i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-7	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether Sweden as a single state will condemn Turkey's intrusion into Syrian territory, whether Sweden as a state and as a member of the UN and the EU will demand that Turkey cease its bombings in Afrin and Rojava Province and whether I will raise in the UN the issue of Turkey's attack on Rojava Province and trespassing on Syrian territory and pursue the line of classifying its actions as a violation of international law. Jabar Amin has asked me whether I intend to initiate a Swedish condemnation of Turkish military aggression against the Afrin region, whether I intend to call for an immediate end to military aggression and to take the initiative for Swedish action within the framework of the EU in order for the EU to condemn the Turkish Government's military aggression and demand an end to it, and whether I intend to act in other ways against the Turkish Government for its repeated violations of international law. Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me whether I am prepared to condemn clearly Turkey's attack on Afrin, whether I and the government are ready to act within the EU and the UN to gather support for calls for Turkey's forces to leave the area immediately, and how I and the government will act to increase humanitarian aid to the Afran population and refugees who have been given refuge there. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. I share the interpellants' deep concern about the situation in Syria and their commitment to compliance with the rules of international law. As for the development in the northern parts of the country, including in Afrinprovin then, where a large part of the inhabitants are Kurds, the situation is very bad. There is a risk that the conflict will escalate and that an already terrible humanitarian situation in Syria will worsen further, that more people will be harmed and that the conditions for a political solution will deteriorate. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the rules of international law are respected both when the right of self-defence is invoked and when acting in the context of an armed conflict. I have repeatedly expressed our concern and criticism with Turkish representatives and highlighted the importance of a credible and inclusive peace process. The situation of the Kurds is a factor affecting the whole region, and a re-launched peace process in Turkey would have positive consequences even across the border with Syria and for the region as a whole. At a UN Security Council meeting on 22 January on the humanitarian situation in Syria and the latest developments in the country, including Afrin, Sweden stressed the importance of de-escalating violence. Sweden also highlighted the importance of full respect for international humanitarian law and the protection of civilians. At the Security Council meeting, Sweden also strongly supported the five-point plan on the emergency humanitarian situation in Syria, which was presented. In the UN Security Council, Sweden, together with Kuwait, has been given special responsibility for the humanitarian situation in Syria. We will continue our efforts for country-wide humanitarian access, full respect for international law and the protection of civilians. Through global flexible core support to key humanitarian organisations, Sweden enables rapid humanitarian response in rapidly emerging crises. Sweden has initially committed SEK 355 million in humanitarian support to the Syria crisis for 2018. The ongoing dialogue between the EU and Turkey will be important in the future. Recently, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, expressed deep concern about developments and a desire to raise the issue with Turkish representatives as a matter of urgency. The EU and Turkey have previously agreed that Syria's future should be based, inter alia, on territorial integrity, national unity and an inclusive society protecting all minorities in a non-Sectarian state. The international community must continue to pursue and create the conditions for a peaceful political solution to the conflict in Syria, in line with Security Council Resolution 2254. Sweden, bilaterally as well as through the EU and the UN, is working towards a political solution to the conflict, a ceasefire and full humanitarian access. Sweden also continues to support the hard work of the UN and Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura for a political solution to the conflict in Syria. It is very serious that Turkey's relations with Kurdish groups continue to deteriorate. Sweden will continue to monitor developments and emphasise the importance of de-escalation of violence, full respect for international law and the protection of civilians.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-20	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Wallström. I regret that we do not get a direct condemnation of the abuse of the people of Afrin. I would have liked to hear here today that a Social Democratic-led government is taking a stand – against the aggressor and for the people who are now being bombed and terrorized by the Turkish military. The Syrian civil war has been going on for many years. It's a cruel and terrible war. The defeat of the Daish/ IS terrorist group is a prerequisite for a peaceful solution in the long term and for coexistence. And they are well on their way to defeat, but this would not have happened without the enormous sacrifices of the Kurds in Syria and Iraq. It wouldn't have been possible without them. It was in Kobane that it turned, with the desperate defence of this Kurdish city. It was the Kurds who saved the civilian population as best they could in Sinjar from Daish's terror. It was Kurdish-led forces that freed al-Raqqa, the self-proclaimed capital of IS terror. Today, under very difficult conditions, the Federation of Northern Syria is trying to build a more democratic society. Hundreds of thousands of refugees have been received. Nowhere else in the region are women's rights as strong as there. Nowhere else do women have so much involvement in the work against terror and for the new society. It seeks to build an alliance between Kurds and Arabs and between Christians and Muslims – what is lacking in many parts of the region. They're trying to organize elections. It is this society, this glimmer of hope, which is now under attack by the Turkish military forces. The question is: do we turn our backs on them, or do we take a stand for those who went only when IS was to be defeated, for those who are trying to build a better future? Silence is also to take a stand. When the world turns away, its back turns to the Kurds in northern Syria, to those who fight there, it gives indirect recognition, an indirect green light to the Turkish power. That is what is happening now. That is what Turkey is using. That is why the Turkish bombers can bomb civilians, villages, refugee camps and cities in Afrin. Turkey has played a dual role vis-à-vis IS, to say the least. They've been passively watching. They've allowed terrorists to join. IS has been able to export its oil via Erdo中an's Turkey. For them it has always been more important to fight the freedom of the Kurds than to take a stand against a terrorist group like Daish. The question then is: what do we do when we see how the increasingly dictatorial regime of Erdo中an in Turkey is trying to crush the aspirations of the Kurds and others for autonomy and freedom in northern Syria? Are we turning our backs on them? Are we taking a stand for those who actually try to build something better? That is what this debate is about. Sweden has a role to play as a nation, as part of the EU and as a country that sits on the UN Security Council. It would be important if Sweden raised its voice and abstained. I wish we could hear here a clear condemnation of Turkey's brutal attack on the Afrin province that we are now seeing. The same men and women who freed al-Raqqa and turned the battle against Daish in Kobane are now fighting desperately against Turkish power. They need the support of the outside world. I have a question for Foreign Minister Wallström. Can the Foreign Minister see any support in international law for Turkey's invasion of northern Syria?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-31	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, which is a statement of humanitarian aid to the refugees in Syria, which is very important. Many news channels in the Middle East report shooting at refugees fleeing the war and fleeing the Turkish border by the forces of the Turkish terror regime. I wonder if the Government knew about this. I do not have a clear and direct answer from the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to condemn the crimes of international law and war crimes committed by Erdo中an. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Will Sweden condemn the attacks of Erdo中an as a violation of international law? Will Sweden pursue this issue in the EU and the UN? Erdo中an has turned his country into a prison. There Kurdish organisations and other minority and socialist organisations, such as HDP and their members and party leaders, are portrayed as terrorists. In order to cover up these crimes, Erdo中an needs a scapegoat. Now that Daish has been driven out of Rojava, and Kurds and other minorities have been able to organise themselves there democratically, the Turkish state has taken its place in Daish's place. The Islamic terrorist regime in Turkey wants to establish a so-called security zone to protect Turkey, it is claimed. So Erdo中an felt safer with Daish as his neighbour than the Kurds in Rojava, Kurdistan. To prevent a popular and democratic Rojava, Turkey has been bombing Afrin for two weeks. Erdo中an describes the organisation YPG as a terrorist organisation and tries to justify terrorist attacks in Syria which are in reality directed against the Kurds and Rojava province. Erdo中an does not want to see a province where Kurdish movements that have been successful in organizing tens of thousands of women in YPG, Peshmerga and other minorities form three democratic cantons. Today, none of the states in the region involved in the conflict in Syria can be regarded as democracies. These include Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and, of course, Syria. All the states surrounding the area should be an independent Kurdistan. They play a bloody game with each other about military and political influence. It's a game where you tie and break alliances when it suits you. The victims end up being the Kurds. Tens of children have been murdered, hundreds of people lost their lives. The Express writes: The images of the dead Syrian-Kurdian guerrilla soldier Barin Kobani awaken the world's disgust. Two macabre films are now distributed online about how her body is desecrated by what is said to be members of the Free Syrian Army. Barin's clothes are torn. Her two breasts are cut off, probably with the FSA members' bayonets. In the macabre video that circulates on the Internet, one hears a soldier from the FSA in Arabic say to his jihadists: She is beautiful. Another steps on her upper body. Barin was not fighting IS this time, but against Turkey, which is supported by the FSA. This is barbaric, and I now want this stopped. I expect Mrs Wallström to do something.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-41	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by holding a minute's silence for all children, all women, all men, all innocent people who have now been murdered in the province of Afrin as a result of the aggression of the Turkish state. Madam President, I would like When the IS terrorists ravaged and were at their worst in Syria last year and the year before, the Kurds in Rojava fought with heroic efforts. All women and men fought for what they believed in and to resist barbarism. With the support of the outside world, they were able to strike back at one of the worst groups in recent decades, namely the IS terrorists in Daish, the Islamic State. All along, these people have fought for freedom and democracy and to minimise the risks to the West and to our country. If IS had won in Syria and in Iraq it could have been dangerous for us in Sweden as well. We know that Erdo中an hates the autonomous area of Rojava. He and his regime have done everything they can to prevent the Kurds from becoming free in any part of Kurdistan. That is why he has now begun a war. On the map I'm showing, you can see Aphrin. One can see that the Turkish state attacks from the north and from the west, while their Islamists – Erdo中anlojala Islamists – attack from the south and from the east. This means that Afrin is surrounded either by terrorists or by state terrorism. This is a violation of international law, that is to say, when a state goes into an area in another country. In the picture I'm showing you, you can see how Erdoa's army is bombing up cities. What we see is civilian people dying here. They're residential areas. I had hoped that the Foreign Minister had said more than that she was concerned. I expect a strong condemnation of all the crimes of international law committed by Mr Erdo中an.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-48	Madam President, I would like Turkey's unprovoked and wrongful assault on Afrin in northern Syria cannot pass without strong reactions from the outside world. Further aggression by the Turkish regime must be stopped. We have a responsibility – yes, we have a duty – to do our utmost to stop ongoing violations of international law, no matter who commits them, and to prevent new crimes. I therefore agree with what the previous speakers have said: the Turkish regime's attack on Afrin must now be strongly condemned. Individual countries such as Sweden, as well as the EU and the UN, must put their foot down – immediately, before more people are killed, injured or forced to flee their homes. Madam President, I would like It is particularly bad that Turkey is attacking the areas governed by the Kurdish-led forces that have made a hero effort for the whole world by successfully fighting Daish. The Turkish state says that it fights terrorists when it attacks Afrin, but what is happening is that those who risked their lives to fight Daish's terrorists – and who have survived, because, unfortunately, many did not – are now exposed to Turkish state terrorism. It gives an extra dimension to the question, an extra dimension of cruelty and betrayal, if the world continues to look at without seriously standing up for these people. It is not good enough for the world to fail these brave people, who have fought so hard and successfully for all of us and paid a terribly high price, now that they need our solidarity. There are simply no excuses for silently watching. The violence of Erdoa must be stopped. I will make a few specific points, but I am sure there are others. All possible measures that could help stop the Turkish regime's violence need to be considered now. A clear condemnation from Sweden has already been mentioned, and we do not need to agree with anyone else to do that. Sweden can also push for condemnation within the EU and the UN. It was bad that France's initiative in the UN Security Council did not lead to an explicit condemnation of Turkish aggression. Sweden supported this initiative, and that was a good thing. As a member of the Security Council, we also have a particularly great responsibility. I wonder whether it might be worth bringing the issue back to the Security Council. And why not call the Turkish ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and make it clear that Sweden finds Turkey's aggression totally unacceptable? I am also thinking of financial sanctions against the leaders responsible in Turkey – not against the Turkish people. Such sanctions are sometimes imposed in the case of crimes of international law. There is no reason why the leaders of the Turkish regime should be treated more lightly than other aggressors. Is there something to think about, perhaps? Sweden's voice is important – if we go ahead, it can inspire more people.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you for all your contributions. First of all, thank you, Jabar Amin, for reminding us who are the victims. In most of today's wars and conflicts, but especially in Syria, women and children are now on the front lines. They're the ones who die. They are innocent civilians, and it is in fact our primary task to reduce suffering and put an end to the war in Syria. That is the most important task. I would also like to thank those who remind us of who, in this case, has been very much of heroes and has actually helped to combat IS. We probably thought that IS would be virtually defeated by now, and that is not yet the case. Much more remains to be done. That is why this attack on the part of Turkey, on the part of everyone, has raised concerns about the fact that violence is escalating. It can prolong the whole war situation, and it can also be very complicated with all the different actors in the conflict. So it's important. No, we haven't been quiet, nor have we been passive. We have been clear in our contacts with Turkish representatives and, of course, we also call on the Turkish ambassador. We've spoken to him. We point out that what is now happening risks exacerbating an already very difficult situation. The situation and the escalating violence are causing even more suffering. Now it is also the case that Sweden always stresses the importance of compliance with the rules of international law. We take every opportunity to emphasise this both in the UN Security Council and in the EU context, as well as in all multilateral fora and also in bilateral contacts. It is very important that we act. In fact, that is precisely why the words are condemning and condemning so far have not been used by either the Security Council or, in fact, any individual country. This is because it has been difficult for a long time to assess developments and to obtain evidence of exactly what has happened on the ground. Of course, we can also see these terrible images and bombardment, but it also needs to be stated exactly what kind of military action it is. Turkey has thus invoked various reasons for intervening in northern Syria. On the one hand, self-defense has been invoked in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter, and on the other hand other reasons have been invoked, such as the fight against terrorism and the desire to establish a so-called security zone on the border between Syria and Turkey. Here, then, political and legal arguments are mixed – now I just describe what is happening – and then both countries and the UN of course have an obligation to investigate whether this is right. Can you really invoke international law, and do you follow it? That is why so many have waited to use a word that is denouncing. So I'm just trying to explain exactly what's going on politically. According to the rules of the United Nations Charter, there is, as you know, a ban on violence. There are two key exceptions to the ban on violence. One is when states act after having been authorised by the UN Security Council, and the other is in precisely Article 51 and states that one state has the right to self-defense against an armed attack. At the same time, self-defence is linked to a number of conditions. Among other things, violence must be necessary and proportionate.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-63	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for the parts of the reply that have been received; it will certainly come more later. Is there any support in international law for Turkey's aggression? I do not think it should be so difficult to establish that Turkey is currently bombing another country. The civilian population is being bombed. We are bombing a region that has not posed any threat to Turkey. It is also not the first time that Kurdish targets have been bombed in northern Syria, but it has happened time and again. I believe that this is the basis for a position. It is the basis for a position against the terror against civilians that is involved – with aerial bombings, artillery shootings and tanks – and against Turkish troops being far inside this area of Syria. I regret that the Swedish Government cannot come forward with the clear condemnation today. I think it's urgent. I think it's an emergency. This is where people suffer and die in Aphrin. What is the reason for this world's flatness towards Erdo中an and Turkey? I think there are several explanations, and one is that Turkey is a NATO country – perhaps the second most important NATO country in military terms. It is no coincidence that no Swedish NATO supporter is involved in this debate; it is silent on the bourgeois side. There we are happy to talk about combating terrorism, but we do not want to criticise a NATO country. There is a political loyalty from NATO supporters and NATO countries that makes it quiet. But the silent gives indirect consent. The second explanation is that Turkey is today being paid by the EU to keep refugees in Turkey. It has put itself in a sort of blackmail situation where it is Erdo中an who can decide whether or not refugees come to Europe, and then the EU is silent. In this situation and with this shameful silence – when Russia, the United States and the EU are silent – it would be extremely important that some countries actually stand up and say: we condemn this. We are on the side of the civilian population, and we are on the side of international law. We condemn this Turkish aggression. Turkey is on its way to dictatorship – it cannot be described in any other way. The most important opposition party, HDP, is about to be crushed. 5,000 HDPs, including party leaders, are in prison. Their so-called crime is to talk about a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question, about women's rights and about social reforms. That is all that is required in Turkey. More than 500 people have been imprisoned because they have expressed support for Afrin and criticism of Turkey, particularly on social media. In Turkey, it is enough today to tweet that it does not like Turkey bombing Aphrin to be imprisoned. That's how bad the situation looks. That is precisely why it is important that there be support for the people who fought against IS, who defeated IS in Kobane and who freed al-Raqqa from the terror that Daish brought. The Kurds have been betrayed by the outside world several times before, and they have often become a pawn in a great power game. But this time, the whole world rejoiced. They have even captured Swedish terrorists who have been beaten for Daish and who are being held in captivity there, who they want to be brought to justice. They have made this dangerous – to fight terrorism – for all of us in the world. The question now is: are we turning our backs on them, or are we taking a stand? As Chairman of the Left Party, I would like Turkey's ambassador to have a substantial repellent and to state clearly that we condemn this attack on the Afrin region. I hope that Sweden will begin to provide more direct humanitarian aid to the Federation of Northern Syria and that Sweden in the UN Security Council will act to put an end to this unjust attack.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-74	Madam President, I would like In the past, Mr Erdo中an has clearly stated, in his own words, that democracy is not the aim. The attack in Rojava is a clarification. It is not the alleged terrorism that is threatening. For Erdo中an, any struggle for democracy is dangerous. The struggle for democracy is dangerous in Rojava. It is also dangerous at home in Turkey – where oppositional HPDs and other outspoken and intellectuals are imprisoned. Sweden and the EU cannot quietly watch when the Erdo中an regime calls all oppositional and Kurds terrorists. For Erdo中an, democracy is a form of terrorism. Madam President, I would like The conflict has also moved to us in Sweden via Erdo中an-supported mosques and organisations. Anadolu Agency reports that young boys in Rinkeby Mosque and elsewhere in Stockholm and Sweden gather to pray for Afrin. So this is Erdo中an's own newspaper. I think this is dangerous. We must stop hatred, propaganda and racism directed at minorities in Sweden and prevent children from brainwashing to becoming jihadists. I got all shaky when I saw this last night. It was sent from Turkey to me. We must now ensure that this terrible propaganda and war do not reach our children in the suburbs. This applies to both Kurdish and Turkish children. They're innocent. It's Erdo中an who's a terrorist. It is his state that terrorizes its own people and the Kurds in Rojava. I think it will also be a problem for us if we do not mark this issue. It is not the first time that racist propaganda against Kurds, Jews and Armenians has been spread. We know that, and we have to stop this. It is also expected that a Swedish foreign policy with feminist elements will support the Kurds, Kurdish women and women in the Middle East, who have fought against barbarism and the bloodthirsty Daish. Who else would stand up for the feminist spirit? In fact, this must happen – especially through you, Margot Wallström, who has fought for women's rights. Kurdish women have expectations. Here are many alevites, Kurds, Turks and Swedes who expect you and we now to do something to stop this. Irregularity must be stopped – we know that. Sweden, the EU and the UN are usually very fast when one country attacks another country, which is important. Why is this not being done with Turkey? Mr Erdo中an himself has said that democracy is not the aim. Instead, the aim is to combat other people and the way in which these people themselves, with popular support from other minorities, create cantons where women, children, young people and others are involved. That's what Erdo中an is after. He wasn't after Daish– we saw for many years how he supported them. After the fight against barbarism, it is now a state that behaves barbaricly against the Kurds. I hope that we will now hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs strongly condemn the Turkish regime's attack.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The Foreign Minister knows that the Afrin district has been one of the few districts in Syria that have been calm and have not been destroyed by the war. There people have been more or less secure, and there the Kurdish population has received hundreds of thousands of refugees from the rest of Syria. But with the attack by Erdo中an, security has also been destroyed in the Aphrin district. What Mr Erdo中an and his regime are now engaged in, Madam President, is nothing more than state terrorism. When civilian targets are bombed, when you go in and attack targets in other countries and when you expose the civilian population to all this suffering, it is terrorism – state terrorism. Unfortunately, Erdo中an has been free to wreak havoc. A few years ago he attacked Iraqi Kurdistan and violated international law there. Two years ago he attacked northern Kurdistan – the Turkish part of Kurdistan. He destroyed city after city and murdered hundreds of innocent people. Now he's attacking the Aphrin district. It is ludicrous to hear Mr Erdo中an and his regime refer to terrorism. If anyone has supported terrorism in the Middle East, it is Erdo中an and his regime – there is very much evidence of this. Parliamentarians in the Turkish Parliament and the Turkish newspapers have one by one shown that Mr Erdo中an has supported IS. The outside world knows this. When Mr Erdo中an and his regime now refer to the fact that people in Afrin – a secure and self-governing area with an inclusive system – would pose a threat to Turkey, we know that this is not true. The main reason for his attack is that he is afraid that the autonomous and inclusive system in Rojava would inspire the Kurds in the northern parts of Kurdistan – that is, the Turkish parts. He wants to destroy the example that is there. I believe that we have enough evidence – that Sweden has enough evidence – to be able to condemn this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs now had the chance to do so, and I am sorry that I was not told that Sweden, which has such a high tailings when it comes to invoking international law, condemns Erdo中an. Time and again, he has attacked the civilian population in various countries – in his own country, in Iraqi Kurdistan and now in the Syrian part of Kurdistan. Saying we don't have any evidence doesn't hold up. I expect and hope that the Foreign Minister condemns the violation of international law by Mr Erdo and his regime.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-97	Madam President, I would like I share the concern that the Erdo aggressors feel that it can escape, as Turkey is a NATO country and there is an agreement between the EU and Turkey on refugees, as well as on non-reactions to past abuses. Mr Amin mentioned some, including the attack within Iraqi Kurdistan, that is, in another country, and also in Turkey, in northern Kurdistan. Erdo 中 the regime began a regular war against several cities in northern Kurdistan in 2015 with killing, captivating and widespread destruction. You can see satellite images of devastated areas in a UN report. As far as I know, the Turkish regime has not suffered any sanctions for this. Turkey has a history of repeated abuses and violations of international law under the rule of Erdo, so it really has to keep up the pressure and resort to all the diplomatic means at its disposal to persuade Turkey to put an end to this type of abuse.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-99	Madam President, I would like I intend to come to the most important conclusion, which I also referred to in my previous speech. First of all, it is not that we have been quiet. Nor have we been passive; on the contrary, we have acted in both the UN and the European Union and continue to influence in those contexts, because we will of course be stronger if we get concerted action from both the European Union and the United Nations. If we do not just want to leave it to the use of the word condemnation, but actually want it to lead to accountability, we must base our arguments on international law. What I had planned and wanted to conclude my previous speech was precisely that, in the case of Operation Olivkvist, the preliminary assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our experts in international law is that Turkey's actions cannot be justified by a reference to the right of self-defence vis-à-vis YPG. We want joint action to be based on international law in both the UN and the EU context. But that does not mean that we are justifying or supporting this offensive. It's something completely different. That is why we have been very clear on what we think on a bilateral basis. No one can accuse Sweden of being a country that does not act. If there is any country that acts humanitarianly in the Syria conflict, that gives money for this and that helps defenders of international law, journalists and free media in Turkey, it is Sweden. That's where our money goes and our support goes. We have a debate here practically every week on the negative developments in democracy in Turkey, so I think no one can say that we have been quiet or have not acted. At this point, the international community wants to base its action on international law in order to be able to demand responsibility in due course. And we are getting stronger, not by shouting alone, but by acting together in the EU and the UN. This issue will remain on the UN agenda. We will contribute to this and continue to point out the concerns we see in all that is happening. Moreover, this offensive makes people wonder who has helped to fight IS, just as all of you speakers and interpellers have pointed out. Sometimes you feel like you're the deputy villain in this case. I do not want to take on that role because I believe that we have acted and expressed very clearly what we think of this development. Right now, like other countries, we want to base our actions on important principles of international law.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Wallström. The Foreign Minister says, and rightly so, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' international legal experts have made the assessment that there is no support in international law for Turkey's attack on Afrin. It is an important conclusion that this is unfair to international law. This also means that there is a very good basis for criticising this abuse on the region of Afrin, and I hope that Sweden will make it loud and loud, clear and clear. There is a proud tradition in Swedish foreign policy of standing up to great powers who abuse smaller regions and countries. To take a stand here, to condemn the attack and to say that we will act in the international context would be to pursue this tradition. We in the Left Party call on the government to do so. There were many who cheered when al-Raqqa was freed. It was longed for all over the world. It was the SDF, the Turkish-led forces, who did it. Women who had been forced to wear a complete veil could rip it off and finally dress as they wanted. People could listen to the music they wanted. Young Yazidian women who were held in sexual slavery could be freed from what they were subjected to. Who was there? Yes, it was the Kurds, the SDF soldiers, who are now fighting the Turkish power in Afrin. The Kurdish woman mentioned here by Amineh Kakabaveh who had been so grossly desecrated, a preschool teacher, was involved in the liberation of al-Raqqa. It is these people who thought they had the support of the outside world that we are now betraying if we turn our backs on them. I believe that it is our job not to do so but to take a clear stand against Turkey's abuse of Afrin.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. 39 years ago, the West supported Ayatollah Khomeini's coming to power. He became the worst tyrant of all time in the Middle East. For some years now, similar support has been given to Erdo中an and Turkey. The fact that the UN Security Council does not clearly condemn Turkey's intrusion into Syria shows a rottenness in the political game. Democracy has very few friends, unfortunately, in some of the countries in the region. The national ethnic and religious minorities, not to mention women, do not have any friends among their regimes. Instead, these are viewed as enemies. Democratic minorities, such as in Rojava, are even more hostile to Erdo The people of Rojava must be protected from the abuses now perpetrated on them. It's a violation of international law. Turkey's attacks have already cost the lives of many people. Sweden must use all possible channels to prevent the war from expanding and lead to an even worse bloodshed. Turkey simply must not do as Daish has done to Rojava and Syria. This must be stopped now. It is in fact an expectation that Sweden and the West will support the women who have fought Daish. Macron has condemned this violation of international law. Sweden can also operate in the UN and the EU.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-116	Madam President, I would like Let me start by telling all the girls and guys, women and men who are fighting in Afrin to resist Turkish aggression that we are proud of you. Madam President, I would like It is good that the Foreign Minister is concerned about the situation. It is good, as it says today in the media, that the visit to Ankara is cancelled, if the task is true that it would be because of criticism from the Swedish side. But much more is needed than that. We need, on the one hand, condemnation and, on the other hand, to work to stop the attack. The more time passes, the more civilians become victims. We can if we want to call home our ambassador from Ankara. That would be a clear political signal. We could, in the European context, initiate a condemnation. There is a lot more we need to do to protect international law, about which we talk so much. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs repeatedly mentions the importance of respect for international law. But it must also be translated into action. We must act when it is violated, and it is gratifying that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has come to the conclusion that Turkey cannot invoke international law. I hope that we can also come to judgment.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-120	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants. This is something that everyone is paying attention, which is visible in the media and which concerns us because we have been following the Syrian war for seven long years. Since the outbreak of the conflict in Syria, the government has stressed the importance of respect for international law and the protection of civilians. We have done everything we could to ensure both that women are at the negotiating table and to contribute to humanitarian efforts, and we will continue to do so. Right now, the humanitarian situation is terrible for millions of people there. We will continue to work for the UN-led peace process and support Staffan de Mistura. We will continue to act multilaterally in order to be as effective as possible, not only in condemning a deed but to ensure that it becomes a accountability. That's why we have international law. One word is not enough. It doesn't change the situation on the ground. We need to change reality, and then we need to have a good basis for it. Since we are calling for these countries to respect international law, we must be able to base what we do on international law ourselves, and our preliminary assessment of the basics of international law is precisely what I said. We continue to act humanitarianly, politically and diplomaticly in every way so that the situation does not escalate, so as to reduce violence, to demand responsibility and hopefully one day to see peace in Syria.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-125	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me how I see the need to secure cash management as part of civil society crisis preparedness. Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the ability to pay in society, even at a time when our electronic payment systems are being shut down. I will answer both questions together. I have already had the opportunity on several occasions in this House to present the work of the government and the state in securing a functioning cash management system throughout the country. It is the government's view that everyone in society should have access to basic payment services at reasonable prices. In the first place, the market should provide these services and the State should monitor its functioning. However, the Government has, for example, ensured that the county administrative boards are entrusted with ensuring access to basic payment services in places where the need is not met by the market. As part of the assignment, the county administrative boards have established payment service agents with the help of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, where you can pay bills, withdraw money or leave day funds. In 2017, there were 36 state-funded payment service providers in the country. I share the description of the importance of strong civilian preparedness in the world in which we live. In the report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021 – 2025, the defence committee emphasises that Sweden's population must be able to maintain basic financial transaction opportunities through access to cash, alternative means of payment or some form of government credit. Under increased preparedness and then ultimately in war, this is particularly important in maintaining the will to defend and the spirit of resistance in society. The defence committee emphasises the importance of the functionality of the financial system for our total defence efforts. In order to maintain the will for defence in society, preparations and planning must be carried out in order to manage alternative means of payment. The government takes these challenges into account in the further design of the total defence. In some forms of crisis, it cannot be excluded that cash may play an important role in maintaining key functions in our society and economy. The Government's 2015 Bill for Defence Policy – Sweden's Defence 2016 – 2020, supported by the Swedish Parliament, stated that, in accordance with the principle of responsibility, the authority or executioner responsible for an operation under normal conditions is also responsible for taking the necessary measures to enable the operation to be conducted even in a crisis situation and in case of increased preparedness. As regards the issue of cash supply, the main responsibility lies with the Riksbank. Following an announcement by the Riksdag, the Government appointed the Parliamentary Committee of the Riksbank in 2016. Among other things, it is tasked with investigating how the Riksbank's responsibility for preparedness in the payment system in the event of peacetime crises and in the event of increased preparedness should be clarified in law. In addition, the committee will consider whether legislation regarding the Riksbank's preparedness responsibility in peacetime crises and in case of increased preparedness needs to be modernised. I think it is important for these issues to be given a broad and in-depth scrutiny and for proposals made in the areas of society's emergency preparedness and civil defence to be made with as broad parliamentary support as possible. The Riksbank Committee shall report its proposals by 31 May 2019. As the responsible minister, I should not prejudice the work of the parliamentary committee.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-137	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. If you have cash for a month, more and more becomes a relevant issue in our society. The defence committee also stressed the other month that every citizen has a responsibility to manage their own livelihood and care for a week without the support of society. There is a broad consensus that we must make Sweden more resilient both civilian and military. Cash management plays a major role here as the risk of an attack on electronic payment makes access to cash more vital. Sweden is one of the countries in Europe that has come the longest with the cashless society. Innovations such as Swish have allowed many small businesses to enter the market. At the same time, we still need cash, and there is a lot of cash in circulation. As long as ATMs and exchange offices provide cash, deposits must also be able to be made smoothly. This is where we see challenges. Here we must succeed in finding a middle ground where we can meet everyone's needs. The payment services market is rapidly evolving as a result of digitalisation. It is not only positive, but also creates problems, not least in rural areas. The county administrative boards in Dalarna, Gävleborg County, Jämtland County and Västerbotten County point out in their so-called monitoring reports that problems can arise with digital payment services, as parts of the counties have insufficient digital infrastructure. This is a known problem. As early as 2014, Christina Rehnberg, the National Coordinator of the County Administrative Board's payment services, commented on this in the following way: a problem stemmed from the fact that it is becoming more and more banks that handle cash, that there are shortcomings in the capacity and deployment of mobile and broadband networks, and that there are people who are being placed outside the digital society for various reasons. In addition, behavioral changes take time. ..................................................... Entrepreneurs I know go over 30 kilometers to buy cash. This will of course be both expensive and time consuming. Above all, it is during the summer months of tourism that this becomes most relevant. An entrepreneur puts it all together, and if you count it all together, it will be more expensive to go and get the money than the money is worth. According to surveys, 90 percent of the Swedish people say that they have used cash in their daily lives in the last month. The idea of a cash-free society I think many can sympathize with. It's not a question of that. But this has gone far too fast, especially in the rural sector. That's also where you're most exposed. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government: how does the Government intend to act in view of the fact that rural traders and individuals are particularly vulnerable to cash handling?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-144	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Last week I had an interpellation debate with the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs on cybersecurity. This is an issue that lies in the same line of thought. What happens on the day the power goes out? We have come a very long way with digitised payment services in Sweden, and we are quite vulnerable when it comes to the power supply for these services. Sweden is today one of the countries that has made the most progress in the development of cashless society, and I think most of us appreciate it very much. You can swish and use your debit card instead of having cash. But it's also very vulnerable. In relation to our neighbours and the world around us, we stand out as an extreme case, although many of us find it very positive. For 50 years, cash management in society has gone from a turnover of around 10 percent to 3 percent. Today, however, there are still 90 billion in cash in society. Just as my colleague, Mrs Quicklund, mentioned, cash management is a problem in rural areas. As long as there is cash to take out at ATMs, that money is used. But the small businessman in the countryside is having a very hard time getting rid of the cash. Cyber security and the threat picture are increasingly marked by the rise in digitalisation. Vulnerability becomes very clear just when it comes to digitalisation. There can be total exclusion if there is a cyberattack that affects power supply and leads to IT and telecommunications failure and other things. In last week's interpellation debate we talked about wind turbines in Sweden, which in many ways do not have passwords, so you can access them. As early as 2007, the Swedish National Audit Office carried out a very good review that is still up to now bearing on the vulnerability that we have in digital services. There we are talking about the need for a long-term strategy for joint exercises and that there should be an official on standby within the financial system. One of my questions is: Is there a TIB, an official on standby, for the financial functions of society? This report also stated that authorities should complement their emergency plans with measures needed to interact with other actors that could help to increase preparedness in the payment system. I share the view expressed by the Minister in his interpellation response: the market has a great responsibility, but of course there is also a need for responsibility from the state. That is my second question, and I would also like an answer to that. So the questions are: is there today an official on standby in the financial sector? What overall responsibility does the government have to ensure that cash handling functions in the event of a major interruption?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-151	Madam President, I would like I thank both Saila Quicklund and Lotta Finstorp for important questions. We are in a great transformation of our society, a digitalisation that affects not only the financial market but our whole society. It is important to constantly highlight perspectives on how this change affects different parts of society's functions and our preparedness for the future. Since there are two different issues, both about the impact on our society today in peacetime, when everything runs on as usual, and about what happens in a crisis situation or even a state of war, I also thought of sharing the answers a little bit. We start with the development of our society, for example in rural areas. How can we ensure that we can manage both deposits and withdrawals throughout the country? As the authors point out, progress has been rapid. It is largely demand driven, which is also important. There is a strong demand for digital payment solutions and financial services. For many people in our society, this has meant a much easier everyday life. Personally, I am very happy to be able to do banking at any time from my computer instead of having to stand in line in the bank before noon. 15, which previous generations have had to do. It is clear that it also allows for many new services that would otherwise not have been in question. For example, the development of fintech, the financial technology, is progressing very quickly. Much of this is positive. But when there is a major transformation of society, such as the one that is now taking place, there will of course also be problems that we need to solve along the way. For example, vulnerable consumer groups are, of course, a question that we need to find a way to deal with. It is also the case that basic payment services and a financial system should be available throughout the country. There we have taken action in the form of payment service agents. We have supervision from our county boards and the opportunity to go in with efforts with funding from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. We have also had a number of round tables with all stakeholders, both government agencies and banks, in order to find ways forward. Here it is important to point out that different banks in a market characterised by free competition have seen a little differently on these issues. There are banking chains that have more cash management. As a consumer, of course, you have the opportunity to choose the bank that you think meets your requirements as a customer best. If you think that cash handling is important, in many cases you have the opportunity to choose a bank that meets the requirements you make. But this is a question that we have reason to follow all the time. Not least, the Parliamentary Riksbank Committee has been given the government's mandate – which is also based on an announcement from the Riksdag – to dig deep into these issues, because these are complex issues. This is not something that we should throw out proposals for casually, but rather a fairly deep degree of reflection is needed to find measures that work. I would now like to say something about the management of crisis and war. This is an area where the government has put in a significantly higher gear and where I also find that there is strong support, partly from our authorities responsible for the defence of the country in crisis situations and war situations, and partly here in the Swedish parliament. The government has told our authorities that we need to be much better prepared to cope with disruptions in our society in crisis. This also applies, of course, to the financial sector. Here the authorities have taken great steps forward. For example, cooperation is increased, including with the Swedish Armed Forces, in order to ensure that important functions are maintained even in crisis situations and in times of war. There have been training courses. They have participated in exercises to be able to handle this in a good way. It analyses the responsibilities of the authorities in order to ensure that they are well prepared and appoints those specifically responsible for development. We have, of course, begun this work, but it is a work that takes a long time to build up. Preparedness takes a long time to build up. Unfortunately, it can quickly be destroyed. This is a work that we need to continue with in the long term.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-160	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The defence committee notes that the development has increased vulnerability to long-term power outages and falling electronic communications. After all, the financial system depends on both electricity supply and functioning electronic communications. We know that. In addition, the infrastructure is a target for enemies before and during an armed attack. This means that we need to plan and prepare for how we ensure that the basic functions of the financial system work even if there is a lack of electricity and electronic communications. The defence committee also notes three things today: It is serious and must be taken into account. The national system is used today to handle the manual back-up routines. However, they are very limited, staff-intensive and also take a long time to implement. In addition, it takes a long time to restore the system after a break. Should there be a cash shortage or if confidence in the domestic currency is damaged, foreign currency cash, such as the dollar or the euro, will often be used as alternative means of payment. It is also common to trade on credit, if there is trust between buyer and seller, or barter. The defence committee stresses in its report that Sweden's population must have the conditions to maintain basic financial transaction opportunities through access to cash, alternative means of payment or some form of government credit. Since the use of cash has declined so quickly in the last decade, the Swedish Defence Committee also believes that the population must be informed of how long it is expected to last without means of payment that depend on the functioning of electricity supply or electronic communications. My questions to the Government are: How much of the information has come out to the common man? What do we make of that? How much of it has really come to an end? How will the information reach the country's population? Now it is most we initiated who have knowledge, although the issues are beginning to come to a greater extent. The defence committee made it clear that the population must be informed of how long it is expected to last without means of payment that depend on electricity supply and electronic communications. What's the plan? What is the time perspective?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-170	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister for Finance says that the government has now put in a higher gear. It was really needed. As the last country in the EU, Sweden has adopted a cyber and information security strategy. It is good that it is in place, but it has taken a very long time. According to the FRA, Sweden is exposed to around 10,000 state-sanctioned cyber activities a month. It is also argued that threats increase in strength and extent. So far, we have probably been rather inconspicuous about this and how we need to secure – and only one such thing as the payment services in society. There are many other things that can be knocked out. But here it is a matter of people not being able to act because there is no place where they can pay with Swish, for example, because the current is no longer there. It is a growing threat and a problem which affects the common man in a very tangible way. Both FRA, Must and Säpo express in their annual reports that there are major deficiencies in Sweden's cyber security. It is precisely this that will affect the common people. It is urgent to secure our systems. It is good that an investigation has been set up, and we look forward to it coming into place. I hope that we are not overtaken even more than we have already been. I have a question. How long can the electronic payment system stay down without it having a significant impact on society? Is there an opinion? Maybe it'll come to the investigation later. I can only guess. But I don't think it can be down for very long until it affects us very much and very negatively. The defence committee has, as our colleague Saila Quicklund says, produced very clear wordings about the financial system and total defence. It states that the Riksbank has minimised its own stockholding of notes and coins and that the government relies heavily on a few private actors. It's a little bit like the minister says in the answer. The private actors will provide us with and handle cash in society. I think that is quite right, absolutely. It's about the day it's a threat to the state. It can be such a banal thing, if you may say so, as the power supply is being shut down. Then we're really in trouble. There is also no legal requirement for banks to handle cash or mandatory legal requirements for traders like in many other countries to receive cash payments. In Stockholm in particular, many smaller companies, cafés and so on no longer accept cash for many different reasons. It costs to deposit the cash at the bank. But they also see it from a robbery perspective. That is absolutely understandable. We are proud that we have come a long way in digitalized payment solutions. But we also see the threat picture if the power goes out and the vulnerability. It is important to be able to work in two arenas at the same time, and it is a bit an art to balance it. I think most of us want people to switch to digital solutions. But we see the great vulnerability. I would like the Minister to answer me, if it is possible to answer the question: how long can electronic payment systems stay down without it having a major impact on society?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-181	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me put the question in perspective. Although we have seen a rapid reduction in the use of cash in our society, there is no indication that we are in one or even at a rapid pace on the road to a cashless society. On the contrary, the Riksbank has just issued a new series of notes and coins. This is almost a sign that we will retain cash in society for the foreseeable future. It is important to point out that although it can be seen quite quickly how vulnerable electronic systems can be, cash management also contains certain elements of vulnerability. One might imagine that it is easy to change notes and coins between private individuals or perhaps in a local store or similar. But the questioners have also considered that cash must be transported. It is not always that the cash is evenly distributed. Sometimes there are too many in one place and too few in another place. The whole structure must be managed and managed even in a crisis or war situation. We have to remember that one of the reasons why cash has decreased is that there have been quite a lot of problems with cash management. When I grew up it was almost everyday with, for example, robbery of cash transports. It is a problem that has been reduced quite radically. To some extent it is driven for health and safety reasons. For example, public transport here in Stockholm cannot use cash. This is mainly because the drivers were simply vulnerable to robbery risks and sometimes got very bad. There are strong reasons on both sides on this issue. It is therefore important that we allow the matter to be dealt with in the best possible order. I would prefer to see as broad a parliamentary commitment as possible behind it. Therefore, it is an important answer to be able to point out the Parliamentary Committee of the Riksbank where representatives of all parties are present. There you should look at, among other things, the question that Lotta Finstorp highlights about legal requirements for cash. Would it be possible to draw up legislation that captures the problem and corrects it properly? Norway is usually highlighted as an example. There's a law there. Even in Norway we see the emergence of bank accounts without cash handling. Possibly, it is not as easy as it is thought to find legislation that is right in that case. Saila Quicklund highlights the issue of information. It is incredibly important that we as citizens should be informed about what is expected of us and how we can protect ourselves. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has been tasked with increasing the dissemination of information to the public. During the spring it will produce a national information material and present it already next month in March. In the spring, better information will also be provided to us citizens on how we can protect ourselves. For example, what supplies do we need at home? It is also possible that the cash issue will be covered in that case. Lotta Finstorp asks me how long society can last without digital payment solutions. I have no detailed knowledge of that. However, I know that the irritation from us consumers is growing very quickly. It is enough that we cannot get a payment to go through in order for frustration to grow rapidly. It is clear that it also increases vulnerability in the sense that the trust that we need, especially in a crisis situation, is eroded quite quickly when important social functions fail. The important thing for me is that we have to work broadly on the issue. Of course, we need to protect our digital payment solutions, ensure that they are robust and that they are able to withstand crisis situations. They must be capable of being redundant. If it should fall through in a way, try to find another system to ensure that they are maintained. We must also prepare ourselves more broadly to cope with crisis and war situations. This work is now going on at full speed in all our agencies, and in particular in the 46 agencies specifically identified in this important task.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-192	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an issue that I believe will increase in importance. There are more and more questions, and it is important that we have a great deal of clarity in this regard. Otherwise, it creates even greater concern among people. It is felt that we want to take part in this, and that is why we have made the amendments. The cash handling issue has two parts. I live in a rural county and understand the importance of ensuring cash management. When I hear business representatives express this, they say that it is very expensive for them. There are also expectations that the private will resolve the situation. It is tough for a small entrepreneur to stand up to the banks in such a matter or otherwise. This is a shared responsibility in which society, not least the government, has a great responsibility to review it. This responsibility is also expressed in terms of taking on, and I am pleased about that. The conditions are also very different in rural areas, with better or worse broadband expansion and mobile coverage. The second aspect that we have debated today is that we must make Sweden more resilient, both civilian and military. Here, too, the issue of cash handling comes up, and it will play a major role as the risk of an attack on electronic payment means that access to cash will become a vital issue. I, and a lot of people with me, think this is important. I will follow the work of the government on this issue. Perhaps we will have reason to meet again in a similar debate.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an important debate. As my colleague, Mrs Quicklund, says, we will certainly meet further on these issues. The defense committee stresses that you have to work more in guttering than in gutter pipes in terms of total defense. This particular issue is one. We need to get a cybersecurity that's worth the name and where we feel safe. Both civilian preparedness and the Swedish Armed Forces' preparedness must be taken into account. The work of the Defence Committee and the documentation refer, among other things, to total defence planning in the financial sector, which must include, for example, relevant war placements. CIT and banking personnel must be involved in the work of the total defence in trying to secure this both on the civilian side and on the defence side. The Swedish cash management report 2014, to which the Minister referred earlier, deals a great deal with the cash management chain. With new payment solutions, there must be a good chain in society that provides cash for banks, businesses and staff alike, if you have to use it. There is very good in the report. I read a review by Svenska Dagbladet that showed that if the Riksbank were to be subjected to a cyberattack, the consequences could be devastating not only for individuals but for the whole of Sweden as a nation. That is exactly what we are discussing here. We have a senselessness in Sweden. We do not believe that we will be affected by this, and that is why we have not been properly prepared either. But how do we, private individuals and small businesses, really need to prepare ourselves? What does the Minister think about this? Should we have cash at home so that it lasts a month, or what will it look like?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-202	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank you for a valuable debate on an important issue, on which we have every reason to continue to discuss and to try to find solutions. How can society increase its robustness? How can we manage to secure the most important functions of society when we are exposed to disturbances, pressures or, in the worst case, aggressions from other countries or parties? It is an extensive work in which we need to consider in depth how we can ensure that we have the ability to resist interference. This also applies, of course, to the financial sector with financial functions and services and also to payment services. It is an issue where the government is already working intensively and where we will continue to work intensively in the future. Sometimes, at least initially, it is easier to show challenges and problems that need to be solved, but the answers also sometimes require quite a lot of time and also expert knowledge to penetrate the depth and find the right solutions. That is why I think it is important and, of course, that we continue to discuss and debate and try to come up with solutions. But in the end it is those whom our parties have appointed and who sit on the Riksbank Committee, and who have solid expert support from the authorities and from other experts in society, who also have to come up with the final proposals. The Riksbank Committee will make its proposal as early as next year, so it is not very long for us to wait for it. It will look at how payment functions and cash management work today, in peacetime, but also at the possibilities of a robust, secured system that works even if we are affected by various forms of disruption. I hope that the Moderates will record suggestions and thoughts and engage in the work of the Committee in the future, because it is an incredibly important piece of work. The government will continue to work on this issue. Not only will we wait for the Riksbank Committee, but we will also be committed to ensuring that the overall level of preparedness in society is increased.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-208	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I take in the performance of my duties to shorten the processing times for surveying on individual roads. In his question, Lars Beckman refers, among other things, to a concrete proposal with simplifications in order to speed up and reduce the costs of changing share rates in common facilities. This refers to the proposal submitted by the National Association of Individual Roads (REV) to the Government regarding the possibility for joint societies to change the percentages of the properties that are part of the joint facility that the association manages. Legislation on common facilities has been simplified by 2015. However, with regard to regulatory changes, it is important that these not only contribute to greater efficiency but also maintain legal certainty. Only last October, the Government of Fritzon has answered a question from Lars Beckman's party colleague Cecilia Widegren, which concerns the REV's proposal and the objections raised against it. However, the problem of Lantmäteriet's long processing times in property building operations cannot be addressed only with amended legislation. I would like to stress that achieving the objective of reasonable processing times will require a much broader approach and more measures than that. The government has taken and continues to take a series of such measures to address Lantmäteriet's long processing times. I have replied to this only in August and November last year to Lars Beckman's party colleagues Sten Bergheden and Jan R Andersson. In its regulation letter for 2018, Lantmäteriet was commissioned to further develop its accounting and analysis of processing times both for the municipal surveying authorities and the state surveying authority. These are a first step towards measuring the impact of various measures and, where necessary, prioritising and taking further action. The assignments are based on Statskontoret's report from the Government mission to evaluate the organisation of property formation and more. Statskontoret's other proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. On 13 December 2017, the Government appointed Susanne Ås Sivborg as the new Director General of Lantmäteriet. Earlier this year, the Government has also strengthened Lantmäteriet's management by appointing four new Board members, including a new Chairman of the Board. The new Director General took up his post on 1 January this year and it is the Government's assessment that she, together with the renewed Board, is in a position to take a holistic approach to Lantmäteriet and its property development activities to meet the challenges facing the agency. I will continue to monitor the evolution of processing times and the impact of measures taken. If the measures taken by Lantmäteriet and the Government do not prove to be sufficient, I will further tighten the requirements for the Authority to reduce processing times.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-214	Madam President, I would like We will have two interpellation debates today about Lantmäteriet. They are not as hot as the one about the wood stove rebellion that my colleague Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin will debate with the Government later, but this issue is important. This is about the community's basic service. This is about the opportunities to live and live in rural areas and to run businesses in rural areas. I have travelled around my home county, Gävleborg County, and in the rest of Sweden, and I have met both small businesses and others who are deeply concerned about Lantmäteriet's processing times and the consequences of them. When it comes to individual roads – this is what the Government knows, but perhaps not the one who sees this debate – the vast majority of Sweden's road network is just individual roads. It is a total of 44 000 km, of which only 7 800 km are granted state aid. Then I think about what the Government says about preparing questions within the Government Office. From the answer it seems that the view of the picture that I have given is shared by the fact that it is a problem with long processing times. I saw that in January 2018, 2,000 road services were held by the State Surveying Board for processing. Approximately 1 100 executions are completed each year. This means, then, that much more is needed for these issues to be resolved. What you get curious about – it is possible that the Government has saved the information for its next speech – is when the government will do something. When will the simplifications be made? When will the issue be resolved so that there are not 2 000 proceedings waiting? Just as the Government says in its reply, the National Association of Individual Roads with 12 000 road associations as members – 2 million property owners have a share in individual roads – has stated that the legislation does not work and that changes are needed. It would be interesting to know when the government will stop preparing questions and instead make concrete proposals.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-221	Madam President, I would like I am the first to agree that long processing times at Lantmäteriet are a problem. That was one of the first questions I started working on when I took office just over a year and a half ago. Things have happened. We have replaced most of the board at Lantmäteriet and have a new chairman and a new Director General who took office as late as 1 January this year. Surely we have to say that these are measures. Then we have also made demands of Lantmäteriet through the regulations. There are a number of different requirements and assignments that Lantmäteriet has received over the past year, and they have also started to respond properly to them. But we should also remember that it's not the whole Lantmäteriet we're talking about. There are parts within the authority that do not have long processing times and that should not be postponed in these matters. But there are some things, and these include building, which take far too long. This is, of course, partly due to the fact that today we are building much more than we did before. It is also a question of a lack of competence because for a long time too few new officials have been trained in this field. The issue of competence is not so easy to deal with quickly. We from the government have contributed to the start of new surveying courses, including in Uppsala. This will eventually contribute to solutions, but in the short term this issue needs to be addressed within Lantmäteriet's organisation through efficiency improvements and changes that can contribute to shorter processing times. With regard to the issue of individual roads, a change in legislation may probably have a limited effect. It is possible that it could contribute to efficiency efficiency. I agree with that. However, as Minister Fritzon has said earlier, we also need to look at the issues of legal certainty in connection with this. In concrete terms, this task is not within my remit, and I cannot make any other assessment than that of the Ministry of Justice on this matter.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-227	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think it is important to take this issue very seriously. It thus affects 2 million property owners. There are concrete proposals. Now this is becoming a bit technical, but it is really about the road associations being able to decide for themselves on percentages. It would be a concrete change of rules that would work very well. This legislation currently exists in the area of right-of-occupancy associations where members have that right. There is therefore no foreign legislation to be brought forward, but this could very well be done. In the answer given by the Government here in his first speech, he spoke about the other proposals now being prepared within the Government Office. It is clear that many, probably not least the 2 million property owners, are curious about when the government will come up with those proposals. And what are the concrete issues that the Government sees as being prepared and most appropriate to present? I think that would be an extremely valuable message to all those affected by these issues.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-231	Madam President, I would like For my part, I can say that we have a continuous dialogue with Lantmäteriet. Right now, we are waiting for the new Director General, together with his board, to draw up a plan for how to work systematically to reduce the processing times of the agency. The new Director-General will have to be given a little more than a few weeks to develop that plan, but it will come soon. The proposals and the working methods and paths agreed between the new Board and the Director-General are closest to what I am referring to on this issue. Then there may be legislation that is primarily prepared within the Ministry of Justice, and we may also come up with things there. But I believe that this broader approach within Lantmäteriet and how to organise oneself, i.e. how to use the expertise to make better use of it within the organisation and how to organise yourself in general, are the most important issues to ensure that the agency becomes more efficient and faster in its handling in the future.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-234	Madam President, I would like The efficiency of Lantmäteriet will be discussed in the next interpellation debate. I would therefore ask you to come back to that. Now it is a question of individual roads and the 2 million property owners who today have to wait a very long time to get the percentages distributed. There is legislation that works well in the area of right-of-occupancy. It would be important to introduce a simplification reform which gives all road associations the right to decide for themselves on percentages. The National Association of Individual Roads has made a concrete and very good proposal from which the government could relatively quickly and easily investigate and develop a measure for concrete efficiency improvement. It would relieve Lantmäteriet. Such a proposal and law could lead to an acceleration of all matters at Lantmäteriet. Is the Government prepared to press for such legislation?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-237	Madam President, I would like It is good if we can bring forward amended legislation that simplifies and streamlines the work. This is one such proposal. I thank Lars Beckman for raising the issue. I agree that it is not insignificant. However, the objections that have been raised about legal certainty for shareholders, in practice minority shareholders, in associations must also be taken seriously. It's a matter of business. You have to take advantage of their interests when making such a change. That is why it has not been possible to resolve the matter quickly. I hope, however, that we will be able to move forward on this issue in the future too.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-240	Madam President, I would like Now we will instead discuss the long processing times at Lantmäteriet. Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to remedy precisely the long processing times at Lantmäteriet, and when. He has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to make it easier for individual municipalities, such as the municipality of Ljusdal, to set up their own municipal surveying authority in order to shorten the length of the proceedings. So this is a discussion about the same thing, but from a different perspective. As far as Lars Beckman's first question is concerned, I replied only in January, November and August last year to the questions of his fellow party colleagues John Widegren, Jan R Andersson and Sten Bergheden. In view of the short time since I answered these questions, I can, at least in part, refer to the answers I have given in the past. With regard to Lars Beckman's second question, I answered a corresponding question from him last May. I then explained, among other things, how an application for a municipal surveying authority is handled and that the examination of one is done on a legal basis. In January 2017, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate how the organisation of property formation in a state surveying authority and a number of municipal surveying authorities operate according to the requirements of a uniform, legally secure and effective property formation. The assignment was finalized on October 31, 2017. In the final report, Statskontoret notes, among other things, that the split headship – that there is both a state surveying organisation and in a number of municipalities such – means that resources are not used efficiently in a situation where the supply of skills is a challenge for the entire building development process throughout Sweden. Statskontoret's assessment is that the lack of especially experienced surveyors and competition for staff has contributed to Lantmäteriet's long processing times. Against this background, it seems highly doubtful that it would be possible to shorten the processing times by facilitating the establishment of individual municipalities' own land surveying authorities. It can be the opposite, i.e. it gets worse for everyone. The proposals put forward by Statskontoret in its report, which we have recently received, are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The Government and Lantmäteriet have taken a number of measures to address Lantmäteriet's long processing times. Both the Government and Lantmäteriet continue to monitor the development of processing times and the impact of measures taken. If they do not prove sufficient, I will further tighten the requirements for the Agency to shorten the processing times.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-247	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. This debate relates to the previous one. On the small job and business tour that I did last year in the municipalities of Gävleborg, I met the municipal management in Ljusdal and the moderate chairman of the municipal board Lars Molin. We talked of course about what is important for the countryside and for a municipal management in a municipality in northern Hälsingland. We talked about the consequences of double employers' charges for young people, about the increase in petrol and diesel taxes, about the risks to electricity supply, about the introduction of kilometre taxes, about narrowing down and road safety and reduced resources for road maintenance. But we also talked about government services. Many entrepreneurs and residents of Ljusdal contact the municipality and say that it is not reasonable for it to take several years to cut off land in Ljusdal. It hinders the development of society. Therefore, Ljusdal Municipality submitted an application to the government to make its own municipal surveying authority. I know that Falun, Höganäs, Malung-Sälen, Vetlanda and Ängelholm also did so. Unfortunately, they have been rejected, which is unfortunate. I googled yesterday before this interpellation debate and wrote: processing time Lantmäteriverket. From the meetings you get, you can see the municipality after the municipality that criticizes the government. You can read on the Agricultural page about an entrepreneur who has contacted Lantmäteriet and asked why it would take so long. According to the article, the surveyor replied: ..................................................... I therefore believe, unlike the Government, that a certain form of competition in this area could very well speed up the processing times. In particular, local municipalities would be advised to influence their own social development. An inland municipality like Ljusdal has enough problems with deportation and depopulation, with the Swedish Transport Administration extinguishing the lights, with Telia removing the copper network or with the Swedish Transport Administration turning an asphalt road into a gravel road. Besides, aren't they supposed to be able to get community service? I got a number from an administrator at Ljusdal Municipality. He said it would take between one and two years for such a case to be dealt with today. One year, it's only in a pile of paper. And then it takes another year for the work to be done. It is not enough for us to stand in this House and think that this is a problem. Concrete measures must be taken. One concrete measure could be that the municipality of Ljusdal and all the other municipalities that I just listed had to set up its own departments for municipal property formation. Madam President, I would like It would be interesting to hear the basic explanation for denying municipalities the right to consult on these issues.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-255	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for the same answer regarding Lantmäteriet and the possibilities for managing that activity. I do not know how many times we have had debates on this. Every time the Minister lands in following this closely. There is a shortage of staff, but progress is being monitored. Somewhere we have to realise that it is almost four years, and the only thing that the government and the Minister have done in the meantime is to follow developments. We have not seen any improvements on these points, even though neither companies, road associations nor others can have their shares and extensions completed because there are no staff and the work is not carried out by our own authority. Surely the Minister must now come up with something more concrete. This isn't gonna last any longer. It is not enough simply to follow developments, but now the regulatory framework needs to be simplified. I assume that the Minister has studied what has been done in Finland to make it easier, among other things, for road communities to make their own decisions in order to move forward. If you do not have staff, you should surely be able to look at how to make it easier for the current staff in order to speed up the handling of cases. When you want to build or do other things in society today, it is the government, the minister and our authorities that are slowing down development. I would like to hear a little more concrete about what will happen after this than just what the Minister says: I follow developments.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-259	Madam President, I would like I think it would be good if Sten Bergheden listened to the answer. I haven't said at all that I'm just following developments. It is rarely that an issue has created such a rapid and great change as this one has done. We've replaced most of the board. We have appointed a new Chairman of the Board and a new Director General. The main task that we from the department have entrusted to the newly appointed is to get the processing times in order. That is the overall big question. The new Director-General took office on 1 January. I am waiting for the new entrant to present a systematic plan on how to reduce the processing times in the near future and to deal with this important issue. Over the past year, we have given a number of assignments to Lantmäteriet to shorten processing times, change the organisation, make reporting more efficient, clearer and simpler. That is the background and explanation I can give. We are now talking about municipal surveying authorities. There is nothing to suggest that this would lead to faster procedures, on the contrary. I commissioned Statskontoret to conduct an investigation into the organisation. Rather, it argues that the greater the number of municipal surveying organisations, the worse overall management will be, the longer the processing times will be. It will be a double job with both a municipal and a state activity. There will hardly be any competition, which Lars Beckman was concerned about, on the contrary. The resources will then be used less efficiently. This cannot be an important task. Especially in small and medium-sized municipalities, it is not so smart if a municipality takes over the organisation and surveyors in the area, while the municipalities around it have to settle for what remains. Other surveyors will then run the state survey. Nor is it that the municipal surveying organisation is always so much faster. It varies quite a lot.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-265	Madam President, I would like I will admit that I am a great and warm supporter of municipal self-government. I am a great and warm supporter of the municipalities having a sense of discretion over their own situation. That is precisely why I have listened to what the municipal executives say, for example in Ljusdal municipality. I am absolutely convinced that Ljusdal municipality does not want to set up the municipal surveying authority to make it worse for the municipal citizens of Ljusdal. On the contrary, I am absolutely convinced that the municipal leadership of Ljusdal and Ljusdal municipality officials want to do so so that it will be better and faster for the inhabitants of Ljusdal. It is exactly the same way that you want to do in Falun, Höganäs, Malung-Sälen, Vetlanda and Ängelholm. The advantages of setting up municipal surveying authorities, highlighted by the municipalities, are that the planning, building and building process can be simplified and shortened. It is also estimated that it wants closeness to decision-makers. The Government is of course well aware that the Lantmäteriverket left Ljusdal municipality. They shut down their office there and moved out of there. The state withdrew from Hälsingland, which has had almost disastrous consequences. The same is said by the local councillor, Hans Unander – Social-Democrat – to P4. He's in a state of despair over the lack of public service. The same is said by Eva Cooper from the Entrepreneurs who wrote about this in January. You can read page up and page down about this. One may perhaps understand that this problem will not be resolved until the new moderate-led alliance government is in place. It is possible to take action, for example, to allow the municipalities that want to run this business to take over – this in order to shorten the processing times. Then I can understand that a state monopoly organisation is not in favour of it. Of course, we in this House are not representatives of the authorities, but we are representatives of the citizens. Citizens deserve to shorten waiting times. In Malung there is a very large and expansive expansion, and I understand that it is a huge obstacle when the processing times amount to years instead of months. I reacted to a sentence in the reply saying: Only in May did I answer a corresponding question. It's been a very long time since then. In the entrepreneurial world it is a long time, it is possible that there is a short time in politics. But it is not for an entrepreneurial world or for a municipality that sees opportunities for expansion and business development. But it's just slow and slow. I find it unfortunate that the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government rejects these municipalities' desire to be able to influence their own social development. Just like Sten Bergheden, I would have liked to have had a little more action and a little more concrete proposals that will actually reduce the processing times. At the end of the day, rural development is hampered by the long duration of proceedings.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-275	Madam President, I would like Of course, I understand from the Minister's answer that the idea is that if the municipalities themselves had to take care of some of the responsibility, it would be different in Sweden. Some of the municipalities would work faster while others worked with the government, the minister and Lantmäteriet, and then it would take a little longer. It is understood that the Minister wants it to be equal for everyone, in this case equally bad for everyone. That is a bit of a pity given that there are industrial properties and other things that want to expand. They don't get their plots measured and don't get any further. They call us MPs and wonder what we should do about this. I usually refer to the fact that the Minister is closely following developments. They don't usually be really happy with that answer, but they want you to do something more. In my last speech, I asked: Has the Minister looked at what has been done in Finland? It has made it easier in terms of roads and such things. There has been a request from road consensuals that they themselves be able to take over part of the participation procedure and thus have easier management. One thing is the budget and the government of Lantmäteriet, another is the management of Lantmäteriet. It's been replaced by the minister. But we still have the great tool left, namely the simplification of the rules. When you see that there are major problems and that you want to expand, you could look at other countries. Then the question is again: Why do you not review the rules and make sure that you can facilitate some things in order for the handling to go faster, whether it is the municipalities or the Lantmäteriet that manages these parts? Again: Has the Minister studied the example of Finland?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-280	Madam President, I would like The issue that Sten Bergheden is now raising was discussed just now in the previous interpellation debate. I don't know if we're gonna take it all one more time, or what exactly are you looking for? About 15 minutes ago, I said we've been looking at this. I can well imagine making such a change. It is good if we can get simplifications in and remove rules that are unnecessarily aggravating in order to increase efficiency. However, there is one issue that has not yet been clearly dealt with and which concerns legal certainty, as the Ministry of Justice has highlighted. To some extent, we must respect this and let the matter be dealt with before making changes. Otherwise, I think the question presented by Lars Beckman and Sten Bergheden is an illusion. When you pretend that you have solved the problem if you just let the municipalities take care of it themselves, you have not really understood the problem. In a lot, this is about a shortage of surveyors and a lack of competence around Sweden. The very strange organisation that we have, where there are, on the one hand, 30 to 40 municipal surveyories, and, on the other hand, a state organization for the same activity, is not effective as it works today. It is possible that it would be more effective to leave the whole of the activity to municipal authorities, at least for the larger municipalities. They can afford to pay more and perhaps have surveyors living with them. But for many of the small municipalities this would undoubtedly be a disaster. There are staff shortages in Sweden today. We need to resolve the issue of competence in the long term in order to overcome the problem. I also believe that Lantmäteriet can be more effective. In the short term, it is definitely not a solution to abolish the State Land Survey and believe that the municipalities themselves can solve the issue. This may be a solution for the larger municipalities, but for the small ones it would be a disaster.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-285	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government and I have two completely different views. I believe in local self-government and that rural municipalities need to be advised of their own situation. Municipalities around Sweden, regardless of party colour, criticise the fact that the state surveying activities are not working well. This harms social development and entrepreneurship, and it causes major problems. I respect the fact that we have different views on this issue. The Green Party believes in large-scaleness and clearly believes in another solution. I don't. I believe that the municipalities will own their situation. So far, I haven't heard anyone say, we have a shortage of dentists in Folktandvården, so that's why we're going to ban private dentists. There is no point, and there is no such concrete proposal. However, on the issue we are now discussing, rhetoric seems to be just that way. I certainly believe that better and more rapid management can be achieved if the municipalities are advised on this issue. That's what it's all about. When the Entrepreneurs have ranked and rated different authorities, Lantmäteriet unfortunately receives a very low rating. It received a rating of 2, 9, which is lower than average for the other authorities in the Entrepreneurial Authority ranking 2017. What you complain about is long processing times and expensive costs. It may not be surprising that monopolistic activities easily end up in precisely that. Madam President, I would like I very much hope that the Government will come up with concrete things that will shorten the processing times.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-290	Madam President, I would like I believe in decentralisation and municipal self-government, and I probably do it much more than Lars Beckman does. I have been working on this issue here in Parliament for many years. But I don't believe it at all. For example, I do not think it was so successful with railway undertakings which own different small parts of the railway network and do not have a coherent organisation for this. There are other examples of organisations that work better if it is coherent and if you see it as a whole. Lantmäteriet is today a business that requires a lot of development work. The agency is in a digitalization phase that requires large investments and investments based on a common picture. This cannot be done by small municipal units. Perhaps one or two surveyors can be employed. Then you can hardly start large projects that cost 10 or 100 million SEK to change systems, for example. We need a common organisation for some of the state's activities. This is one of those where a common organisation is needed if we are to keep up with developments and be at the forefront. Lantmäteriet is very strong in a number of areas. They are good and are well advanced internationally in, for example, geodata and other things. It is wrong to say that Lantmäteriet is generally a bad and inefficient organisation, because that is not the case. However, there are parts that do not work as they should. This applies, for example, to the processing times for buildings. We're working hard on all of this. There is a new management that we are now counting on to deal with these problems.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-295	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me if I am behind the regulations now announced by Boverket. The Boverket has decided that stricter requirements for solid fuel boilers and local space heaters will apply from 1 July 2018. The strengthened rules have their background in the EU Ecodesign Directive, which sets out requirements for solid fuel boilers and local space heaters. These requirements shall be in force by 2020 and 2022 respectively. The requirements of the Directive are due to the fact that all wood burning causes certain emissions of environmentally and health-related air pollutants. The combustion process produces particles, oxides of nitrogen and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. These cause problems in the airways and cardiovascular system and can cause cancer. Children and people with asthma or allergy are particularly sensitive. Work on developing the requirements of the Ecodesign Directive has been going on for many years and various proposals have been presented and evaluated. There is now an Ecodesign Regulation with legal requirements to apply from 1 January 2020. As the requirements have been known for several years and several countries, such as Norway, Denmark and Germany, have preceded and brought forward their tightening up of the requirements, this has led to the fact that today there is a wide range of products on the market that meet the new requirements. The new stoves have better efficiency, are more efficient and require less wood. A modern stove that meets EU ecodesign requirements emits up to 80-90% less harmful substances than older stoves. Boverket's requirements apply when someone new installs a stove or wood stove. Cable ovens and fireplaces are completely excluded. Existing stoves are also not affected by the regulation. When installing a stove in an existing building, Boverket's amendment rules must be applied, and the level of requirements will be assessed taking into account the building's conditions. Since the life span of wood boilers and local space heaters is long and the replacement rate is low, it is important that the equipment that is now being installed has as low emissions as possible. Being able to burn wood in stoves and stoves is often an important security, especially in rural areas. If you burn correctly, it can also serve as a complement to other heating systems. It is therefore not a question of banning wood stoves, but of ensuring that new stoves and wood stoves are as efficient and environmentally friendly as possible. Finally, I would like to inform you that Boverket's tightening up of the requirements for newly installed wood-fired boilers and space heaters is fully in line with the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal to reduce the emissions from wood burning, for which there is a broad political agreement that all parties in the preparation are behind, i.e. the alliance parties.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-302	Madam President, I would like For me, this is a typical example of what happens when governments and authorities turn their eyes from real social problems and start to come up with their own. The Boverket crusade against wood stoves, stoves and tile ovens is a typical example of this. It makes me sad that both Boverket and the Minister for Housing are slipping on the truth about what this will actually mean. The Minister for Housing says in his reply that existing stoves are not affected. This is really only half the truth. It is true that existing stoves currently installed in a house are not affected as long as they are installed. At the same time, Boverket writes that a relatively extensive trade in used stoves is ongoing. That trade is being made impossible. To say then that existing stoves are not affected is a direct lie. All of a sudden, those who want to use the important cultural heritage in the form of older stoves and wood stoves are knocked away. Studies carried out in Norway, for example, show that most older models of cast iron stoves and wood stoves have almost as good combustion values as CE approved wood stoves, if properly managed. This regulation is a way to displace the existing stoves in order to promote new sales of wood stoves, which can cost 30 000 – 40 000 SEK. This is an extremely unwise policy. The Minister of Housing delivers yet another half a truth when he says that it will be possible to install an old stove in an existing house. This is not true either. Boverket's own report states that anyone who wants to put a new stove or wood stove in a building that already has a wall block but has chosen to pick out the wood stove or stove sometime, for example during a renovation, because it is considered to be out-of-date ends up at the requirements levels for new installation. The Boverket thus goes with untruth when it is said that reinstallation will be possible. You say yourself that it should be considered a new installation, and then we are in the new regulatory framework that will apply on 1 July. This is irresponsible by a government which, on the other hand, says that we need to increase civil society's emergency preparedness and strengthen the robustness of crises. At the same time, one only looks at when an authority develops such a regulatory framework, which will in fact make it difficult or impossible to install old stoves in houses that today already have a wall block that is not used. I think that we in this House should encourage rather than prevent this, and I hope that the Minister for Housing is prepared to change his mind on this issue.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-308	Madam President, I would like In December, the Defence Committee made its statement that we can no longer be sure that we can avoid war – I do not remember the exact wording. It was a very serious report. I then ordered a report from Parliament's investigation service, RUT; it has not been published yet. I asked what the legislation looks like in Norway, because I had heard that Norway has legislation that requires secondary heat sources for emergency reasons. That is also, quite rightly, what the RUT report says. A whole series of authorities in Norway stress the importance for Norwegian households of a secondary heat source for preparedness reasons. One should be able to withstand a longer power outage and a crisis or war situation. I was very surprised when I read in the middle days that a Swedish authority is launching a campaign against something that in Norway is an essential part of civilian preparedness; at first I almost thought it was a joke. When I read, I began to understand that it really is that way. My grandmother in Överkalix, who fires in her wood stove, is now viewed by a government authority as an environmental villain. In fact, it had been wished that Boverket had been given a government commission by the Environmental Party to ensure that all households in Sweden obtain a secondary heat source such as a wood stove. We should also investigate how multi-residential buildings may have secondary sources of heat, for emergency reasons. It is of course deeply disturbing when there is a longer power outage, no matter where it happens – in Hälsingland, Jämtland or Norrbotten. I saw that it was a cold record in Norrbotten, where I also grew up. I think Peter Eriksson flies up to Luleå sometimes, takes the car to Kalix and fires in his stove. If there is a longer power outage, it is of course essential that I can burn in a stove, but this does not solve the cooking problem. It can be solved with a wood stove, where I can cook my food. I would therefore have liked the government to have started a crusade against those households that do not have secondary sources of heat, instead of assigning an authority to start a crusade against those who actually have a better situation in crisis or war than those who do not have a wood stove or a stove. I am pleased that my colleague Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has raised this question so that we in Parliament can discuss the serious situation that it would entail if fewer households had secondary heat sources.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-314	Madam President, I would like I am contributing additional fuel to this fire-caught debate. There are two things I'm reacting to. One is what the two previous speakers have mentioned, namely reasons for preparedness. But there is one more thing that I think should also concern an environmental minister. We often talk about having a small-scale energy supply and local production in different ways in other contexts. It can hardly be more small-scale and environmentally friendly than burning wood from your own forest. I miss that a little bit in this discussion. I would like to hear from the Minister that he actually sees a value in taking advantage of residual products. It cannot be the case that rice and waste should be collected in the forest and only driven to large facilities, but it must also be able to be used to be independent of energy supply in general, as is the case on many farms in the country. Then I am fully aware that this debate contains a lot of exaggerations and misunderstandings. This may be because Boverket has been out cycling a lot with its information. This lack of clarity actually hurts. Now there is a picture in society that politics wants to counteract wood stoves and wood stoves. There is also a picture that we want to combat tile ovens and fireplaces, even though there are exceptions there. But all of this is because both the government and the authority have been terribly unclear. Now I would like a very clear signal from the Minister that there is no political interest either today or in the future in combating fire with wood in Sweden.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-319	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an account of how Boverket has worked! What I miss in this is: What has the Minister done specifically to try to save our old stoves and stoves in the country? Nevertheless, there must be a value in the fact that what is made can be reused. It's about genuinely elaborate things – it's often very nice stoves and stoves that exist. It is clear that there is a value in us being able to reuse them and put them in other houses in the area when they are demolished and rebuilt. It is clear that there is a recycling value and a security value in this. What has the Minister done to try to save the remaining stoves and stoves? Reasonable level of emissions in all honour, but Sweden is one of Europe's largest and most sparsely populated countries. Of course, there may be problems if there is a concentration of wood burning in cities, but the situation is quite different for those living in rural and sparsely populated areas. Now we are removing wood stoves and wood stoves. I'm a little worried about the environmental party's entire energy policy, actually. It starts with big visions of decommissioning nuclear power in Sweden. Then small hydropower has been attacked. It is now being tried to punish completely. As the last is the battle against wood stoves and stoves in Sweden. If the Green Party continues that line, it will be very cold in Sweden with the Green Party in the government.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-323	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking you for the commitment of the Moderates. This is the first time, I think, that I see a broad set-up for renewable energy on the part of the Moderates. This is a positive trend. I also like that we get a discussion about taking advantage of local resources around Sweden on farms and in villages. But one must also respect the fact that there is a health issue, especially in towns and cities: if many people burn, especially in an inefficient and wrong way, there will be health problems. However, I live far out in the countryside. It is hardly a health issue when I or others in the country burn with firewood. That is why I agree with Jan Ericson and would urge people to have an opportunity to burn wood in the cottage or the house where they live. It's a security. I have experienced negative 47 degrees in Veniksel in Norrbotten. Then you are happy if there is a tiled stove, wood stove or stove that you can burn in that you can get the house warm with or supplement the heating with. Either it doesn't work to keep the heat with the electrical system, or at such times it becomes insanely expensive to run the heating in such a way. I am definitely in favour of having a safe and secure opportunity to burn wood in the countryside. It's important that it's still there. That is why I have also made sure to stop the proposal for a scrapping premium that Boverket came up with. I don't think it was well thought out. We need wood burning from the point of view of preparedness and because it is simply good that, when it gets cold or when the current goes, we have the opportunity to supplement and burn with wood. Anyone who fires often and not only needs wood burning in a crisis situation, however, I would recommend buying a modern stove, because they are often much more efficient. You may only need half or a third as much wood to get the same heat and efficiency as with the old wood stoves that I have experienced. They were often very ineffective. You have to stand there and feed them small sticks practically all the time to keep the fire alive. So there are things that can get better. The Ecodesign Directive has, I would say, been a positive step in the sense that it has helped us to have more and more efficient wood boilers and wood stoves across Europe. Similarly, there have been demands from the European Union for more energy efficient vacuum cleaners or other attritions, it is reasonable that we are also a little smarter when we burn with wood. I want you to know that I am entirely in favour of such an operation. But I don't think we should go with untruths. To Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, it would be good if you too stick to the truth.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-330	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Housing will be happy to specify which part of my petition does not correspond with the truth. As I said, I quoted from Boverket's report, which states that when it comes to installation in an existing building, there is often a need for new installation. It is Boverket who says this. I welcome the Minister for Housing's stated attitude towards wood burning. I have no reason to believe that he is not genuine with the personal experiences he has of cold and wood burning. The problem here seems to be that the Minister for Housing does not seem to be fully aware of what directives have been given from his own department to Boverket. The Boverket itself says that this is done on the basis of the directives given by the Ministry of Industry. It was on the basis of those directives that the proposal for a scrapping premium would have cost EUR 5 billion to implement. It is welcome that the Minister for Housing is backing away from this, but of course it would have been best if we had avoided it from the outset. But the scrapping premium is really only half the problem. The major problem remains, namely the new rules which enter into force on 1 July. No one is questioning that you should have reasonable demands when building a new house, but do not break our cultural heritage by banning the new installation of old wood stoves! This is what happens when it becomes difficult or impossible to put them in old houses that have previously had a wall block but where the stove or stove has been torn out over the years and where people are now working to restore and restore the building and strengthen their own emergency preparedness. The government wants to take this puck? Do we want to give Boverket new directives and make sure that the regulation that comes into force on 1 July is amended so that the exemption is increased and that it actually becomes an exception for re-installation? As Boverket has formulated itself now, in practice it does not. Possibly some individual K-labelled houses could be excluded. But in practice they say: When installing in the existing building, the requirements levels end up at the same level as in the case of new installation. That means, Peter Eriksson, that it will be impossible to install an old wood stove. The Green Party often beats its chest and talks about life cycle analysis, that is, looking at the overall environmental impact of something. Let us consider what the environmental footprint is for a 200-year-old stove. It is a stove that has been used for 200 years, since the ore was broken and after the stove was ingot. I think it is unreasonable that these stoves should now be disposed of, which is what Boverket itself says it wants to create incentives for. Sure, it is welcome that the Minister for Housing backs on that point. But make sure to change the rules too! As things stand right now, it will lead to old wood stoves losing their value and being forced to the landfill, and that is bad from a life cycle perspective.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-335	Madam President, I would like What is the social problem here? Well, the social problem is that a large number of households lack secondary heat sources. A large number of households in Sweden will not be able to heat their homes if the current runs. A large number of households will not be able to cook, for they do not have a wood stove. What we wish, of course, is that the Green Party and the Social Democrats had sent a clear signal to their authority, the Boverket, saying: We must get more households to acquire secondary heat sources. This is the problem of society. What are the questions: What are the steering signals that have gone from the Green Party to its state authority when one makes the attempt to start a crusade against the important emergency function that wood stoves and secondary heat sources have at all? I saw an interview with one of the agency's representatives. The representative said something like this: Yes, we must obey the Ministry of Industry, so we have done as they said. I find it very gratifying and clarifying that Peter Eriksson now clearly talks about how important wood burning is and how important it is that households can manage even when it gets cold. I myself have been sitting with my relatives in Överkalix when it was minus 38 degrees and the power went out. Then it was great to be able to burn and fantastically good to get heat and even better to be able to cook on the wood stove. I would like the government and the Green Party to launch a crusade for secondary heat sources – for preparedness reasons and in view of crisis situations and a possible war situation. May Gud forbid that it happens, but if it happens, households will be able to do better.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-340	Madam President, I would like I must first say that I was very surprised when Peter Eriksson rallied that Moderates were here discussing small-scale energy supplies. In view of all the debates I have heard my colleagues hold in this House on small-scale hydropower, this is hardly the first time that the Minister sees us in this role. I'd like to link some of that to the scrap money again. I am very curious about who took the initiative to Boverket's completely hairy proposal: to spend 5 billion of taxpayers' money to tear out existing stoves from the houses and scrap them. Who can think of such an idea? Does the minister mean that it is Boverket itself that has made this up, or does it come from the department? That's what we need to get out of here. Who has come up with this completely grotesque idea? I would like an answer to that. Then I want to relate a little bit to the life cycle analysis, which several have been involved in, and sustainability. It is very easy as an environmental party to talk about sustainability. But when it comes to the wood stoves, you're out of your league. If you get a lot of forest waste in your own forest, as I have for example, it is no problem if it takes a little more wood. Buying a new stove just to get higher efficiency is quite uninteresting when you burn up your own forest waste. That analysis doesn't make sense. Then it will be more as Lars Beckman points out. To scrap facilities is to promote a buying-and-slit-and-slip society instead of promoting sustainability, which the Green Party usually talks about in other contexts. Actually, I'm not really getting this together. Then I can understand that it's great if you're going to buy a brand new stove. But, Minister, what happens in the future? Can the Minister promise that there will be no further proposals to combat wood stoves and firewood?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-345	Madam President, I would like It is clear that with the decision proposed by the government, our old stoves and stoves in the countryside have lost their value. So there will be scrap of this in view of the fact that it cannot be reused in another house. You can use it during the time that it still stands in the house. But I still have not received an answer from the Minister to the question: what has the Minister done specifically to save our stoves and stoves? I think it is good that the Minister nevertheless admits that this is not about environmental reasons in rural areas. It really has nothing to do with the environment. It is possible to refer to communities and cities. I think it is a good idea to reverse this position. In rural areas, we may need this in a completely different way. There are wires and other things that don't work. It's trees falling. And there will be power outages in a completely different way. Of course, it is good that the Minister sees that rural areas need this. But then comes the next step. What has the Minister done to exempt the countryside and these stoves, so that we can still use them and install them further in the next generation house? What is the Minister doing specifically to ensure that we get these exceptions? In essence, I believe that the Minister sees it as reasonable that we could obtain some kind of derogation in this part. Then I would like to hear: how does the Minister intend to work concretely to actually produce some exceptions? This debate will not, of course, stop; it will continue into the electoral movement, given what is being done to the rest of the countryside. I have a little advice, Mr. Secretary.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-349	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think it is getting closer to a situation where there is a little more sensible reasoning. It may have been loud in the past, and misunderstandings have dominated. In addition to being clear, I would like to say that I am in favour of burning wood and using effective stoves and also having it as a preparedness and security. I would also like to say that there is no crusade against wood burning in Sweden. For example, tile ovens have been completely excluded. There was one point Mr Bohlin made earlier. He thought it was a big problem with the tile ovens. He brought them into this. There is no such question. The stoves are not on this issue, they are on the stoves and stoves. On the issue of new installations or replacing old ones, I can say that it is often possible to renovate older stoves and stoves and make them more efficient. I do not agree at all with Jan Ericson that it does not matter in rural areas whether you burn effectively with wood or not. When my grandmother was home in the days after she milked the cows, she stood in the kitchen and could constantly feed sticks into the kitchen stove. Today, there is rarely a housewife who can afford to feed sticks every ten minutes. Modern wood stoves keep the fire a little longer. They're more effective. They give more heat. They work better to cook on. I don't think that's something you should ignore. That's a good thing. One reason why Boverket started this now is that both Norway and Denmark have introduced these rules from the Ecodesign Directive. It was discovered that many of the old, bad stoves came to Sweden and were installed here instead. It will be quite problematic if we instead of installing new, effective and less hazardous stoves where they are used a lot use old bad from Norway. I do not really agree that that was not a problem, because enough there was a problem in essence. However, I think it is reasonable – as is the case with the new rules – that the existing stoves and stoves should continue to be used as long as they work. Therefore, it is also wrong to say that the old stoves that exist in hundreds of thousands in cottages around Sweden would in some way be threatened. This is not the case, but they may continue to burn as long as anyone wants and can. When you replace your stove or stove, you can replace it with an equivalent one, says Boverket. I think their communication in this has not been very strong and clear. I agree with that criticism, and I think the best thing would be if Boverket came out with new, clearer rules on what will apply even when replacing stoves. I hope that with this discussion we can resolve some of the misunderstandings that have arisen because of a lack of clarity from Boverket and also put an end to the discussion that we want to put a stop to wood burning in Sweden. That is not the case, and that will not be the case in the future either, I hope.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-357	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Housing stands here and sends out fog curtains when he says that one can indeed renovate an old stove so that it will be okay to use. This is not the case at all, because the whole new regulation is based on the type approval of the stove. But an old stove will not be type approved just because you renovate it, even if it would then keep the same performance as a new stove. In practice, therefore, it becomes impossible to install an old stove as a private person according to the new installation requirements, simply because you cannot prove for yourself what combustion value the stove or stove has with less than that you first install it and then carry out your own measurements to substantiate your claim. This will in fact be impossible, so I would appreciate it if the Minister for Housing did not come up with such misleading explanations. I note that the Minister for Housing is trying to hold two positions at the same time. On the one hand, he says that existing stoves are not affected, which is correct as long as the existing stove is installed somewhere. On the other hand, Boverket also notes that there is an extensive trade of used stoves, something that becomes impossible because it is not possible to insert old stoves and wood stoves in houses that have a wall block but that lack a stove or a stove, because Boverket writes in its report that the requirements then end up at the same level as for new installation. This is what Boverket itself writes, and the Minister for Housing is the person in the government who has the opportunity to make sure that this changes before 1 July.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-361	Madam President, I would like It will be possible to renovate old stoves. The Boverket will come out with clearer rules. There has been a miscommunication, and I think what Boverket has written has been unclear and partly contradictory. But it will be clearer. That's my answer. It is reasonable for us to take responsibility for it from a political point of view and ensure that there need be no misunderstandings in the future. I also think that all of us involved in this debate have a certain responsibility to ensure that we do not fool people and do not make misunderstandings that we know to be wrong. That is why I would like to end this debate by saying that there will be no reason to be concerned that there will be no further burning of wood in Sweden. During my 30 years in the Green Party, the party has never made such a decision. We have never pursued such a line, and I do not think we will. On the contrary, we are in favour of people taking care of their self-sufficiency in rural areas by using and using local resources so that houses and local communities function as well as possible. To all people around Sweden: Please continue to burn with wood, and do so in an efficient way! It is possible to burn in a bad way too, but it is possible to learn online how to do the right thing.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-365	Madam President, I would like Andreas Carlson has asked me what measures the government intends to take to prevent the Migration Board from spreading derogatory and incorrect information about the Swedish free church movement. Andreas Carlson refers to a formulation in a decision by the Migration Board, where two Swedish free churches are called sects. Like the other administrative authorities in Sweden, the Finnish Immigration Service is an independent authority. With regard to the individual decision, I may refer to the Migration Agency. The Finnish Immigration Service has stated that the wording is unhappy. The Finnish Immigration Service has drawn up a code of conduct that addresses, among other things, respectful treatment. Decision-making by the Finnish Immigration Service must be of high legal quality and be predictable and uniform for all applicants. The Authority's continuous work on quality monitoring is an important tool for detecting any shortcomings and for taking measures to address them. I assume that this will also happen in these matters. The Finnish Immigration Service has previously organised training courses aimed at staff in the asylum examination together with the Swedish Christian Council. The Finnish Immigration Service and the Christian Council of Sweden have an ongoing dialogue about continued cooperation.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It was the Day newspaper that on January 26 revealed that the Migration Board had rejected the asylum application from an Iranian family who converted to Christianity. The family has been active in the Equmenia Church in Borgstena and in the Pentecostal Church in Borås. In the expulsion decision, the Finnish Immigration Service writes that there are two different sects. The Equmenia Church and the Pentecostal Church are two of Sweden's largest free churches. To be labeled by a Swedish authority as sects is, first of all, completely wrong; secondly, extremely ignorant and, thirdly, derogatory. In the Swedish Free Church movement, which is a key part of our civil society, large voluntary contributions are made every week. We saw this not least during the refugee crisis in 2015, but it is a work that is constantly going on. The role of free churches in our democracy cannot be overestimated. Of course, reading that you are a cult is provocative for all those who have engaged themselves. In its reply, the Government says that the Finnish Immigration Service has drawn up a code of conduct that addresses, among other things, respectful treatment. It really feels like a hygiene requirement for Swedish authorities! What measures does the government intend to take to follow up this code of conduct and prevent misinformation from being disseminated about the Swedish free church movement? Like the Government, I have noted that the Migration Agency has stated that the wording is unhappy. However, the fact that the Migration Board has been able to express itself in a judgment like this is proof that there is a need for further knowledge about religion on the authority. We Christian Democrats have long been pushing for greater understanding of the importance of religion in the lives of many people and for society. The Migration Board must have greater knowledge of religion, what it means to convert, and what dangers and risks it can bring to the individual. It is clear that the Migration Agency must prioritise that work, but for that to happen the government must point out that this is important. This can be done, for example, through the regulatory letter. There is a need for a standardised process for how to handle conve rsi ons matters, and those of the Migration Agency's administrators working with this category of investigations also need more training. The most recent training, Madam President, on this subject was in 2013. Since then, as you know, the Migration Agency has received many new employees. The Government prioritises the issue of asylum seekers who invoke LGBTQ grounds as a basis for obtaining a high level of residence permits. That's good. However, we must remember that the question of asylum seekers who have converted is of the same nature, which is why it is reasonable for both groups to be put on an equal footing. That is so to say the same kind of question. This is a major problem, but despite this, the Migration Board has not included Christian converts in the annual report, either under the chapter Equal Treatment or under the chapter Legal Opinions. My call to the Government is to use the tool that the government has, namely the letter of regulation. When the Christian Democrats were in the alliance government, we were the driving force to commission the Migration Agency, via the letter of regulation, to further develop the competence regarding religious affiliation. The problem has clearly become bigger since then. Yet the government chooses not to use the tool the government has but ducks. I'd like an explanation on that.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-379	Madam President, I would like The interpellant has asked me a question about a specific decision by the Migration Agency – not a judgment but a decision. I am prevented from commenting on individual positions, but I believe that both I and the interpellant have clearly noted that the Migration Agency has expressed that it is an unfortunate formulation. So we can put the specific matter a little aside. However, the Interpellation gives me an opportunity to develop the question of the governance documents that the Migration Agency has from the Government and the Riksdag and has developed for myself to make decisions from outside. I am thinking of the Finnish Immigration Service's collective value base, which is based on the common values that apply to all government employees. It is actually a summary of what the agency should strive for, how you want to be perceived and what is expected of the staff. There are three guiding words that I think capture much of what the interpellier is asking for. The first word is empathy. Empathetic means that the authority and its staff want to understand what they encounter and their situation. The second word is clarity. This includes the concrete, correct and professional expression of the staff. The third word in the foundation of values represents what the authority does, namely courage. Courage is that you are prepared to break patterns, to rethink and think new. In addition to this value base, the Finnish Immigration Service also has a clear zero tolerance in terms of racism, discrimination, harassment, discrimination and bullying, and the agency must counteract any tendency towards such behaviour. The Finnish Immigration Service has regular contact and dialogue with religious communities to gain knowledge of people who invoke – either in connection with conversion or in connection with the application – religious reasons. There is also training for new administrators to address these issues. On the question of conversion, there is also a statement, a practice ruling, from the Migration Court of Appeal. It clarifies the direction in which it can be demonstrated that it is a genuine personal religious belief, and an overall assessment must be made of the circumstances in which conversion has taken place. It is clear that it calls for extra attention to the issue of credibility when conversion takes place after arriving in the country.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-387	Madam President, I would like I respect the fact that the Government cannot speak on individual matters, but unfortunately this does not seem to be an isolated event. We receive regular reports that detailed and, in this context, irrelevant questions have been addressed to asylum seekers on the basis of their conversion. This is despite the fact that on the Migration Agency's website, the following is written: a process and a shift from one conviction to another is the most important thing investigated by the Migration Board, not what one can do about the Bible. ..................................................... However, a quality follow-up of the investigation methodology carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service from January this year in cases where conversion is invoked notes that nearly one in five cases in the follow-up contained very detailed questions about the Bible and faith or even unnecessarily detailed questions about difficult subjects. It also shows that in one case the applicant was also expected to be able to make in-depth comparisons between different orientations of Christianity. When the applicant was unable to explain these complex questions, this was turned against him or her in an assessment of reliability. The individual administrator's attitude and knowledge are, of course, crucial in order to be able to make a legally certain assessment. The Finnish Immigration Service's website also shows that there are no standard questions or templates. Again, the follow-up states that in cases where detailed questions are asked, these appear to have been formulated by the individual investigator himself. Then I think it is of the utmost importance that the person investigating has the right competence in religion. The Migration Board stresses the importance of competence in religion and what it means to convert from one religion to another. It's extremely important. In view of this, I think it is crucial that the individual administrator has the right training and knowledge relevant to the decisions. The quality follow-up also shows that the Migration Agency, together with the Swedish Christian Council, has on two occasions carried out training for asylum personnel in, among other things, investigation methodology. The last opportunity, 2013, is now several years ago. Since then, the work has received many new employees, and these have not taken part in the training. It may be justified to carry out some kind of training effort to reduce the risk of unnecessarily detailed knowledge issues. You can sit back and be calm considering what is on the Migration Agency's website. But I think this points to what I raised in my opening question, namely why the government has not identified this as a priority area to work with through the regulatory letter. I have respect for not picking up on individual matters, but the Christian Democrats were in a position of government in highlighting the importance of knowledge on such crucial issues through the regulation letter. The example that is why I have raised the interpellation, all other examples and the Migration Agency's own analysis of this major problem really points out that the government needs to clarify these issues in the regulation letter. I therefore wonder why the Government is not prepared to do so.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-393	Madam President, I would like There are clear wordings on the part of the government on quality and legal certainty. I have presented here from the speaker's chair the work on the Migration Agency's core values. Like all other government agencies, the Finnish Immigration Service has high demands on competence and practice in human resources policy issues. In the case of the Finnish Immigration Service, these are very special circumstances. Since 2015, Sweden has been the recipient of the highest number of asylum seekers per capita in Europe, and it has placed enormous demands on the Migration Agency. The work has significantly increased staffing. Now we are going to a new time with a lower number of asylum seekers and fewer cases to investigate, which means that the mission of the Migration Agency is now very much about reducing the number of employees. This year we are talking about 3 000 employees. With regard to the very question of how a conversion goes to and what questions are asked, I agree with the interpellant, and what you have found on the website is correct. It is not a Bible knowledge that should be asked for, but two things. The individual, the asylum seeker, is the one who has the burden of proof. It is that person who is to make his identity and his reasons for protection probable, that is, even a reason for protection that has a religious expression as its basis. The Authority has its duty, namely the duty to investigate – that the investigation be carried out in a professional manner. This makes every asylum matter unique and should be handled from that context. In such an investigation, such a conversation, there should of course be a lot of different kinds of questions. The concrete thing I want to point out is that the Migration Agency uses the guidelines available from the UNHCR as an example of what questions can be asked by administrators and decision-makers. I would also like to emphasise the cooperation and dialogue that the Migration Agency has with the Christian Council of Sweden. I do not know today whether this will result in further joint commitments in the field of education. In that case, the Finnish Immigration Service will have to return to that. But I think it is important and good that this dialogue should be conducted.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-400	Madam President, I would like This is not a question of whether or not the Finnish Immigration Service should make an assessment of individual asylum seekers' protection reasons; of course, the Finnish Immigration Service will do so. Nor is it a question of the criteria to be met for asylum seekers to be granted a residence permit on the basis of their conversion. What is at issue is that asylum assessments should be carried out legally and in the most accurate manner possible. We are seeing several signs here today that it is flawed. We see it in this very example – one can call it the sect issue. We also draw that conclusion from all the contacts we have with people who testify to unreasonable questions raised during asylum interviews. I understand the intervention of the Government in this debate as being in favour of more education on the importance of religion for the individual and on the impact of the conversion. Therefore, I wonder what prevents the government from showing that it is prioritising this issue and giving the Migration Agency a mandate via the regulation letter. What prevents the government from doing so?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-403	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Andreas Carlson for the interpellation, which is limited in its substance but which covers, in principle, an important and urgent area of investigation for protection reasons. Just as the interpeller has underlined, it is a long-term sustainable and legally secure asylum process. This presupposes that we have an efficient and high-quality operation. The frequency of changes in the courts can be said to be a benchmark for how the work is carried out. It may be a change of decision but also the additional facts in the investigation itself that change the position. Here it has commuted over the years between 5 and 10 percent. We stand for last year at 8%. So these are not remarkable deviations, but are followed roughly by those levels. With regard to the concrete question of religious reasons and conversions, this is in many ways part of the overall mission of the Finnish Immigration Service from the government. I believe that the measures taken by the government to improve efficiency, shorten processing times and improve the examination of asylum cases are the ones that the work needs and has needed up to now. Otherwise, we'll have to get back to you.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-407	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative to change the regulatory framework for driving licences and driving licences so that individual assessment is always carried out for those who are treated with insulin and who have or have applied for higher qualifications. He has also asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative to change the current regulatory framework so that modern forms of treatment and aids are taken into account to a greater extent when driving licences are to be tested. Let me begin by making it clear that I am not taking a stand on this case. I have a great deal of sympathy for the frustration that those affected by the withdrawal of driving licences may feel, especially when it affects their professional lives. But just as Johan Hultberg himself says, it is also extremely important to protect road safety. The EU driving licence directive, which Sweden must comply with, contains medical requirements for driving licences. As a general rule, insulin treatment is an obstacle to the possession of higher driving licences – i.e. for heavy goods vehicles or buses – or taxi drivers' identification. However, the driving licence directive provides that, in exceptional cases, higher driving licences may be held. In Sweden, the Swedish Transport Agency is the authority that prescribes in detail the traffic medical requirements. The Swedish Transport Agency has in its regulations and general advice on medical requirements for the possession of driving licences and more chosen to make use of this possibility of exemption for insulin-treated diabetes type 2, where it can usually be granted possession. The Swedish Transport Agency may also, after an individual examination, grant exemptions from the fact that type 1 diabetes is an obstacle to the possession of higher driving licences and taxi driver's identification. This also applies to diabetes of the type called LADA, which Johan Hultberg mentions in his example. Exemptions are granted mainly during the first years of this type of diabetes and where the risk can be measured using blood tests for C-peptide. The individual examination requested by Johan Hultberg is therefore made at an exemption application. As regards the use of modern technology, the Swedish Transport Agency is following developments in this area with great interest. The ability to have a continuous measurement of the blood glucose – and the dose of an insulin pump linked to it – is appealing. An evaluation of whether such systems effectively prevent severe hypoglycaemia was carried out by the Swedish Agency for Medical and Social Evaluation in 2013. There was no support at the time for such systems to function well enough. As a result of amendments to the driving licence directive, the Swedish Transport Agency introduced some facilitations regarding the possession of lower driving licence ratings for diabetes. For higher qualifications, the Swedish Transport Agency plans to review the current regulatory framework for driving licences in diabetes during this year, in relation to both the driving licence directive and the scientific situation. My starting point is that the Swedish Transport Agency's expertise continuously evaluates the medical driving licence requirements on the basis of an international analysis that takes into account most factors, including changes in the driving licence directive and in technical development. I am therefore not intending to take any further steps to change the regulatory framework at this stage.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-414	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Sweden is really at the forefront of road safety work. We'll be very happy about that. Road safety work is based on, to say the least, a high ambition in Sweden, namely the zero vision, which stipulates that we should try to ensure that no human being is killed or seriously injured in traffic. Since the autumn 1997 Parliament decided on the zero vision, we have seen a very positive development. The number of fatalities in traffic has almost halved from 500 people to about 270 people per year, as it is now. There are, of course, many actions that underpin this positive development. Not least, it is about innovations and improvements in the physical traffic environment, such as central railings, road safety cameras and what is now in practically every place with self-respect, namely roundabouts. An important part of the road safety work is also about the high demands that we in Sweden place on both the vehicles that are in traffic and us that are in front of these vehicles. The basic requirements of the Driving Licence Act, which states that driving licences may only be granted to those who, based on their personal and medical circumstances, can be considered suitable as drivers, are good, even of course. The problems I highlight in my interpellation concern the way in which this horizontal legislation is translated into regulations and general advice and how these are then applied by the responsible authorities. I believe that the rules and applications are often too flat and general and do not allow for proper individual trials. This affects not least the group of diabetics. For diabetics it is, as the Minister says, that the Swedish Transport Agency's regulations contain a general ban on people with insulin-treated diabetes to hold higher driving licences or taxi identification. As the Minister said, you can get an exception in type 2 diabetes if you meet requirements to have good control of your blood sugar and have the ability to feel the warning signs that come before you get a hypoglycemia, that is, an acute low blood sugar. The Minister also said that a person with type 1 diabetes can, on an individual basis, be granted an exemption if he requests an exemption and undergoes an exemption procedure. Unfortunately, the Minister's answer sounds better than it really is. In practice, the Swedish Transport Agency says no to all those exemption applications. I've really tried to dig into this matter. Through the contacts I have had with, among other things, the Swedish Transport Agency, I have come to life that the exemptions granted are of a very limited nature. These are people who, for example, work on car testing and are allowed to drive vehicles in and out of the test room or do a brake test. It's about people who work at a truck center and get to transport a truck in and out of a laundry. But it is not a question of someone having been given the opportunity to keep their taxi ID or their truck card. I believe that these rules and this application are not based on today's knowledge and the current state of play in the development of medical devices. Here I really think it is a pity that the Minister is so passive in his response and does not say that he is prepared to take the initiative for a change. I hope the Minister can reconsider that view.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-423	Madam President, I would like Mr. Minister! It's a relevant interpellation set. I think there is a great deal in what Johan Hultberg is putting forward. I have worked a little with visual field problems, which affect diabetes to a great extent. There I know that Sweden and the Swedish Transport Agency are very strict. It is a bit strange in Sweden. We have complicated driving licence tests with a very advanced theory part, which sometimes makes it almost impossible for some practical young people and new arrivals to pass the test without much effort for Swedish knowledge and other things. I've thought it might be a little easier to take the driver's license theory. It should not be as much new requirements as it is now in Swedish and so on. I hope the Minister will take it with him. I have exercised this in the past. While we place high demands in Sweden on those who take Swedish driving licences, there are lower or no demands on them very many who drive a car in Sweden and who live in other countries, tourists here and so on. They drive with driving licences from countries that do not set high standards at all and sometimes no demands at all on the field of view and so on. It may be that Sweden, even in this area, is uniquely strict compared to all other countries. I don't know, but I'm not ruling it out. It is good that the Minister said in his reply that there are still opportunities, and it is good that the Transport Agency is looking at them. It has to be done in an international comparison. Sweden cannot reasonably be too far ahead. There is an issue that is linked to this that is about the field of vision, and I will soon interpel the Minister about it. I thought I might take the chance to flag a little bit for the problem that is very closely linked. Sweden's demands are very high. If you have some flaws in your field of vision, often due to diabetes, but look very good, Sweden has said that you have to undergo tests with a synthesized machine. You have your body, your head, and your eyes fixed. Then you should see when something happens in the edges. The Swedish Transport Agency has set very high standards on its own. You can't miss anything. In Norway, with lower traffic mortality than in Sweden, there are not many synthesizers. There are no driving simulators. The new thing is to prove your driving skills, which is a step in the right direction. But it costs 20 000 kroner. It's a class question who gets to test and who will. In Norway, as in other countries of the world, I would think, you can prove your driving ability in practical driving tests. In Sweden you don't get it. It's incredibly strange. I think that Sweden should have a vision of a high level of road safety, absolutely. We will check those who take driving licences in Sweden and have good demands. We will check those who drive in Sweden with other driving licenses. Now, if you go to Norway and settle in, you get a practical driving test. Thousands of those who today are deprived of their driving licences in Sweden could take their driving licences there, and then they can drive freely in Sweden. In Sweden, however, they are deprived of their driving licences. Nevertheless, it was a balanced response from the Minister. I look forward to discussing this issue later.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Johan Hultberg and Staffan Danielsson for their commitment! It's really important. I also appreciate the fact that you both highlight road safety as a starting point. Here Sweden is the world leader. We broke a new minimum last year, if I may put it that way, in terms of the number of people killed and injured in traffic. That's a lot fewer than just ten years ago. That's the success of the zero vision. Now that we are re-launching the zero vision, we are doing so because we do not settle down as world leaders but raise the level of ambition. Anyone who has had a close relative or someone else who has been injured or killed in traffic knows how terrible it is. They know how unnecessary it feels in a situation where we develop safety systems in our vehicles so that serious accidents and deaths could be avoided even more. That is why the government is moving forward with a great many road safety efforts. In the budget we could read about alco-boms that are now to be set up automated at the ports. The first will be in 2018. They will prevent drivers who are under the influence of alcohol from entering our roads, not least heavy vehicles. I intend to come forward with proposals on winter tyres on heavy-duty vehicles and buses. In recent weeks we have noticed how heavy vehicles have caused accidents or traffic jams as a result of the snowfall because they have substandard tyres. This applies, in particular, to foreign lorries with summer tyres, which I find unacceptable. We have recently made sure that everyone should now have their hands on the steering wheel, that is to say, that you should handle mobile telephony via connection and not by sitting and texting while driving. It's important. That is one of the reasons why we are so far ahead. We also made extra demands on those who are professional drivers. Drivers of heavy-duty vehicles, buses and taxis must have strict requirements. Otherwise, it is the third person and others on the road who are affected. Once that is said, it is also important, as Johan Hultberg mentions in the interpellation, that we also do a review and adapt the regulations according to the technical development we have on the vehicle side and also looked at the research situation not least for diabetes. This also applies to how to design the synthesis. It concerns the possibility of monitoring and managing your illness in such a way that people do not end up in situations where they are at risk of road-related behaviour. I am therefore very pleased that the Swedish Transport Agency is now reviewing its regulations during the year. That is the review I intend to await. I have been involved in these issues myself before. It is important to make sure that you take advantage of the skills of a person who has driven a car throughout his life. As far as possible, society should provide the right tools for people to remain active. The balance is difficult. I think everyone realises that the Transport Agency and certainly the Eye Medical Committee in Brussels or jointly in the EU are doing their best to ensure that they have a good basis for facts when making the difficult balance that it means that someone is no longer allowed to keep their licence. On the other hand, I am a little split up about whether we in Sweden have a harder test than in other EU countries and whether it is we who are going to adapt the other way. I want us to have a safe traffic environment throughout Europe. I want the other EU countries to have equivalent road safety systems as we do. This would significantly reduce the number of road fatalities and injuries across Europe. I would like to await the Transport Agency's review before giving notice of any changes to the rules. If so, of course, I would be prepared to try it.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-442	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your second intervention in the debate. In particular, I listened to the second part of the answer which explicitly dealt with the question I asked. I also welcome the review that the Swedish Transport Agency says will be carried out in the near future. It is very important that this review should look again at the development of modern technology tools. In his first reply, the Minister referred to the evaluation of the State's medical and social evaluation process from 2013. In the years since then, a great deal has happened. Madam President, I would like I myself was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes as late as 2014. In the years since then, the difference is like night and day. There is a completely different range of technical aids that allow me as a diabetic to keep track of my blood sugar and act in time before I get in such a situation that I have had too low blood sugar and can be at risk both for myself and for others. Madam President, I would like This is certainly not a question of compromising road safety. It is about having a regulatory framework that is adapted to the current state of knowledge and today's technical tools and that seriously tests the individual's ability or inability. I think that many times the Swedish Transport Agency makes it far too easy for itself in its handling of, for example, the exemption cases. It is noted that diabetics generally have a higher risk of becoming unconscious. It's true. But I do not think that one should start from the average diabetic, but one should start from the individual diabetic. I think we should have that order in Sweden. These are decisions that are important from the point of view of road safety. But it is also decisions that are extremely important to the individual. In my interpellation, I highlight an example from Växjö with the taxi driver Jan, who is familiar to both the Minister and me. He has simply had his career torn apart by the fact that he is no longer allowed to retain his taxi ID. I hope, and I think the Minister shares that view, that it will work out for Jan. However, I do not think that this possibility is very great with the practice and the regulatory framework that we have today. We really need to get a different set of rules in place. When it comes to taxis, it's quite interesting. Jan is allowed to drive his ordinary passenger car for how long, how long and how far he wants, but he is not allowed to do so in commercial traffic. It may be reasonable to make tougher demands on commercial traffic than you might make on me as a private car driver. But somewhere I might think there is reason to review that regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I hope that the Minister does not simply follow the evaluation and review carried out by the Transport Agency. I hope that he will also act to ensure that the Authority does not take the simplest path and relates only to general and flat-rate assessments, but that it does the additional work that I realise it means doing individual trials. These are, as I said, important decisions for the individual, but also, of course, for road safety. Speaking of the problem raised by my colleague Staffan Danielsson from the Center Party, I was personally called by an entrepreneur this week. He was desperate because of the fact that his company would soon probably go bankrupt because he had had his driver's license withdrawn and because it takes so long to have a review or exemption granted. This issue is particularly important. I hope that more people can have their skills tested in, for example, a simulator and not just get their driving licence cancelled.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-451	Madam President, I would like I'll be brief. The Minister said what is one of the Swedish models: The other countries in Europe will adapt to Swedish rules and requirements, and ours is better than those that other countries have! I am part of the Swedish model; if we are ahead of or have the best or best-designed requirements, I share the view that we should try to get the other countries to rise to our level. On the other hand, as in this case, it is possible that we will be led by experts who want so much and who themselves formulate the rules and lay down the requirements for, for example, having their field of view tested. The expert says that we should not accept practical driving tests but only use synthesizers and that the requirements should be rock hard in this extremely stressful environment. If a person then fails to meet these very high demands and rules that Sweden has unilaterally laid down, we will take the driving licence. It has been opened to car simulators, and that's good. It's actually a practical test. But it costs 20 000 kroner, and it is a tremendous stress. Some people can't handle the balance exercises. And only a few are allowed to try, because there is a queue. There I think we have a little to learn from, for example, Norway, where a lot is based on strict practical driving tests to assess whether the person in question can drive well. We will bring out what is better in Sweden and make Europe adapt to it. But perhaps a little humility should be shown. When there is something as questioned as it is in my second question, it would be good for everyone if it were sorted out.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-455	Madam President, I would like It's true, Staffan Danielsson : A little humble should be too. And I think we are in many cases. We must, of course, see if we can find common rules and areas of application within the European Union. But just as regards safety, we from the Swedish side can also be a bit cocky. We are actually very good at road safety work, and we have developed good practices and regulations. That is one of the reasons why in this context I had the current discussion about winter tires in my mind. It is undeniably the case that when foreign hauliers come in with their vehicles, they have winter tires to a much smaller extent than Swedish hauliers have. I do not think that is acceptable. If you come and drive on Swedish roads you should have winter tires, and we will make sure that with legislation and rules this secure. That, of course, is my ambition. I very much share Johan Hultberg's view that the individual trial must be there, because it is important to the individual as such. This is not a model that is designed based on what should be convenient for the Swedish Transport Agency or for the state as a trial. It is for the individual to feel secure in getting the right trial and in using the best methods. That is why I also share the view that it is important to assimilate new knowledge. These are areas where a lot is happening. That is why I emphasise in the answer that the Transport Agency's review is important because they are now doing a proper review of their regulations during the coming year. I myself believe that we should not underestimate the technological developments that are taking place on the vehicle side. Alongside our opportunity to review driver training, which is currently under way, or our opportunity to ensure that the tests carried out by those who are supposed to maintain their driving licence are properly developed on the vehicle side. It is about automatic braking systems, about self-driving vehicles and about driver support systems that can in themselves change the conditions for which requirements we will impose on those who bring forward certain types of vehicles in the future. I think this is an interesting question in the coming years. We will have a particularly large international summit on self-driving and connected vehicles in Gothenburg this summer. Although much of it is about the efficiency of the transport sector, a small proportion is also about road safety. It is about the ability to secure the traffic environment through automated and connected applications. When we review driver training, I think it is important that we look at the requirements that exist both in professional traffic, where there should be tougher requirements, and for others who should have a driving licence and a driving licence. Let us look at the technological developments currently taking place in the vehicle fleet, because I believe it will change the conditions. Finally, it is important that we in Sweden protect our road safety work. However, it is also important that we give those affected by illness reasonable and proper opportunities to maintain their professional career. We will use the means at our disposal. We're going to adapt the new technology that's in place to keep track of the fact that you don't end up in insulin coma-- if I may express myself in that terminology. Where appropriate, we shall review the regulatory framework and ensure that it is adequate. I do not believe that the interpellants and the government have different views on this issue. However, it is important that we now have a proper basis for decision making so that we can make the right decision in the future. It is both a matter of safeguarding the traffic environment and of providing those affected by illness or visual impairments with reasonable and legally secure opportunities to have their case tested, with trust and with opportunities to continue their professional career.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-464	Madam President, I would like This is perhaps not the most party political issue we are debating here in Parliament. I therefore choose to interpret the Minister's reply positively. There is a will on the part of the government, judging from what I hear from the Minister, to bring about a better order than today. They want to await the revision that the Swedish Transport Agency is doing. Let us hope that it will result in a better regulatory framework, because I honestly think that the Swedish Transport Agency is too comfortable in its handling. I note that flat-rate assessments are being made and all type 1 ‐ diabetics are being taken over. The only exceptions that I know have been given to people with type 1 diabetes to a higher level of competence are precisely the very limited exceptions where one can be allowed to drive a truck to and from a laundry hall or equivalent. But as far as I know, it is not, for example, a taxi driver, such as Jan, who has been authorised to hold this entitlement and this driving licence if at the same time diabetes type 1 is diagnosed. I strongly believe that we should keep a close eye on road safety. But that must not be an excuse for not giving people an individual test and looking at the individual case. I have good hopes for the review that the authority will be carrying out, and I hope that we will soon have a system that respects the individual situation of diabetics and gives them good treatment. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister another question. It is about that last autumn the Swedish Transport Agency called the diabetes doctors to a meeting to discuss the regulations. They chose not to invite patient organisations. Does the Minister not think that it would be reasonable and appropriate to allow the patient organisations to speak with regard to these regulations, which are so important to their members? Thank you for a good discussion!
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-469	Madam President, I would like With regard to the last question, I will be a little careful at this point to express how the Swedish Transport Agency should do, because then I risk being notified to the KU for ministerial government. But I can generally say that I always think it's good that we follow the tradition that exists in Sweden and listen both to experts and to those who are deeply involved and knowledgeable in various issues. It is often civil society, peoples' movements and interest groups. In fact, I myself recently made the exception of choosing, in the work on the national plan and infrastructure investment, not only to listen to county planners and trade associations, but to invite civil society and listen to a variety of interest groups. It provided a good basis for the government to make wise decisions. When it comes to the issue as such, I also look forward to the Transport Agency's review. I think it's important. This is an issue in which we must remember that it is both about the individual's ability to ensure that they have a personal test – it is now possible to do so, and it can certainly be further developed – and about the Transport Agency's ability to use the best technology and evidence to ensure that an adequate test of the field of vision or other ability to drive the vehicle safely is carried out. It is also a question of keeping track of the technological developments that exist with driver support systems, and of course it is a question of safeguarding road safety for all of us. I still maintain that, precisely with regard to professional traffic, those who drive a bus, a taxi or a heavy vehicle, we should also be able to make special demands on their professional skills because it has such a great effect if there is damage to traffic. I think that is a view that we all share, and I look forward to continued good debates on this issue.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-473	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I and the government have taken to remedy the shortcomings in the application of the Public Transport Act that the Transport Committee drew attention to in connection with its review in 2015 and how I view a development where more municipalities and county councils choose to operate public transport in their own direction. My picture of public transport in Sweden is that it is usually of high quality and that the regional public transport authorities work professionally. But, of course, there are things to improve. I believe that Parliament's follow-up from 2015 is thus good and that the government is working on the issues raised by the follow-up in several aspects. One example is that the government proposed to Parliament in December last year a change to the Rail Transport Act. The proposal includes, among other things, the introduction of a so-called right of regress in the railway sector, i.e. provisions that allow railway undertakings to have such late costs reimbursed by the infrastructure manager if the delay is due to infrastructure deficiencies. The government believes that this will improve the quality of the rail system. The Public Transport Act entered into force on 1 January 2012, i.e. six years ago. I believe that the greatest benefit of the introduction of a public transport law is the new rules on how regional public transport authorities should act and a more functional demarcation between regional public transport on the one hand and commercial interregional public transport on the other. However, the market opening of local and regional public transport by the previous bourgeois government is, I believe, excessive. We should be aware that there are strong reasons for local and regional public transport to be essentially a public commitment. Therefore, any commercial traffic that may be added to such a public undertaking would naturally be of limited scope. Erik Ottoson also asks about my view that some municipalities and county councils operate public transport in their own right. I would like to point out that there has never been a requirement, or even a recommendation, from the State that regional public transport authorities should or should procure public transport services. My position and that of the government is that it should also remain the respective regional public transport authority that should decide whether they want to procure public transport or whether they want to operate it on their own. It is the local and regional politicians in each county who are responsible for the efficient use of public transport taxes. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government is continuously working to improve the conditions for Swedish public transport. This includes proposing such amendments to the Public Transport Act if necessary.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The new law, which is not entirely new anymore but has been in place for a few years and has also had the opportunity to sit down, meant a lot of changes in the area of public transport. As with all the reforms that are being implemented, they need to be managed and also ready to contribute further decisions to ensure that the outcome is the most favourable, in this case especially for the traveller. I want to say that the government has mostly looked at rather than actively managing this new law. There are a number of areas where there would be a need to complete, update and possibly some adjustments. There are proposals for this, among other things, within the framework of the follow-up that the Committee on Transport has carried out. There are further suggestions on what could be done that also goes again in the Transport Committee's follow-up in the major investigation of the railways that Gunnar Alexandersson did and handed over to the government at the beginning of this term of office. Not much has moved on, so to speak. The Government's and his representatives' answer to this usually is that there were not many concrete proposals in Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation on exactly what to do. No, that's right, because there's so much that needs to be done that a series of spin-off investigations are needed based on the much larger investigation that Gunnar Alexandersson conducted. No such ones have come into being. One thing that I can think is very important, especially if we talk about what the Government is talking about, i.e. the intersection between regional public transport and interregional commercial rail traffic, is a national transport supply programme for the railways – a description and a target picture of what we want with our Swedish railway facility which the state after all owns and to some extent also manages. There is no such clear strategy at present. It also goes again in the often incomprehensible and perhaps very tough process of assigning train paths to different interests. It is difficult to see exactly what the vision of the railway is when you look at how the train paths are assigned. The railway operators also find it difficult to know what they really want out and whether this is really the way to get the most out of our already very overloaded railway system. That is an example. Another example of something that would need to be developed is the availability of various forms of infrastructure, for example for bus and coach companies to access terminals that are largely made up of tax money to ensure that we have the opportunity to travel in all sorts of different directions. However, it can be difficult for a new entrepreneur to get to a terminal and use it on market terms. The same applies to a range of different types of digital infrastructure, travel planners and others, where previous or current monopoly positions make it difficult for new entrepreneurs to enter the public transport market. There are a number of further issues raised in the follow-up of the Transport Committee that would need to be updated and developed. If the Government is serious about its willingness to propose amendments to the Public Transport Act, I wonder: When will those proposals come?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-490	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me say that Erik Ottoson mentions the overloaded railway system, and that is an adequate description. Today, the rail system is completely overloaded because more people want to ride trains and more companies want to send freight on trains. These developments have been going on for perhaps ten years or even longer. Nevertheless, the former and also the former government during the year of the Alliance in the government did not choose to invest enough in the infrastructure. On the contrary, they underinvested and had a finance minister who made a point of not investing in rail because it was socially unprofitable, as I think he put it. The effects are now being seen with an overloaded rail system and heavy wear, which means that we need to make dramatic increases in the envelope for railway maintenance to maintain functionality. Today, train users hear the words'signal errors' and 'changes' all too often as a result of underinvestments during a time when tax cuts were given priority before investment in things that build the country. It is therefore a good thing that we now have a government that puts 100 billion more into the national infrastructure plan and that increases rail maintenance by 47%, so that at least in the future we can see fewer signalling and switching errors and get better functionality in the rail system. The Interpellation is about the follow-up of the Public Transport Act. We are, of course, following the recurrent and have shown, not least through the proposal on the railway side, that we are prepared to act when necessary. But I do not see that there is great pressure and commitment to privatise or transfer a large part of public transport to private operators around the country, which is the picture that Erik Ottoson paints. On the contrary, there is an important point in the fact that it is up to regional politicians and arenas to decide this. It should not be done nationally. Most regions choose to find the right procurement system and the right models for the implementation of public transport. And it is a reasonable order that those who assume regional responsibility for the provision of public transport also bear responsibility for the organisation of traffic. Finally, on the subject of Mr Alexandersson's investigation, I would like to say that I take note of the expression spin-off investigations. It is probably true that Alexandersson's investigation was of such a nature that it took many more investigations to further clarify it. The investigation has been handled within the Ministry of Enterprise. Part of what came out, we have chosen to move on with. There will certainly be a need for further investigation work in relation to other parts; some investigation work is of course ongoing. Now we focus on increasing the functionality of our rail system. In the national plan, which the government will decide on in the spring, there will therefore be major investments in railway maintenance. We also announce changes in the responsibility for maintenance operations. The plan will also contain the main investments ahead, totalling over 700 billion over the next twelve-year period. It's the biggest bet ever. It's good for Sweden. This will mean that we are getting closer to meeting climate requirements in a better way and that we are strengthening competitiveness through more efficient transport.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-498	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! However, it was more about saying a lot of things and talking about everything that does not concern the questions I asked, except precisely at the end. I note that the Alliance Government doubled the funding for railway maintenance. And we now match the government's proposal for increased railway maintenance for the new national plan. I think we should try to keep a somewhat higher level of hygiene in the debate than to say a lot of things about that. My question concerns, above all, the initiatives that actually exist. I am certainly not saying that we need to phase out municipal public transport. However, the commercial alternatives that exist and that wish to enter the market, on commercial terms without tax subsidies, are a matter of concern. It is not just a question of market fundamentals, of being outcompeted by the subsidised part of public transport; it is a question of regulatory problems, of not being able to enter terminals on the same terms as the other public transport system, of being excluded by monopolists from digital infrastructure solutions and other such. The Government must see this as something of a concern when we now have this public transport law. Otherwise, the Government may rewind the tape and make it impossible for that form of establishment. The fact that a market opening in the law does not have a full effect because of a lot of other problems cannot benefit either me or the Government's starting point. Somewhere you can choose the path. That too is some form of fundamental integrity in political governance that I think we can agree on. When I talk about the high load on the railways, I do so with a warm heart. It is positive that more people want to use our common rail system. But it also means that we need to think about how we can do it most effectively. That is why I am raising the issue of a national transport supply programme. That could set the direction for how we, as a state owner of the railway plant, want it to be used in the most effective way. Today, in reality, a lot of departures are half full. They would have to be filled more. They still take up the same space on the railways. Efficiency could be achieved. For example, you can drive more goods at night than during the day when passenger trains may need to use the facility more. This could increase efficiency. I would like the Government to address the possibility of clarifying more clearly what is desirable and how the facility can be used more efficiently. It cannot possibly be a political issue of arbitration that we want the railways to be used as efficiently as possible.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-505	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not hope that this is a political matter of arbitration. I think everyone wants our rail system to be used in the best and most effective way. However, the interaction is mainly about how we will change and follow up on the Public Transport Act. That's a slightly different question. In the Government Office we are now working on the good strategy, which should be presented at the same time as the national plan. We are looking at the conditions for better development of freight transport. It is possible to optimise flows and to use existing capacity in a much more efficient way. The digitalisation that is under way means increased opportunities to control freight flows. And I myself strongly urge that I want to see a development where we will link an increased quantity of goods with the challenges of shipping, not least for climate reasons. There are good opportunities to do so. However, it is only to be admitted that the big challenge is that it is too crowded on the tracks, whether you drive at night or during the day, because it has been underinvested for a long time. We now have 100 billion more than in the previous national plan to invest in maintenance but also in new tracks. If we are to have more opportunity to use rail freight, I believe that new investments are needed, in connection with existing rail tracks but also in new high-speed rail main lines. This will in itself have a major impact on the conditions for the goods on, for example, the Southern Main Line. This is exactly the process that is going on now, all over Sweden. Everyone who is deeply involved in both the national plan and the good strategy looks brightly at a future where we start to steer up what priority freight flows we should have and how to ensure that we coordinate the investments society makes. In regions, together with chambers of commerce and other stakeholders, they are talking together to give the government their signals as to what the most important investments are. That process is ongoing. The other day I had a meeting with the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. There was a great deal of commitment and interest in raising views and talking about the government's key priorities. Resetting the Swedish infrastructure system is within reach, so that it will be more climate-smart, so that we will strengthen competitiveness and not least in order to implement new technologies. There are great opportunities within reach, both when it comes to streamlining and when it comes to increasing the scope of use with optimization on the freight side by implementing new technology. Now it has been a lot about rail. But we can see corresponding developments on the road side, not least with electric roads. In this sense, intensive development work is under way. I am not sure whether this means that we need to make changes to the Public Transport Act. Of course, the necessary changes will be made. But in the near future it has been about the railway side, and that bill is already on the table of the Riksdag. As far as liability is concerned, I see no other way than that the most important thing is for regional actors, who are responsible for public transport regionally, to determine the operating methods and procurement models for this. I am prepared to listen if there are other important challenges in addition to that of Parliament, or indeed of a united transport committee, or of different regions. But right now I perceive that the biggest discussion and the highest desire is essentially about restoring functionality and investing in maintenance, about building more capacity so that we can use the railways more. That is why we are working on finding good proposals and priorities in the national plan. But we are also working to look at increased funding opportunities for more infrastructure.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-517	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I'm just going to touch briefly on high-speed rail or new main lines, as the Government puts it. I would like to ask the very specific question: does the Government believe that they will be in place and in full operation before I retire? There is nothing to suggest that, and yet I am only 28 years old. But with the strategy that the government has chosen to move forward with this, it seems to be taking a lot of time and becoming very expensive. The increased functionality that the Government is talking about is possibly far into the future. I think our commuters need more functionality now. Then we should look at how to use the facility in the absolute best way. My proposal and that of the Moderates is to move forward with what was highlighted in the major investigation by Gunnar Alexandersson on a national transport supply programme that sets out the guidelines for what is important for us with our railway system. What are the priority transport policy objectives? If you get over that lump and start that debate, then I and the Government can stand here and discuss what is important instead of discussing whether it is important to have such a programme. Then, time and again, term after term of office, year after year, we would have a recurring dynamic discussion on how to use our railway system in the absolute best way. Then there would also be a political vision. At present, the path allocation functions in such a way as to have the allocation that has always been made. Then you try to squeeze in everything that's beyond what's added. It goes without saying that this is not a matter of priority, but of getting as much in with shoe horns as possible. We need to learn to prioritise. We need a political vision and a political strategy for this.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-524	Madam President, I would like I think what we need in Sweden is increased resources to invest in both new tracks and proper railway maintenance so that it becomes better functionality. No plans in the world and no smart plans for train paths in the world can meet the congestion on the tracks that we have today, unless we at the same time have the ability to restore functionality or have room to make new investments. This is absolutely necessary in order to increase capacity and to meet the needs of both persons and companies to use rail to a greater extent. Many people choose the railway for the sake of climate, but also because they think it is convenient and an efficient means of transport. Here we differ in the level of ambition. I think it is possible to implement this more quickly than some plans suggest. We will probably see new high-speed trains before Erik Ottoson retires, I sincerely hope so. New investments like four wheel tracks in Uppsala or other things included in the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for the national plan have great advantages as it significantly improves the conditions for flow between Stockholm and Uppsala, but also for the whole country, not least for traffic north of Sweden. By accessing the bottlenecks that exist – Citybanan and Getingmidjan – we can improve functionality very significantly. Then it takes courage to have the courage to give priority to infrastructure investment before tax cuts. That requires us to have a Minister for Finance – and we have it today – who believes that these are important priorities. We didn't have that in the year of the Alliance. Then we had a finance minister who thought it was unnecessary to invest in rail, who suggested doing other things instead, such as reducing the tax. The price of this is now being paid with congestion on the tracks and underinvestments. Now we are reversing this trend, just as we are turning the whole of Sweden's economy: full employment, surpluses in central government finances and new investments. It's good for both the trains and the climate.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-528	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked Minister Isabella Lövin if she believes that Arlanda's expansion plans are compatible with Sweden's climate targets and other environmental objectives and if the Government intends to work for the Government to conduct an environmental and climate analysis of Swedavia's expansion plans for Arlanda. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government decided on 26 January 2017 on a national aviation strategy, A Swedish aviation strategy – for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The Aviation Strategy describes in the form of seven different focus areas today's and future opportunities and challenges facing aviation and how to address the challenges. The focus areas should be seen as a whole and work together to achieve high policy objectives in several policy areas, such as transport policy, environmental policy and industrial policy. One of the focus areas of the aviation strategy is to strengthen Arlanda Airport as a hub and major airport. Arlanda is Sweden's largest and most important airport to ensure good accessibility within Sweden and internationally. Arlanda means a lot to Stockholm and the whole of Sweden's business development and thus also to job growth. An attractive Arlanda attracts new foreign investments and business start-ups not only in the Stockholm region but throughout Sweden. The Government therefore decided on 18 May 2017 to establish a Arlanda Council to contribute to the Government's efforts to develop Arlanda Airport in the long term from an overall perspective. An important task for the Arlanda Council is to give concrete input to an action plan, a one-way plan, for Arlanda, which will be developed in the Government Office during the year. The flight plan will propose coordinated measures to develop Arlanda Airport in a sustainable way from a holistic perspective. Such a holistic approach covers the airport, airspace and connecting transport and infrastructure on the ground, but also access to other airports in the Stockholm region. It is part of the Arlanda Council's task to take environmental and climate aspects into account in the work. The long-term development of Arlanda Airport should not be seen in isolation from other measures in the aviation or transport system as a whole. Another very important, not to say crucial, focus area in the aviation strategy is that the environmental and climate impact of aviation should be reduced. Here the government clearly states that aviation will contribute to the achievement of national environmental quality objectives. Sweden must also act as a driving force internationally in the EU and ICAO, for example, for more effective requirements and instruments to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation. The government has already taken many initiatives to reduce the climate impact of aviation. A tax on air travel is a first step in the right direction to reduce the climate impact of aviation. In order to contribute to the conversion of aviation, the Government is also investing in the conversion of the aviation industry to renewable fuels. Therefore, the government will set up a study to analyse whether there is a need for instruments to increase the share of renewable fuels. In accordance with the Government's proposal, the Riksdag has decided that SEK 100 million will be allocated from 2018 to 2020 to support the development of biofuels for aviation. The focus areas and priorities of the aviation strategy should therefore be seen in a context. Both the need for long-term sustainable development of Arlanda Airport from a holistic perspective and the need to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation should be ensured. It is my conviction that the coordinating approach that the Arlanda Council and the Roadmap represent increases the conditions for Sweden to achieve climate and environmental objectives. Without such an approach, the conditions for meeting the environmental and climate objectives are more difficult while Arlanda is growing. As regards the question of an analysis of the environmental and climate perspective of Swedavia's expansion plans for Arlanda, I would like to say that for the state as an owner, it is of particular importance that companies with state ownership work for a reduced climate and environmental impact. All ten of Swedavia's airports included in the national base offer are certified at the highest level by Airport Carbon Accreditation, which is an international standard for airport climate work. I note that Swedavia is actively working to reduce the climate impact associated with airports. No one should doubt the Government's ambition to reduce the climate impact of aviation while ensuring good accessibility. I have the ambition that Sweden will become a permanent world exhibition for new climate-smart technology. There is room for aviation in that exhibition if we continue the strategic work and work with the right instruments. The work on biofuels, aviation tax, Vinnova's programme for new technologies in aviation and the Arlanda Council are important parts of that work.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-538	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his answer to my interpellation. I did ask it to the climate minister Isabella Lövin, because I think Arlanda's expansion plans are a climate issue and a bit of a survival issue. But I can also discuss this with the Minister for Infrastructure. The aviation sector is one of the fastest growing areas in terms of global and Swedish greenhouse gas emissions. Since 1990, international flights from Sweden have increased by 130 per cent. In the same time, emissions from the sector have increased by 70%. If this continues, in 2040 the aviation sector alone can make up the same proportion as Sweden's total emissions. Most agree that this is not sustainable, as the Minister for Infrastructure also said in his reply. I and the Left Party are behind the proposed air tax, which is now coming into force. We also support investments in renewable fuels. But that is not enough. We cannot continue to fly as much as we do today. Therefore, Swedavia's plans to significantly increase the number of flights and landings at Arlanda are very worrying. Swedavia has said that up to 2045 you want to double the number of passengers from Arlanda, and by 2070 you can imagine a triple of the number of passengers. This cannot be done at the same time as reducing emissions from the sector. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what he thinks about Swedavia's plans for a possible triple of the number of passengers from Arlanda. When Tomas Eneroth has previously commented on this, he has said that Arlanda will be the leading airport in the Nordic region. I can't interpret it in any other way than that the government thinks it's good if we get more flights from Arlanda. Should the number of flights from Arlanda double or even triple, we will also have massively increased emissions because we cannot find aircraft without emissions, because they do not exist. At some point in the future, we may have electrified aircraft, but this may well be viewed as something that is very far in the future. In Sweden, however, we have at the same time a climate law and a climate policy framework. It is just like the climate minister Isabella Lövin said a couple of weeks ago: It is now forbidden to reduce the climate. All policy areas must assume their climate responsibility. Therefore, since I do not think I received a concrete answer, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure once again: does the Minister think that Arlanda's expansion plans are compatible with the climate and other environmental objectives we have set ourselves? I would also like to know whether the government has carried out an environmental impact assessment and analysis from a climate perspective of these expansion plans. I did not think the Minister responded to this. The government has to manage these expansion plans somehow. Ultimately, the reduction in emissions must be what applies.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-546	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure! I thank Mr Jens for the interpellation and the Minister for the answer. It is quite clear that the government has finally moved on with the airline tax. Efforts are being made to find better fuels and a more efficient aviation sector. However, Mr Jens is right in his question, and I am also concerned about that: we know that flights are fast at high altitudes, and then, by definition, they will use a lot of energy. We also know that aircraft are being used for decades, so if we plan to increase the number of passengers to double by 2045, the last fossil-dependent aircraft will be sold now. If we are to achieve both goals at the same time, no more will be bought. Will the plan be revised to double the number of passengers if we fail to achieve the efficiency targets? It says in the strategy that we should take environmental and climate interests into account. However, I would like to say that the prerequisite for all activity is that environmental and climate interests are the basis for the survival of flights and all other activities. When it comes to increasing the use of renewables, we know that we want to switch to more wood construction. That's good. We want to get away from the fossil chemical industry and instead have a bio-based one. That's good. We want to use biofuels when they can be used. That's good. We may then want to use some of this for aviation. In addition to the Swedish climate target, we also have the UN climate target. The UN objective also means that we should preserve biodiversity. To achieve both goals at the same time, we must in some way reduce the energy consumption of aviation. How are we going to achieve both the target of less energy consumption – or less fossil use in aviation – and the target of increased passenger numbers and at the same time not emptying our soil of bio-based resources? Linked to this is that we do not only have climate targets. Today, aviation has very many exceptions to EU chemicals regulations and other rules. Airplanes are allowed to use climate-damaging gases in the extinguishing plants, chemicals in pipes and anti-sparkling chemicals and the like, which are not permitted elsewhere. So there are many exceptions to the flight today. If aviation is to grow, action must be taken, not only in the climate and energy sectors, but also in the chemicals sector. Otherwise, we will continue to subsidise aircraft compared with other modes of transport. In a previous interpellation debate, we talked about spending more money on the extension of trains. That is something that we have already started with and that we all agree that we should continue with. But we don't have infinite resources, so why not take the most important thing first? If we invest more in the trains, we may not have to invest in the expansion of the aircraft.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-554	Madam President, I would like I thank both Jens Holm and Carl Schlyter. The intervention is excellent, and you are asking important questions. No one should hesitate about the government's climate ambitions. It is absolutely essential for Sweden to change, and it is absolutely necessary for the world to change. The advantage when Sweden converts and does it before others is that it creates both an example and a hope in a world that in some parts is so gloomy when it comes to climate denial. It is also important because in Sweden it can provide business opportunities and jobs when we show how we can manage to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It can show that we in Sweden dare to establish what I usually call the permanent world exhibition for the implementation of environmentally smart technology. Sweden has great opportunities to go ahead. However, it will require aviation to assume its responsibilities. However, in view of Jens Holm's argument, I would like to say that in the whole transport sector, other heavy goods transport remains the major challenge. It's important to remember that. But in the long term it is a huge challenge that aviation also takes on its responsibilities. Among other things, this is an argument for the air tax. Other types of transport and vehicles actually pay a great deal of their emissions. That is why we need to find a system that goes beyond the Chicago Convention and makes aviation assume its responsibilities. The development that we have in the future is a challenge. Because even if we in Sweden are at least reasonably broad in agreement on investments in the rail system and build high-speed trains, we should be aware that the major expansion that aviation is now undergoing is about travel abroad. This does not apply to business trips within Sweden. Nor do we who travel between smaller towns in Sweden, but the big expansion is about you and me and many others who go to the Canary Islands or Thailand on holiday. Leisure travel abroad is the great expansion. If this is to be changed, changes in biodrive lines in aircraft and what is called free route airspace, i.e. straighter approach lines, are required to reduce impact. Better engines will be needed to reduce combustion, and other instruments will be required to change and influence people's behaviour and choices in terms of travel and understanding of the climate effects they may have. But above all, and this is where I think the Arlanda Council comes in, a coherent policy is needed for the transformation Sweden needs to make. I come from southern Sweden and have travelled a lot from Kastrup. I will honestly say that I have been impressed by Denmark's way of focusing on Kastrup's development. Infrastructure investments have been systematically led to Kastrup, smart transport to the airport and made sure that the resources are collected and deployed there. This has not been the case in Sweden. Here we have had a completely different structure for airports, with Bromma, Skavsta, Arlanda, Västerås and Norrköping– very many airports. It is time to review the Swedish airport structure. This will happen at the same time as we focus on the work of making Arlanda the leading airport, both in terms of gathering a large part of the challenges we have in the future with increasing air traffic and in terms of conversion. Swedavia is doing a good job there to ensure that Arlanda, but also other Swedavia airports, have good and sustainable work. To answer Jens Holm's question about environmental testing, it is constantly going on. Every expansion plan and any change made at the airport is tested in accordance with the environmental legislation we have and will also be tested in accordance with the newer legislation, which is very strict and thorough and very important in times when the climate must come first.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-562	Madam President, I would like Arlanda is, as you know, our largest airport. The other year, the record was broken again and 26 million passengers passed in one year. But 26 million passengers also mean considerably more flights, and more flights mean increased emissions. I asked a specific question about Arlanda's expansion plans. It is Swedavia that drives them, Tomas Eneroth, and Swedavia we own together; it is a state-owned company. Swedavia has a plan: In 2045 you will have 50 million passengers to and from Arlanda. In 2070, 70 million travelers, that is, threefold compared to today's figures. I want to know: is the government and Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth behind these expansion plans? That is a specific question to which I would like an answer. The Minister commented on the term If the Minister believes that Arlanda should be the leading airport in the Nordic region in that it should be the most modern and sustainable – you sort garbage, everyone goes there collectively instead of by car and so on – and that, as the Minister was at, we close other airports, such as Bromma, it is a good idea. However, a doubling or threefolding of the number of flights from Arlanda does not last. I would like an answer to that. I didn't ask for a conventional environmental test. I may have said environmental impact assessment in my speech, but what I want to know is whether the government has done any analysis from an environmental and climate perspective of Arlanda and Swedavia's expansion plans. Such an analysis can be done by the government itself or put out at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or any other authority so that we know what this means from a climate perspective. How much more will emissions increase? I am thinking not only of the climate perspective but also of the people who live near Arlanda. Nor should noise and local pollution be ignored when we debate aviation. I want to know if the Minister intends to initiate any such analysis-- yes or no? I think we politicians have to choose. Sometimes you choose one, and then you have to deprioritize the other. Now we have a climate law and a climate policy framework that says that we should have zero emissions in Sweden by 2045. All policies must remain within the framework we have set. Then the flight cannot literally fly under the radar but must also assume its responsibilities. It is not enough to hope for biofuels, electrified aircraft and other things. This is a long way forward in the future, and it is also as Carl Schlyter said: the aircraft fly at high altitude and thus cause extra emissions. I think that the Minister must take responsibility and say here and now: this expansion is not sustainable from an environmental and climate perspective. We are investing in other, more sustainable means of transport instead.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-570	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure said that the increase is due to the fact that more and more people – you, me and all of us – are flying on vacation. It is true but not entirely true, because personally I have actually only made a holiday trip by plane for the last eight years. My question on biodiversity remains: how can we have such a large amount of biomass from the forest and, at the same time, achieve the objective of biodiversity? And if we're going to have zero emissions in 2045 and at the same time plan a doubling of the flight, I'm not going to make the math go together, just like Jens said. Just before I got here, I was listening to climate scientist Kevin Anderson. He said that if Western countries are to take a fair share of the necessary reduction in climate emissions, they need to achieve an annual reduction in emissions of 12 – 15 percent. Sweden is currently at some percentage. How are we going to achieve such an extremely much faster disarmament of our climate weapon, CO2 emissions, if at the same time we are investing in increased flights? My last question is linked to the planned expansion and concerns the fourth runway. It is certainly good if Arlanda can replace other airports, but if Heathrow is currently discussing a possible third runway, how can we need a fourth? They must have a much more efficient traffic planning if they can cope with so much traffic on two routes today. Perhaps we never need that track but can look at other instruments.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-574	Madam President, I would like With regard to the latter, there are slightly different conditions regarding the airspace available for an airport such as Arlanda and for Heathrow. This is the explanation. Thus, it is not said that one has taken a position on how the future roller tracks should be designed or whether they should exist. The whole idea of the Arlanda Council is to have a comprehensive review of the developments we are seeing. Swedavia, of course, is based on the forecasts made internationally of how aviation will develop. To turn a blind eye to reality – to say that we do not believe that aviation will increase – is not a successful strategy. It will increase, and what we need to consider is what we can do to influence this. What instruments do we have at our disposal to change the conditions and ensure that we do not have an unbridled expansion of things that are climate dangerous? How do we create sustainable development? By taking political responsibility, in this case, by developing a roadmap for Arlanda's development. This development is important for Swedish aviation as a whole. Arlanda is not just Stockholm region airport but the whole of Sweden. If we are to have an infrastructure that works for biofuels, for example, Arlanda will be the key, because that is where the plan is being refuelled. If we are to cope with the climate change, Arlanda will be the key to all the demands we will make on our flights in Sweden in the future. I am not as pessimistic as some others in terms of the conditions for biofuels or, for that matter, electrification, even if this is further away in time. We know that the JAS aircraft has already run on biofuels. If you visit GKN in Trollhättan and look at the technical development of aircraft engines you can see that it is quite fast. From a Swedish perspective, the challenge may rather be about the logistical conditions or, taking into account what Carl Schlyter highlighted, the production conditions for producing biofuels. Competition for the raw material will be very large. Partly this will certainly be facilitated by the electrification that takes place in the rest of the vehicle fleet and at the moment is actually going faster than many of us thought. The starting point, which I think Jens Holm is partly missing in the discussion, is that we now have a government that not only allows us to get an ad hoc development for aviation but takes a concerted approach, as has been done in Denmark in the past with regard to Kastrup's development. I have not seen that we have done so in Sweden before. I think that a lot of travelers who have been to Arlanda have noticed that too. There is a need for a comprehensive strategy, and Swedavia takes its responsibility as a state-owned company and highlights its perspective based on the challenges you have and sees with the increased opportunities of aviation. Then you can see what investment is necessary. In the near future, it is mainly about improving the flow and getting a better functioning airport, both from the point of view of security and from the point of view of travellers. But the political perspective must be about how we create a sustainable flight, how aviation assumes its responsibility and how we in Swedish tradition, where we actually are at our best, use our industrial capacity, our fantastic conditions with the natural resources we have and our ability to find system know-how to see how far we can actually get to ensure that aviation, just like the automotive industry, takes increased responsibility for the transformation that is so necessary in the future. In addition, I stress that there will also be a need for discussion on our travel. Although Carl Schlyter does not travel abroad as often as many others, I believe that we have seen a rather sharp increase in leisure travel already today. We can see that it will increase in the future. That is why I have also welcomed the debate we have seen, not least on social media, because it is important for people to have a better understanding: politicians do not solve everything; they also need their own responsibility.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-582	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is indeed an important debate about the increase in flying and the consequences it has for the environment and the climate. As I said earlier, international aviation in Sweden has increased by 130 percent since 1990. So we are flying extremely much today. Should we double the flying? Should we triple it? How much are we supposed to fly? Everyone understands that this is not sustainable. I asked you two specific questions, Tomas Eneroth. Now you have one more chance: Are you behind the goals to double the number of passengers to Arlanda and to triple it to 2070 – yes or no? Is the government not going to do its own analysis from an environmental and climate perspective of the strong Arlanda expansion? I want to know, Tomas Eneroth. Then the Minister says that we cannot turn a blind eye to reality. It sounds like we politicians can't control reality, but that's why people have chosen us, to change. When the Barcelona-Madrid high-speed train link was opened, domestic air traffic died in practice. It went down by over 80 percent. In France, there has been a major debate about a new major airport in the west of France – I think it is outside Rennes – and now Macron has said that you should not have it. These plans have been completely abandoned. Carl Schlyter told us about the debates about an extra runway at Heathrow, London. It has been going on for many years, and it is a huge resistance. Of course we politicians can influence developments, and that's what I want you to do, Tomas Eneroth. Then the flight tax is great. Efforts on renewable fuels are great, but we also need to fly less, not more. You have to dare say that, don't you?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-588	Madam President, I would like I think I have answered the questions, Jens Holm. I have said that, within the framework of the Arlanda Council's work, we will develop a road map. There we do a proper review of the environmental and climate challenges for aviation in the future, and we look at accessibility, to ensure that accessibility to and from Arlanda works better. However, it is not for the government to over-examine or govern in detail how Swedavia designs its work. I assume that they, like all other responsible state-owned companies, have a proper basis for their forecasts and that they are trying to adapt and take up the investment they will need to meet the developments. I think it is a good thing that we should be prepared if developments are as they are today. Then it is up to both us who have the responsibility to lead Sweden today and to the Swedish Parliament to make wise decisions, so that, as Jens Holm put it, we influence reality. Let's do that. During this parliamentary term, we have taken historic decisions for the climate. This government, like no other, has set aside resources for biotope protection, to secure assets that we have and will forever retain, while at the same time changing the fleet of vehicles and managing our energy management in a fantastically much better way than before. We have a historic agreement on energy policy that is cross-border. It will enable us to achieve the objective of reassigning the energy sector to an extent that we would not have believed before. What is interesting is that when we do this we also see how the actors adapt. The energy industry sees where the signals go. Today, the automotive industry in Sweden is changing and becoming the leader in finding climate-smart vehicles that use energy efficiently. In the same way, we use instruments in dialogue and in other ways when it comes to the climate impact of aviation. There's no doubt about this government.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-591	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked three interpellations with questions concerning the problem of black driving schools. Since the interpellations mainly concern the same issues, I choose to answer them in a context. The growing problem of black driving schools is worrying for a number of reasons. For example, the student has a lower knowledge base, which results in a decreasing acceptance rate, increased need for re-tests and therefore longer driver tests queues. Legal driving school activities suffer unsound competition, and the state loses tax revenue. Several jobs that can be a way into the labour market require driving licences. In order to improve access to the labour market, the Government has announced in the 2018 budget proposal to introduce a loan facility for training for driving licences. This should be addressed in a first step to some unemployed persons aged 18 to 47. As I mentioned in an interpellation debate on long lanes for driving tests on 7 November last year, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency have initiated a broad review of the entire driver training system. The project formally started on 1 February 2018, but they met already on 9 November 2017 industry and authorities to hear their experiences and views. I also met Transportstyrelsen and Trafikverket on 29 November 2017 to inform me about the project and got a feedback from the meeting with the industry. I have also met the Swedish Transport Schools Federation to inform me about how the industry views these challenges. It is important that serious traffic schools that comply with the rules are not out-competed by rogue operators. The broad review will be conducted in collaboration with the industry and with other relevant authorities. The problem of black driving schools will be included in this project, and e.g. the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency participate in this particular issue. Regarding Edward Riedl's question about the number of permits per person, this is regulated in the Swedish Transport Agency's regulations. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, there are clear indications that the limitation to 15 permits made by the previous alliance government in 2012 has not led to a decrease in black operations but rather made it more difficult to detect. Currently, the Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute is evaluating the 2012 reform on behalf of the Swedish Transport Agency. The presentation of the assignment will be an important basis for the revision of the driver training system. No one should doubt me and the government's willingness to address the problem of black driving schools. I will follow the work on the revision of driver training with great interest and in close dialogue with the authorities and will be prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-599	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me start at another end. I have had a number of interpellation debates on various issues that are just about the black business that is spreading. Sweden is a high tax society. We have high taxes in Sweden. It allows us to fund schools and health care. A person who loses his job or falls ill can enjoy security. But this also means that anyone who chooses to stand out and who avoids taxes and charges that others pay can earn a lot of money from it. It is therefore essential that we ensure that the laws we have are complied with. The operator must be able to rely on competitors to pay the same taxes and charges, to comply with the same laws and rules, and to be competitive on equal terms. Those who work in companies also enjoy security when it's a real job. Last week I debated with a colleague of the Minister. It was Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. We were talking about the black taxi business. Madam President, I would like The answers are very similar. I do not doubt the ministers' ambitions to overcome this, but the answers are very similar. The challenges are about the same. There's a black market where you make a lot of money just cheating. Then it is our political task – and as long as we have this government, made up of social democrats and environmentalists, it is ultimately this government and the minister's responsibility – to ensure that this is addressed. My opinion is that much feels like empty talk. You're supposed to follow the question. You should look at this. There are investigations going on and so on. But there are very little concrete answers as to what you intend to do. The most concrete thing I understand in the Minister's reply to me concerns the condition of supervisors. The Alliance government reduced the number of mentoring conditions that each individual can have to 15. Like the Minister, we have noted that this was not a sufficient measure. Therefore, on two occasions during this term of office, the Moderates have proposed to further reduce this. The Minister's party, the Social Democrats, has voted against this, among other things. But we have proposed this so that we can get to the problems that we have. There are also several good proposals from the Swedish Transport Schools Association that are well worth looking at. It is a restriction of the condition of the wrist, as we Moderates have proposed. It's also about getting to the signage. They suggest that you could have a red license plate. There's a lot on that list. It is not least a question of more stringent penalties for this type of crime. It is often very difficult to prove, Madam President. A great deal of cooperation between the various authorities is required. But you have to start at some end. My question to the Minister is: what action can the Minister himself intend to take? The whole package of measures is already on the table. There's nothing you have to wait for. This is not a new problem. What could the Minister possibly do?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-608	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, for your commitment! I share this and I think it is good that several members of the Swedish Parliament are involved in driving tests, road safety and, for that matter, black driving schools. Of course, concrete proposals are not always lacking. I will honestly say that sometimes you can spontaneously say: Yes, but then you can limit it to one or two conditions. That would be enough. But then we need to remember that it was thought that the proposal made by the Alliance Government for a limit to 15 would have a certain effect. It turned out that it was rather the opposite. I will not judge the preparatory work that was done in the face of that change. However, I am anxious to wait at least for the authorities that have followed the reform so that they can draw the right conclusions before we proceed with proposals. Otherwise, in the worst case scenario, we could make it even more difficult for the authorities to control black driving school activities. We need to know that we're doing the right things. I think that is the starting point. Then there is no lack of concrete action in the policy areas for which I am responsible. I mentioned increased possibilities for driving licences with CSN funding. I talked about a broad review of the whole driver training system – this is something that the national associations of transport schools and many others are very keen on. It is also, of course, about the increased cooperation that exists between the Swedish National Agency for Economic Crimes, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish National Board for National Ransports, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Administration. I think this is incredibly important. It is gratifying that Edward Riedl, who is moderate, thinks it is good if we get even more tools to tackle tax evasion. This has not been the case in history. In the years of the alliance government, the bourgeois government very often refrained from making the right efforts to combat tax evasion. During the time of this government, the Finance Committee has failed to support some proposals that might otherwise have given Finansinspektionen or other authorities the opportunity to improve control and prevent tax evasion. We're gonna make sure people do the right thing. We will ensure that the driving schools that act in a fair manner are not competed out through unserious competition. The development we have seen with black driving schools or, for that matter, illegal commercial traffic, as the black taxi business is, is not acceptable. That is why I want us to develop more instruments to get to grips with this and to provide the right basis to curb such developments in a better way. That is one of the reasons why we are now carrying out a review and preparing proper bases for this. But it is also, of course, a question of the police having the resources to make strikes and concerted efforts. Sometimes it is not about the police doing this themselves but together with the Swedish Tax Agency, Försäkringskassan or others. Therefore, the addition of resources to the police has been important. In the budget, we are now giving the police more resources than they have requested. I believe – and this is my hope – that it will mean that we can make the business more efficient properly. But then we have to make sure that we give the right tools, the right legal tools, to get to the black driving school business. Again, I appreciate Edward Riedl's commitment. I myself am deeply committed to the issue of stopping the black driving schools. We know that those who go to an established and approved driving school and who are also self-driving with a large proportion of supervised lessons have better opportunities to become good drivers or drivers and to pass the driving tests that we have. In case any listener does not make this connection, I would like to say that the point of using CSN loans to give more opportunities to take a driving licence is that this is only possible if you go to an established and approved driving school. In this way, we will benefit an industry that I would like to see taking greater responsibility for driver training in the future.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-617	Madam President, I would like It is good that we are getting into this, because ultimately it is about road safety issues. Those who receive adequate training from someone who is approved will help us to get fewer dead and seriously injured in traffic. From that there are many perspectives. But these issues are also ultimately about tax morality. For those who listen, I would just like to correct the Minister, who tried to make a point of the Alliance government not wanting to frame those who escaped taxes. It was just the opposite. We fought very hard to sign agreements with different countries. Anders Borg also fought hard around interest rate spinners, where companies in different ways and with different arrangements tried to take money out of the country and avoid taxes. On this point, Madam President, I regret to say that I have to correct the Minister. There he is simply wrong. Then we may have different views on the matter about different parts. But let us be clear about tax standards. It is ultimately a matter of ensuring that the responsible companies, who pay the relatively high taxes we have in Sweden, who pay their fees and who comply with the laws and regulations we have, are protected. They're the ones to be protected. We will protect the people who work in the companies that behave and who receive real contractual pay and pay taxes on the salary they receive. If we can't do it, we can't do the welfare we have. Somewhere the money for our schools, our hospitals and all other common welfare will come from. Then we cannot have a society in which black activities spread out in the case of taxis, driving schools and other things. We have a responsibility to put an end to this as soon as possible. As far as the condition of supervisors is concerned, I find it very difficult to understand the link the Minister makes, but there is certainly one. Would this in any way make it more difficult? It is a question of increasing the risk of detection, Madam President. You cannot have a person in the car who does not have a driver's license and you have a driver's license if you do not have a driver's licence. If you have police, they can catch that kind of activity, because it's not unknown. Let us be clear about this! In every place where this occurs, there is fairly good control from various authorities, including the law enforcement authorities, in which these laws are violated. The problem is to frame them. The manual permissions are part of this. If a person without a driver's license drives a car with someone without a driver's license, the police can act. That is the point of this. The Minister and I have exactly the same view: of course we must have a lot of policemen who are capable of doing that job. This is problematic. D a listener should remember that this government since it took office for three and a half years has talked about how much you invest in the police, but the fact is that the number of police officers has decreased every year. After three and a half years with an S-MP government, we have fewer policemen than when this government took office – fewer police officers who can investigate crimes and fewer traffic policemen who can be on the road. It is a major problem if you want to tackle this type of crime. However, in what the Minister says in his previous reply, I understand that he has an interest in trying to get to grips with it, and some of these things already exist. These are not new proposals. They have been around for a long time, and I think the Minister can take a look at them. The Swedish Transport Schools Association, which organises the traffic schools that are now very, very hard hit by this black business, has a lot of good suggestions, and I think the Minister should look at them.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-624	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me just comment on the issue of the number of police officers. I come from Växjö, where we have a police academy that we started because we saw that we needed more police schools in Sweden. In the recent years of the alliance government, the number of police officers was reduced. I think it was eventually 70 who went to the police academy. Despite the fact that the Police Authority warned that there will be a shortage of properly trained workers, and although we said that we need to train more policemen, the Alliance government pulled down to training places, just as it did in the case of nurses and other courses where there was a shortage. Now it's 350 going to the police academy, and we're starting two new police colleges. If Edward Riedl wants to make a point of having fewer policemen, he should therefore consider his own and the alliance government's responsibility when the training resources were so severely reduced and the precondition for recruitment was reduced. Let's turn this around. Now there are more police employees than ever. We are ensuring that the number of police officers is increased by greatly expanding the number of training places, and I believe that is beneficial for good police activity. When it comes to traffic school activities, I think we share the same starting point: We will make sure that we have good traffic school operations so that serious actors are promoted. That is why I have been following closely the joint initiatives of the Finnish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency to make a proper review of the entire driver training system. There are, in brackets, some interesting projects, such as digital teaching protocols and some other things that can improve the impact of education and perhaps also modernise it. I have also met the Swedish Trafikskolors Riksförbund and have taken note of many good suggestions that we intend to return to. Because I am very keen that we should use the serious actors that exist and that we should have a driver training that provides incentives for people to turn there for a good driver training. I spoke in an interpellation debate a few hours ago about road safety, where Sweden is the world leader, and about the zero vision, where we are now breaking new records, if I may put it that way, in fewer dead and injured in traffic. Much is, of course, about the development of vehicles, but it is also about the road safety work and the culture we have. The basis for the approach to your responsibility as a driver is the traffic training you have. It is therefore important that it is serious and thorough and that those who slip past or organise illegal activities alongside it are punished. We are going to stop this activity and reject the false driver's tests that some are showing, and we are going to ensure in every way that serious actors can have better opportunities to operate. I am prepared to work in this direction with both Edward Riedl and others, because that is important. It is important for road safety, and it is also important for those who are now young and are going to train them to have reasonable conditions. For example, we can arrange this with these CSN loans, but they should also have good and educational supervisors who use new technology. In this way they can get into traffic and a safe traffic environment. So there are several processes going on that I have described here. I am confident that there will be more sharp proposals, and it is only good if there is broad agreement on this, because it would be even better for road safety.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-634	Madam President, I would like Let me start at that end when it comes to the number of police officers. I have had this debate with the Minister's colleagues too, and it is true that before this government took office we had more than 20 000 police officers in Sweden. After three and a half years, we have fewer than 20,000 police officers. It's a fact. It is very easy to find out, because it is available in all public statistics. I've also heard about all the bets you make on the police. That's not what I'm saying. I've heard all about police training and how to expand it. The problem is that policemen leave the profession as never before, not to retire, but because they are dissatisfied with parts of what they face in their professional role, not least their salaries. There are 3 000 police officers, Madam President, who have left since this government took over government power, and that is why we have fewer police officers, fewer traffic police officers and less opportunities to curb crime, even though more people are now being trained. It is from this that I have awakened the various interpellations regarding black driving schools and black taxi operations. This affects serious entrepreneurs who cannot compete with those who do not pay taxes. In a high-tax society, it is very lucrative, and that means that we must be very good at detecting those who cheat, otherwise long-term tax standards in our country are being eroded, and I think neither I nor the Minister want to see that. With regard to the issues I have raised today, I see a number of things. I do not interpret the Minister as reluctant to any of them, but some are about increased penalties, because today the penalties are far too low for parts of this. My firm view is that one way to give the police the tools to actually accomplish something is to make sure that you strangle the large amount of wrist conditions that you have today. What the Minister mentioned about digital protocols is also something that is being highlighted by the STR. Thank you for the debate.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-639	Madam President, I would like A brief correction on police officers: As I said, there are more police employees now than before. The reason why we have fewer police officers is, if nothing else, that education was severely reduced during the time of the alliance government. Now we start new police colleges, and more are being trained than ever. That's good, because we need more cops. That was a pattern we could see during the time of the alliance government, and now we have 100,000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market that cannot be filled due to skills shortages. They are not simple jobs; they are qualified jobs. After years of underinvestment in the education system, we therefore need to invest in education. We do this with knowledge transfer, adult university, universities of applied sciences and higher education initiatives. This is important, not least perhaps because more people can train as drivers – an advanced job. I noted that Moderates' new party leader Ulf Kristersson expressed himself as if truck drivers were a simple job. I'm very much against that. It's a qualified job with heavy responsibilities. It is about logistics, about new technologies, about transport services, and it is also a job that will become more complicated in the future with the digitalisation that is going on in the field of transport. Therefore, it is important that we provide the best conditions so that you get a good education and a good continuing and further training. As I said, I am prepared to take a great many steps to ensure that we stop and curb a development with black driving schools. However, I still want the right basis before I go on to reduce the number of wrist conditions. I myself felt spontaneously that it sounded like a good measure, as I said, but I also note that, according to the authorities and the police, when the Alliance carried it out it had the opposite effect. I do not wish to contribute to this, and that is why I would like to wait for a better basis before we take a final position. I'm prepared to do whatever it takes to curb the development of black driving schools. We'll make sure we have a good driver's training in this country. Edward Riedl and I can certainly agree on that.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-645	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me why the government does not want to support a relationship that is central to the business community in Norrland and which creates a natural contact between Sweden and Finland. Let me first make it clear that the application that the government recently decided to submit without further action concerns investments in port and not the financing of a new Kvarken ferry. I agree with Edward Riedl that the link creates a natural contact between Sweden and Finland. However, I would like to remind you that a starting point for Swedish transport policy for a long time has been that interregional and international transport should be conducted primarily without state subsidies.
i-X9ptXyp37WKKVZK1BeTEzV	The measures covered by the application are those where the financial responsibility lies with the port owner Umeå Municipality as the owner of the municipal company Inab and its subsidiary Umeå Hamn AB. Furthermore, the measures in the application do not fall within the purposes of the financial framework for measures in the State transport infrastructure during the period 2018-2029. Finally, I would like to stress that, in addition to supporting with Finland a project application for co-financing from the Connecting Europe Facility, the Alliance Government did not take any further initiatives concerning the Kvarken link and investments in a new ferry. I also note that the project endorsed by the Alliance Government did not involve any future state commitments.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-649	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Kvarken project involves, among other things, a new ferry that will be operated with gas and subsequent investments in the port environment in order to be able to operate a ferry with gas. Before EU entry, there were approximately 1 million travellers per year between Umeå and Vaasa – of course due to cheap tickets due to duty-free sales. After entry, with a much worse ferry, the number of travellers fell to 45 000 annual passengers. Let me say, Madam President, that before this happened there was a great exchange between Västerbotten and Ostrobothnia, the various parts of Sweden and Finland. It concerned education at the university, staff supply to Norrland University Hospital, health care collaborations and tourism. All this was affected – except for freight transport. Thanks to increased regional engagement, not least from Umeå municipality, there is today a slightly newer, slightly better and safer ferry. Today there are some 200 000 annual travellers. At least as pleasing is the speed of freight traffic as well. Between 2016 and 2017, freight transport increased by 16 per cent. It is 100 km by sea between Umeå and Vaasa. If you go around the Gulf of Bothnia, it is the land road 800 km. It saves a lot of time and money to cross the sea. There is a strong commitment and a strong will on the part of the state in Finland, and you want Swedish help in this. The Alliance government, as the Minister described, chose to support the first and original application for this project. No money was sent, just as the minister describes. Let us be honest about this. But I was there when the project was finalized, and it wasn't easy. What the Minister of Infrastructure knew in the Alliance Government was that if part one is implemented it will later along the way cost money. Then the state must be most closely involved. This changed when the government changed. This government has chosen twice, in different parts of the Kvarken project, not to help. You can dress that any way you want, but this government doesn't want to bet on Norrland. Let me remind those listening to the debate that the attitude of the government today not to support ferry services between Umeå and Vaasa, between Sweden and Finland in the northern environment, did not exist before the elections. The person who was a traffic policy spokesperson, Anders Ygeman, promised a strong commitment if the Social Democrats were to get the government power. The strong commitment has now resulted, as I understand it, in two nos to help us. Remember, too, that the ferry service further south between Sweden and Finland still has the possibility of duty-free sales if you stop at Åland, which means that there is a much better ferry connection in between. Madam President, I would like We want this government to take the responsibility it should reasonably take for Norrland and ensure that we also have a functioning ferry service to our eastern neighbour Finland.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-660	Madam President, I would like This government really takes its responsibility not only for Norrland but for the whole of Sweden. We have seen a real change in government policy in conditions to invest in the whole country. Whether we are talking about infrastructure or whether we are talking about jobs, there is now a development in which we include the whole country, unlike the concentration and urbanisation that were so clearly going on during the time of the alliance government. Government agencies are now being relocated throughout the country. Government service centres are located and government agencies are relocated because we think it is important for them to exist throughout the country. When we plan for the Norrbotnia Line, however, I note that Edward Riedl's political party friends instead say that the entire Norrbotnia Line is a declaration of war against Stockholm – according to Kristoffer Tamson. Instead, we should invest in money for the railways where people live and travel and not for trees in Norrland. I do not share that view. I think it is important that we politicians, not least we in the Swedish parliament and also those who have political assignments regionally, take responsibility for the development of the whole country. We do this through big investments not least in Norrland. Now the government will finally take a position on the transport plan and the national plan in April, but the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal already contains several important initiatives for Norrland. A no on an application can sometimes be about how it has been formulated. The application that the government refused concerned matters that are the responsibility of Umeå Municipality. I am somewhat unsure whether I am going to interpret Edward Riedl as changing the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality and that it will henceforth be the state that will take responsibility for the investments in the port area as well. It's possible. I recently brought representatives of all the ports of Sweden to a large hearing because I think we have not listened enough to the ports when we have talked about infrastructure investments. It was a welcome meeting and a welcome discussion when the representatives of these ports saw themselves visible and got confirmation of the important role they have in the Swedish transport system. But the division of responsibilities is clear between the responsibilities of local port owners, whether private or shared through the municipality, and what is actually the responsibility of the state. In the application that came from Umeå it was clear that it was for a purpose that the state cannot contribute to. On the other hand, it is a good thing that we continue to develop the connection, whether it is by sea or by land road in Norrland. The infrastructure plan that we intend to decide on in April means that we can spend 100 billion more on infrastructure investments than the previous government could do. There will still be tough priorities. Not least, I believe that one of the main priorities must be to ensure that we can both have a good supply of labour in the country and also stimulate the further development of freight transport. That is why both rail traffic that meets the climate requirements and ferry traffic will be interesting. That is one of the reasons why I am also following closely the question of Kvarken traffic. I am keen that we continue to develop Swedish shipping. Thanks to the tonnage tax, flagging increases. We have broken the trend with the flagging out of Swedish ships, and the Swedish merchant fleet is increasing. I am keen on the good cooperation that exists for blue growth so that the actors can continue to grow. Of course, I will also work to increase shipping in Sweden. Whether this means that the Kvarken project is being developed properly or not depends fundamentally on the commercial and financial conditions for which stakeholders other than the Government are responsible. I will, of course, follow this closely. This is important for Sweden, and it is also important for Norrland.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-668	Madam President, I would like Let me first begin where the Minister began his speech. I'm almost provoked when I hear government representatives say they're betting on Norrland. The fuel tax, the diesel tax and the vehicle tax are increased. Travel deductions have been reduced and flight taxes will now be introduced as from 1 April. It is not April jokes, Madam President, but today's truth. In addition, this government – at least parts of it – wants to introduce a kilometre tax before this term of office is over. Why am I saying this? Because all of this is anti-Norrland policy. It's treasure from a distance. It is taxes that hit Norrland harder than any other part of the country. I don't think this is good politics. But whoever listened to the previous debate heard that the Minister also said that it was investing in the police. After three and a half years of S-MP government, we have fewer policemen than we had when it took over government power. Then the minister tries to make a small turn and say a lot of police workers. I am talking about police officers, Madam President. Neither this minister nor any other minister can change public statistics. That's what it looks like. There are fewer policemen today than when this government took office. I would warn those who hear this government to say that it will invest in their areas, because it seems to be the way that when this government invests, it will be less money in the end. With regard to the Norrbotnia Line, which this government has promised before the elections and is now promising to implement, I would just like to say the following: I have still not seen a single metre of railway rail. It will be built in Umeå, and I live very close where it will happen. Not a meter of railway tracks are laid. The promises from the three red-green parties were that as soon as you had won the election, the day after, you would start digging. That's what it sounded like. Three and a half years have passed, and if they had had the ambition they had started to build a long time ago. It won't take long. I hope I am wrong, Madam President, because I would be very happy if the Norrbotnia Line were to be built. But I don't think it'll make it before election day. I believe it will be postponed indefinitely, and I believe that this government will not keep that promise either. But as I said, I hope I'm wrong. As I said, what I am putting this interpellation about is about the Kvarken project, a functioning ferry connection between Umeå and Vaasa that connects these two parts of Sweden and Finland with each other. These are parts that have historically had a very large exchange in terms of education, health care and tourism and where today we have very strong growth in the transport of goods between our countries. In southern Sweden, in the Stockholm region, boats on their way to Finland can pass the Åland Islands. Then there will be duty-free sales, and then you can finance the business and push for cheap tickets in southern Sweden. That is what this government thinks is good; it nods well. I don't mind, either, but I don't understand why this government doesn't want to invest in northern Sweden. Why can't you consider helping to some extent with the investments in Norrland? I do not understand that, Madam President. We have seen very little of all these initiatives – very little. However, if the Minister has a different opinion, he will very much tell me where the railway tracks are that I have happened to miss and where all these investments in Norrland are located, because I have not seen them.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-679	Madam President, I would like That is probably the case, and I believe that those following this debate realise that they see what they want to see. I see the investments we make in Norrland and throughout the country. I see them, whether we are talking about relocated authorities, state service agencies, rural billions, broadband expansion or, for that matter, infrastructure investments. I see food strategies and many other initiatives. I see the highest level of employment ever, that people have jobs and confidence in the future, and that new businesses are being created, unlike what it was like under the previous government. But we have a whole electoral movement to debate, Edward Riedl, so let's leave it – for now anyway. I think it's important to remember that when duty-free sales disappeared, and we can't recreate it, part of the basis of the commercial traffic that existed disappeared, and that makes it difficult. I have no objection to new traffic opportunities being created, but the applications that come to the government's table I have to deal with on the basis of how they are formulated. Again, Edward Riedl himself does not answer the question of whether it intends to change the division of responsibilities between state and municipality, whether the state should then take greater responsibility for the port area or whether we are even going to nationalise the ports. I don't think Edward Riedl would suggest that. I am keen that we continue to develop Swedish shipping. It is important for Sweden, and it is important to meet the climate challenges. With regard to the Norrbotnia Line and not a meter of rail, we should remember that one of the reasons why the rails are not there is that the Norrbotnia Line, which was part of a national plan, was lifted by the Alliance Government. Of course there will be no design. Now with the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal, there is a lot to say that there are other conditions – and no one should doubt the government's willingness to invest in the railways, because it is important. Edward Riedl may have been wrong on some other issues, and he may be wrong on this too. Nevertheless, I believe that Edward Riedl and I share the view that better relations need to be developed in northern Sweden between us and our neighbour Finland but also between us and Norway. We have a challenge in improving the infrastructure cross-sectorally or out-of-the-way between Sweden, Norway and Finland. We can meet the challenges of the coming decades to improve infrastructure on the other side, but we have major challenges in improving relations between our neighbours. In this direction, of course, I want to work, because it will be important not only for Umeå and Norrland but for the whole of Sweden because important transport routes will go that way in the future. Then we will come to the last point I would like to make in this context unsearched. This is probably more in the context of consumer information, but I think it is also interesting for Edward Riedl to take part. In this context, we are talking about good strategies – how to ensure that in Sweden we have a comprehensive strategy for the road of goods, perhaps from the 74-tonne truck that takes forest raw materials from the hinterland of Norrland or Västerbotten to be transhipped to rail or to shipping. The government is now working on a good strategy and will present it at the same time as the national plan for investments and strategic efforts to strengthen Swedish good capacity can go hand in hand. This is important, because Sweden is a small, export-dependent industrial country. In Sweden, the industry is not fundamentally gone, but it is actually on strong growth. This is where we grow in capacity. This is where we can make the transition. This requires a well-functioning transport system, in which case better coordination of goods is needed, to optimise the freight system and to find the right drivers for the investments that need to be made and, not least, to continue a development in which the flagging of shipping increases. In that spirit, I want to work.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-691	Madam President, I would like I have heard more ministers than the Minister for Infrastructure talk about how difficult it was to take over Europe's most well-managed economy after the financial crisis. But, as I said, we can save it for other debates as well as for the electoral movement. I would like to ask the Minister, when he says that, how he wants Umeå to write his application. If he now intends to support this, I would like to hear the Minister explain how he would like the application to be written. If the application is wrong, the minister could help at least his party colleagues in Umeå Municipality and in Umeå City Council to write the application so that it becomes right. Let me remind you – there the Minister is guessing – that I absolutely do not want to nationalise either ports or ferries. In fact, I do not think the Minister would want that either if I were to be completely frank. However, it is in this way that the ferry traffic that exists in southern Sweden and that passes the Åland Islands enjoys completely different conditions than the one that exists in Norrland. Based on this, the Swedish alliance government before the elections thought that we should be involved in this. The Minister's own party colleague Anders Ygeman, who was then a traffic policy spokesperson, was related to the same rules as this minister says makes it impossible. Yet he promised a strong commitment from a frightened S-government. That commitment, I can tell you, no longer exists. Twice this has been rejected. Despite promises made before the elections, despite the fact that the alliance government was a part of the promise, and despite the fact that the Finnish government was a part of the promise, this government says no not only once but twice. Those are facts. The Minister will be very happy to answer that. Ideally, he will have to answer if he has any tips on how to write the application so that this government can imagine to invest at least some crown on Norrland. We have not seen much of the second, Madam President.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-698	Madam President, I would like I note that we have a slightly different conceptions of history and certainly different descriptions of reality. I am one of those who think that we have shown that we are prepared to invest in infrastructure investments in order to develop maritime transport, but also to look at the potential for strengthening, not least, ferry links. But again, we need to be careful about what the division of responsibilities actually looks like. I note that Edward Riedl himself is not prepared to change the division of responsibilities. This means that even Edward Riedl, if he had been Minister of Infrastructure, would have felt obliged to say no to the application that existed. It is of course important to find the right conditions for long-term sustainable traffic. This also requires a commitment from the Finnish side. I noted that the Finnish Minister for Infrastructure Anne Berner, whom I have met on several occasions, recently spoke about the financing of ferry services. It is not the case that the final decisions have been made in Finland. Nor is it that a large amount of funding has been promised from the Finnish side. But there are, of course, discussions going on in Finland, just like in Sweden. Although there are 100 billion more, tough priorities will be required. I am keen that the investments we are making in the future should be made with the right priorities based on what is most effective. There should be a good regional distribution of resources and investment, and they should have a broad regional base. That is why it has been important for me to listen to regional actors. When they represented northern Sweden and prioritised the most important efforts, it was important to me for the government's future position, just as it has been with all the other regions. For a long time it has been underinvestment in Swedish infrastructure. It will take time to catch up. However, we are well on the way because we now have a government that, with a good economy in the country and high employment, can afford to invest in infrastructure.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-706	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me questions in the field of remote control of air traffic control, with regard to safety, economics and vulnerability. Since all the questions asked concern the recently concluded agreement on remote air traffic management between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority, I choose to answer them in a context. It is the State-owned company Swedavia which owns the airports concerned. Swedavia makes decisions on how the company's operations should be conducted. Swedavia has a mandate from the owners and operates within the general regulations applicable to state-owned companies in general. The Swedish Civil Aviation Administration performs air traffic control for Swedavia. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority and Swedavia have signed agreements for remote air traffic management from a common central hub for the airports in Kiruna, Östersund, Umeå and Malmö. The agreement is based on the assessment that a digital execution of the service benefits the activities of both parties and contributes to the economic objectives of the respective organisation. The agreement between Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has been concluded following a decision by the respective board and after referral to the Swedish Armed Forces. So it is not the government that has taken a decision on the matter. The responsibility for the safe introduction of remote air traffic control lies with the companies and authorities concerned. The introduction takes place within the framework of current regulations and is subject to the Swedish Transport Agency's approval and supervision. Such an examination is carried out for each individual case. There is therefore no difference in the safety requirements between remote air traffic management and traditional tower services. I can also note that Edward Riedel's view that, in the near future, it is about one air traffic controller managing several airports at the same time is not correct. I would also like to point out that, for the government, issues of centralisation and regional aspects are important in an overall perspective. In terms of vulnerability and redundancy, these are issues that are continuously being followed both within the agency and within the Government Office. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is covered by the regulation(2015:1052) on emergency preparedness and security measures in case of increased preparedness. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority submits a risk and vulnerability analysis to the Government Office every two years. The analysis is the basis for assessment and action.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-714	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I have made three interpellations involving different parts of what is about remote traffic control. Possibly this is another part of this government's ambition to move jobs from the rest of the country into Stockholm. My question really concerns two parts. One is if it gets cheaper with remote control air traffic control. The second is if safety is increased. I have read a lot of what the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's former Gd Olle Sundin has written about how it will be significantly cheaper with this business. Others have set out in this. The website of LFV and Saab also highlights increased safety as part of remote air traffic control. Madam President, I would like Now that this has been started and signed, I have asked LFV how much cheaper it will be with this type of business. The answer is that I will not know, because these are business secrets that cannot be entrusted to a Member of Parliament in any way. More than 170 air traffic controllers have been involved in a joint debate article, highlighting the risks associated with the introduction of remote air traffic control. The same has been done by the Safety Committee of the Pilot Association, i.e. the representatives of the pilots. Then the question is, where are we? Nobody's gonna tell me if it's gotten cheaper. But much is said anonymously, Madam President. There is much in this that is very strange. The flight is normally characterised by a high level of transparency and a willingness to report the slightest deviation in order to build stronger safety. Here, however, staff working in the towers and elsewhere and working ultimately on the safety of all air passengers perceives that they are being gagged. If you want, you can read a lot about this on different media pages. I hear very anonymously, among other things that it should have become more expensive. I'd like to find out the facts. That is why I have asked the LFV what the situation is, but they are not going to answer this. The pilots in the aircraft and the air traffic controllers in the towers have many reservations about what ultimately concerns aviation safety. If it becomes more expensive, or at least not cheaper, and those who work in the business, that is to say those who travel by air from the towers and the pilots who drive our aircraft, have objections, Madam President- what is the benefit of this? Why do you do that? Why does the Minister not say: Stop and prove, wait a minute! What's going on? Instead, I perceive that this is being defended. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister is very simple, and I hope I can get an answer to it. Can the Minister guarantee that this will be cheaper and that, with these changes, air traffic safety in Sweden at least has been maintained? I also see a non-answer, Madam President, as a clear answer. Either you can guarantee this or something is beginning to be a little strange. It is a very simple question, and I hope for a simple answer from the Minister. Can he guarantee this?
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-721	Madam President, I would like Of course, I cannot comment on what is reported by anonymous sources or the like. Nevertheless, it is worrying if there is a strong concern about the technological shift that is taking place in aviation. I am, of course, quite prepared to listen to that. I realise that aviation in Sweden, but also internationally, is facing the same digital challenge as many other modes of transport. I myself have recently been up in the air traffic controller tower of Landvetter and impressed by the work of the air traffic controllers. But I also see how new technology and digitalisation there and elsewhere can mean safer traffic, increased redundancy and increased opportunities to handle difficult traffic situations. That is also the starting point, I think, when both the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia want to invest. They do not do that to impair road safety or air safety. Nor is it done to increase the cost, but I assume that this initiative will be taken within these activities in order to see opportunities for development and to see that we can have safer air traffic and better opportunities to maintain service for longer periods at smaller airports. At the same time, one should be aware that the questions have not yet been settled, and that is why I may perhaps disappoint the interpellier a little. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that has to test this, and they test air traffic control remotely on the same basis as they test all air traffic management operations. There is no difference here depending on the technology used, but the same functions must be ensured. The air traffic control that we have at a distance today is the one that takes place in Sundsvall, and it is not Swedavia that performs it. In Sundsvall it is done by remote handling of Örnsköldsvik Airport. I'm going there myself and visiting the business to get a picture of the conditions and how this opens up new opportunities but certainly also some of them can be experienced to increase uncertainty. That is something that I take very seriously. If we are to make technology investments and a digital shift, it must be in order to increase security. In this context, I assume that Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration have involved the Swedish Armed Forces in their contacts. The Swedish Armed Forces have to this extent almost vetoed, which meant, among other things, that they refused to make corresponding investments in Visby. The Swedish Armed Forces' need for safe air traffic and redundancy must come first not only in these times but generally. It is part of the test of the investments to be made. The second is the regional policy aspects and the impact they can have on the conditions for maintaining good air services throughout the country. As things stand, it is the Swedish Transport Agency that has to test. I'm not going to go ahead with the Authority's examination of this. On the other hand, the starting point must reasonably be that it will be safer and probably also more effective. That is what the activities themselves highlight. To the extent that Edward Riedl has other facts, it is good if they can be presented. I intend to do what I can to follow this closely to ensure that we act in a way that makes us have good service, increased redundancy and increased safety in Swedish aviation. It is about the fact that we can cope with a more difficult safety environment in the future and that the investments we make are made to improve accessibility throughout the country. It's necessary. That will be my starting point when there are issues that eventually end up on the table of the government.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-729	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear about saying that I am absolutely not against technology development. Technology development is often a prerequisite for making services both cheaper and better for all of us. I'm not going to go into all the details, because we don't have time for that in this format. For example, I have been told for a long time that the cameras see more than the human eye does, and that is why this technology is so great. But I have not met an air traffic controller who agrees with this. On the contrary, much less is seen. You do not see birds, and you see much shorter distances than you do the naked eye. You don't get 360 views. You get a lot of deteriorations in redundancy. Many deteriorations in capacity are expected if technology is introduced. These are classified protocols from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and no answers from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration if it becomes cheaper or more expensive with remote control that they have promised before. There are 170 people among the country's air traffic controllers – far more than those affected by the decision, let me be clear about that – who have strong objections to this. As I said, pilots through the Pilot Association's Safety Committee also see problems with this. If it doesn't get cheaper, my idea is why they are now building a new building here in Stockholm where they will be able to collect 20 air traffic control towers from the rest of Sweden. It is almost the entire flight capacity of Swedavia and a large part of the other airports. Everything will be centralised to Stockholm. I'm not a military strategist either. But it seems strange to me that some kind of security thinking for the country is being increased in this way. I think that collecting all air traffic control in a building should reasonably increase the risk. But the Swedish Armed Forces have not been asked about this. Four airports have been asked, but capacity is being built for 20 airports. I have no idea what the LFV has to think about this, but I could guess. Madam President, I would like I think the secret anonymous conversations that the Minister wants me to report are a problem. This is the first time since I have dealt with aviation issues, it is at least eight years, as it is. There is transparency and transparency in aviation. Every little problem is reported to ensure that we do not have any deaths in air traffic. It seems to be sidelined in this process. That is why those who have been gagged feel that they have no other channels but to talk in other ways. The 170 air traffic controllers signed anonymously because they do not dare to be named. I'd be worried if I was a minister. Those in the system, those in charge of air traffic and those in charge of our planes say: Stop and prove! Wait a minute. There are some objections. Then as the minister in charge, I'd stop and think a little bit. Madam President, I would like There are opportunities for the Minister to ask questions of this kind that one does not answer when a Member of Parliament brings them. The Minister could ask the supplementary questions. How much cheaper will it be? The Minister could receive an answer from the Authority. Then the Minister could possibly also give me and other answers to that. Madam President, I would like There is much about this that I find very strange. If it becomes cheaper and you raise security, you do not need to keep secret records, settle around with nice words and refuse to answer questions. My opinion is that when you do that there is something to hide. The question is what? If I were the minister responsible, I would find out, Madam President.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-738	Madam President, I would like I assume that, in so far as secret protocols are kept, they do so either for purely commercial reasons or for safety reasons. Detailed information on how we control our flight and the models we handle our infrastructure in the air may not always come to everyone's attention, not least in these sensitive times of security policy. I assume that is the starting point if you now choose that confidentiality evidence a. Of course, there is an opportunity to test that confidentiality. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that when I asked Mr Riedl to speak about his concerns or his reasons, I certainly did not intend to ask for sources. That is absolutely not my intention. However, it is important to me. I have used the time since I became a minister to meet a number of actors in aviation and all modes of transport. I have visited air traffic controllers and tried to get a picture of the challenges we face. It is about the risks and opportunities of a technology shift. I will be honest and say that I, too, am asking a lot of those questions. I should do that intellectually. Does it involve opportunities or increased sensitivity and vulnerability? Does this mean more efficiency, or could it eventually lead to an increase in costs? We must have that question. I have also called and had a dialogue with the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration to get a picture of the basis for decisions that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority had when they accepted in dialogue with Swedavia the assignment that Swedavia wanted the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration to respond to. It is important that we follow this closely because there is a general interest. It is crucial that people feel confident about the technological changes that are taking place in aviation. This is why it is important that the Swedish Transport Agency tests it in the same way as it tests all other technical activities. You should not make any difference or have lower requirements just to digitise the issue, but it is the same tough requirements that should exist in aviation. I also share the view that it is very important that we maintain the transparent culture that exists in aviation. You should dare to talk about the fears that exist and report deviations. Not least in a development where not only aviation is digitized, but we see drone development in the future, it will be even more important. There I know that Edward Riedl and I share the view and have the same strong commitment to maintaining that safety culture in a good way. It is important that we take this into account from a variety of points of view. I assume that when the Swedish Armed Forces have examined the data from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia, they have made the right balance about what are important positions from the Swedish Armed Forces' point of view. Once again, this is an issue in which we have every reason to follow developments. No one should hesitate about the government's regional policy ambitions to ensure that we have good accessibility throughout the country. A rather long journey remains before the agreement reaches the expectations of the operators. There shall be legal trials, and they shall be carried out both financially and technically. There are many of us who will follow this in the future. I will definitely do it, and I have the impression that Edward Riedl will do the same.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-747	Madam President, I would like Let me first say, so that there is no misunderstanding, that I did not realise that the Minister was asking for sources. I was just trying to describe the difficulty in extracting the material when people feel they have gags. The Minister and everyone else who is interested can read about this on SVT's website, for example, where the whole series of reviews of this is available. The media have also carried out audits in which they have questioned both the economic calculations and other parts of this. There's a lot to share there. My question remains, Madam President. It is ultimately about this: If you cannot show that it is cheaper and when a large part of Flygsverige, who will use this system, has objections and you prove this type of people with gag I have a little difficulty understanding why you go further. Then something's not right. If I had been a minister, I would have taken this very seriously. Madam President, I would like My view is that as an individual Member of Parliament, I cannot go any further in this because I can be met with these kinds of different answers, which make it impossible for me to know what the situation is. On the other hand, my appeal to my party and to my friends in the Alliance will be that action should be taken on this. My hope would have been that the Minister would take this responsibility because it is ultimately about both taxpayers' money and ultimately people and lives. That should be taken very seriously. I cannot understand this, because what the Minister described in his previous reply is that people's security should be taken seriously. But if you have a large part of Flygsverige against you with pilots and air traffic controllers who question this, perhaps you should stop, take a dialogue and try to move forward. That is my opinion and my call.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-751	Madam President, I would like I may not share the reality that there would be a division or strong resistance in the whole of Flygsverige to new technology. But there is uncertainty, and there are a lot of questions that need to be answered, mainly by Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. I assume that they will also do so in the course of the process. As I also said, the Transport Agency will review this. It is probably so important to ensure at all that you get permission to do what you intend to do. I am serious when I say that we are a government that takes seriously people's sense of security. That is one of the reasons why we are now also strengthening security. In the field of aviation, it may be important to mention in this context that we have added 40 million extra per year to the transport sector in order to increase civilian preparedness. The Finnish Transport Administration has management responsibilities, but this is a business that includes aviation as well as shipping, railway and other infrastructure. There we are now stepping up security efforts to ensure that we are more prepared if we are going to war or crisis times or if we are being attacked. There is no doubt that the infrastructure sector is the sector in which the risk of an attack can sometimes be high because it affects many people. We have seen this in international terrorism in recent years. This is one of the reasons why with new technology we can create better guarding opportunities and better opportunities to identify what is aimed at disrupting or sabotaging the business. Again, I believe that both Edward Riedl and I will follow this closely. I will also continue to immerse myself in the matter and to act when I find it necessary.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-756	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me how I plan to remedy the problem that private road associations are not able to hire the same operators as the Swedish Transport Administration for snow clearance and to ensure that snow clearance in Norrland will meet the requirements of the northern climate. On December 18, 2017, I replied to an essentially equivalent interpellation from Anders Åkesson. Since it has not been long since then, my answer today is basically the same as it was then. Individual road keepers are free to choose for themselves how to organise their winter road maintenance. To the extent that Trafikverket's procured contractors have the opportunity to offer also individual road keepers services with winter maintenance, this is quite possible and something that Trafikverket sees positively. There will then be a contractual relationship between the individual road carrier and the contractor. The fact that the winter road maintenance of our roads works is of great importance for both accessibility and road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency therefore imposes requirements on its contractors regarding how winter road maintenance is to be carried out and the standard to be achieved on the roads during the winter. The Finnish Transport Agency monitors the work of the contractors and ensures that what has been agreed, and for which the state also pays, is carried out. In recent years, the Finnish Transport Agency has developed new and modern methods and working methods to improve monitoring. However, the requirements for how and when the contractor will perform the winter road maintenance are the same as before. There has also been information in the media that the Finnish Transport Agency provides contractors with periodic penalty payments for occasional delays and that it has contributed to entrepreneurs not taking on assignments for the individual road keepers. I would therefore like to make it clear that the Finnish Transport Administration has informed me that in the case of penalty payments, an overall assessment is required. Isolated disturbances or situations that cannot be foreseen need to be investigated before a penalty payment can be made. There has never been a penalty payment for a ten-minute delay in these cases, and according to Trafikverket it is unlikely that it will. Of course, the contract and its requirements as a whole apply, but always on the basis of an overall assessment. This handling has always been applied by the Finnish Transport Administration and will continue to do so. If an investigation or event shows that the contractor has not systematically delivered what has been ordered, a penalty payment may be made on the basis of the current penalty payment model. The Finnish Transport Agency is gradually introducing these new methods and methods of follow-up in connection with procurements of winter road maintenance. Prior to the introduction, Trafikverket has had a dialogue with both the entrepreneurs and the National Association of Individual Roads. Dialogue with the National Association of Individual Roads has resulted in an action plan that includes a number of activities to proactively reduce the risk that individual road associations may be adversely affected. For example, Trafikverket informs individual road managers about ongoing procurements and how it may affect any contracts that the individual road carrier has with the current contractor. The Finnish Transport Agency can also provide advice to the road associations. However, geographical conditions may sometimes lead to the need in some cases for more far-reaching measures to allow for the coordination of snow clearance measures. This may, for example, relate to measures to plan jointly for synchronised procurements. I assume that further dialogue will be required on the basis of the information that has been provided. It is important that all parties see their opportunity to contribute to the solution of the issue. I intend to continue to follow the matter.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-765	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me start at the end that the perception you hear when talking to those who have handled snow clearance is that it has worked well in Norrland. The decision that has now been made with more time and minute monitoring via GPS mainly affects Norrbotten and Västerbotten, where you have many of these agreements. It is particularly in the hinterland and in sparsely populated areas that this hits hard. The view they have had in sparsely populated areas before is that there has been a good dialogue between the population, those who perform snow clearance and the Swedish Transport Administration. This worked, and now you're going to fix something that's not broken. That's what the Finnish Transport Administration is up to. Madam President, I would like I understand that things look different and that you need to have control over the agreements you have from the Swedish Transport Administration. Basically, I'm not against that. But it may have to look a little different in metropolitan areas than in rural areas. Those who drive these machines say that in the past they have plowed in concert and solved it practically, because that is how you have to do in sparsely populated areas. You have to work together to make it work. Then the question is: If this has worked before in sparsely populated areas, why are these changes being made? In the past, the individual road associations have been able to buy in. There has been a dialogue with Trafikverket about delays in the public road network – but it is the same people, Madam President, who are on the individual roads that will then use the state road network. These are the same people who need home help. They're the same people who work in the home service and they're leaving. They're the same people who need ambulance transportation. This is all connected, Madam President, and it is for these people that it is being snowed, not for the sake of the state itself, and now it is those people who are being hit by this. Madam President, I would like I don't know if you can swear in here, and I'm not gonna do it, but it's used profanity when you talk to people about this. Increased bureaucracy is something that is mentioned in rather tough terms by those who have been doing this for many years. People who have been snowing for 30 years are required to acquire a new Scandinavian competence to drive a plowcar. If you have been snowing in the interior of Norrland for 30 years, you may already know about how it works. It is felt that there are loads coming from above and an increase in bureaucracy, which means that this is complicated all the time. Now you should also have minute monitoring via GPS from Trafikverket, which means that you can't solve this for ordinary people. Madam President, I would like I am not seeking confrontation in this debate. My hope is that the Minister will resolve this. I have no reason to doubt the Minister on this. In fact, I am going to invite the Minister to Åsele to meet these people – both those who drive the snow clearance machines and those who are actually affected by these decisions. I think Trafikverket should come too. I can arrange both local and stand for coffee, it goes perfectly well. I'll see that my colleagues are in contact with the minister's employees, and I promise we will be very, very good at trying to find a day that fits. I know that the Minister's days in office last at least until the beginning of September. Then there may be someone else to receive the invitation if the minister has not made it there before then. But I hope that the Minister will take the time to get there and listen to how to practically solve snow clearance. It is the same people who should have the state road network snowed that also need to be able to get out on the state road network. It's a long distance, and this makes it very complicated.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-777	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, for the offer of coffee! The honourable Member knows how to warm the heart of the Government. Once that is said, I think we should remember what we are talking about here. First of all, and I know that Edward Riedl has no different opinion on this, there must be no provision for ambulances or home help to arrive just because the operators responsible for snow clearance are unable to cooperate. That is not acceptable. I have ensured in dialogue that the discussion between Trafikverket and the entrepreneurs and the Swedish Association of Individual Roads, which I have met on several occasions, has continued. I disagree with the image, which Edward Riedl still gives a little on the side, that the GPS label would be a concern. I imagine what the reaction would have been if the Swedish Transport Administration had procured snow clearance services and had not carefully checked if the service was actually procured. The reason why the Swedish Transport Administration chooses to put GPS in the vehicles is that you want to know that you actually get it done that you pay for. That is reasonable, for it has turned out that this has not always been the case. On the contrary, double invoices have sometimes been made for the same service performed, and that is not acceptable. That is why I am in favour of state authorities ensuring that they actually know that what they are paying for is being carried out. The Finnish Transport Agency does not carry out its own snow clearance. It is not the Swedish Transport Administration's own vehicles that drive, but private entrepreneurs and some state-owned company that performs the task. I also imagine that Edward Riedl does not think that this is a responsibility that the state should take over as we will do with parts of the maintenance side. I think it is good to use the commitment and flexibility of entrepreneurs. But then they will also do what they are paid for. Therefore, I think it is good that the Swedish Transport Administration with GPS now ensures that you get what you pay for and that you then in dialogue with the National Association of Individual Roads and the various road communities for a dialogue on how to find smooth solutions. Of course, a particular responsibility rests with large players in this context who have the resources to find smooth solutions. I was deeply concerned when I heard at some point that there might not be anyone willing to tender. That is also why I am clear in my reply here both to Edward Riedl and, above all, to those who follow the debate, that there is no penalty payment for delays of ten minutes. That, to the extent that it has been in the media, is a news anchor. On the other hand, if someone systematically violates the commission given by the Finnish Transport Administration and does not perform the services for which they are paid, but does other things, there is an opportunity to impose a penalty payment on an overall assessment. I think that's reasonable. Of course, one has a responsibility, and that responsibility rests both with the industry and with the entrepreneurs, to ensure that one has the resources for the tasks that one needs to carry out. The same applies, of course, to the Finnish Transport Agency and to those responsible for the road maintenance of the individual roads, which is in fact the individual road communities themselves. That is not the responsibility of the state. But to the extent that the Finnish Transport Administration can help, you should also do so. In cases where efforts can also be coordinated, it is good to do so. Therefore, it is good with the action plan that the Swedish Transport Administration has developed with the National Association of Individual Roads. It is therefore a good thing that we now feel the pressure of both the government and the opposition to find solutions, because it is not acceptable if this risks resulting in home care and ambulances not arriving.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-790	Madam President, I would like I will not repeat why this is important. Instead, let us come to the heart of the matter: How do we solve this? I think one thing needs to be said. Solutions need to look different in Stockholm and in the interior of Norrland. There is a difference between extreme sparsely populated areas and urban environments. There is also a difference in how things can be solved in practical terms. I was clear, Madam President, and I hope the Minister understood it, in that I am not against the state following up on what you pay for. On the contrary, I think it is a good thing. Having said that, I would like to stress that it must not be a matter of minuteness, hunting, increased bureaucracy, a problem with this and that anyone who has been snowing for 30 years should take a new driving licence and have new Scandinavian skills in order to be able to snow out. All of this disturbs, complicates and makes it fewer that it is actually possible to conclude agreements with both the state and individuals. With the long distances that it sometimes is, it becomes a little strange if you are to sit and drive these heavy vehicles across wasteland when you just as well, with some delay, can snow-roll the other pieces also that are not part of the state road network. Of course this should be done in dialogue with the Swedish Transport Administration. But they are the same people – and that is it, Madam President, that is all about – who live inside the individual road network that is then going out on the state road network. That is why it is good to coordinate this while we are at it. Everyone agrees that it would be good if you could solve it that way. That is what I want us to achieve: make sure that we use the resources we have in society wisely. It is impossible if you have a far too rigid attitude. This is where the problem arises, Madam President. It will be a bit deceptive when the Minister says that ten minutes of delay will not be fined if there is no systematic approach. But the problem is that when it snows on the state road network, it snows on the individual road network next door, and if you are to manage to snow out both the individual road network and the state road network, you are delayed every time you do it because you have to snow out every time it has snowed. This is where I think we need to have greater flexibility in rural areas. There should be clear demands on the part of the state to get it done, but perhaps in dialogue with those who are snowing and with the people who live there, one must be a little more flexible in order for the people who are ultimately concerned, our citizens, to have the best service and quality in this that we can achieve. My invitation to the minister stands firm. I take it that the Minister is very pleased to come up to Åsele and meet the people involved. So the invitation will be sent.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-799	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the commitment to rural areas. I myself come from Kosta, which has 800 inhabitants, and have lived in Växjö, in the middle of Småland, for quite a long time now. I know well all the challenges that exist in rural areas. I stay, just about Edward Riedl, in Stockholm because the Riksdag and the Government Office are here. Here we also follow the big city's challenges with snow clearance. They are not quite simple either; the gods should know that. First of all, let me clarify what the responsibility is – it is important for those who follow the debate. Individual road keepers are responsible for their own road maintenance. It is important to make it clear that they are responsible for snow clearance and receive resources to complete it. Then the Finnish Transport Agency, as they are responsible for national roads, can procure their services together with the individual road keepers. That is why the action plan is important, so that good synergies can be found. I am not prepared to change the division of responsibilities and to take responsibility for snow clearance from the individual road keepers, nor to change the allocation of resources. I think it is excellent that Trafikverket follows up the responsibility. We cannot have a system where services are procured and those who are going to carry out the assignments are not fulfilling them. That's remarkable. As I said, I have called on operators and informed them of this. I have been clear about the same information that Edward Riedl is giving, that is, that we cannot have a development that means that home help or ambulances are at risk of not arriving. I have also noted, from the reports I have received, that cooperation has worked well now. Several of the concerns have not been addressed, but stakeholders have overcome their challenges. However, constant monitoring of this is important and it is important to consider whether changes to the regulatory framework will or will not be required. It is also important that we are truthful in the debate. I'm not saying Edward Riedl isn't. However, there has sometimes been information in the media that penalty payments would result in persons or road haulage companies not taking the assignments. The Finnish Transport Administration has not submitted to anyone who has had a delay of ten minutes of penalty payments. If you want to find reasons for not submitting a tender, you can find other reasons. The actors involved – the individual road associations, the Finnish Transport Agency and, of course, the companies and companies involved – have a strong responsibility. It is important that you feel that pressure and that you act. If rules need to be changed, I'm willing to make changes. And if supervision needs to be tightened up, I'm willing to do it. This is an important issue, not least in a winter period like this. Otherwise we have been endowed, at least in southern Sweden, with relatively snow-free winters for a long time. I can tell. When the snow comes then there is not quite the same preparedness, the same equipment or the same capacity as there might have been before when southern Sweden had winter climate more regularly. Once again, it is something for us elected representatives to watch and to ensure. The competence needs to be maintained, so that those who are going to do this mission can do it. It remains to be seen if I have the opportunity to come to Åsele. I thank you for the offer, not least the coffee offer. But Edward Riedl can be absolutely sure that the government is watching this closely, that I have an initiated dialogue, that I have met the actors and that we are now putting quite a lot of pressure on the actors to deal with any problems that may arise. But the companies are supposed to do the right thing. This applies to private and, in this case, also to state hauliers who take the task of carrying out road maintenance.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-809	Madam President, I would like As the Minister has mentioned it a few times, I would like to make it clear that I am not in favour of changing the division of responsibilities or of not having any follow-up. I've been trying to be decently clear about those parts. Madam President, I would like I have said, however, that it is wise to think that the solutions may look slightly different depending on whether you are in Stockholm or in sparsely populated areas. That should be taken very seriously. The regulations are often set based on the conditions and perspectives of the big city, and then it will in some way be handled by people who are in a different environment. It's not always fortunate. Instead, I think we should use the resources we have wisely. In other words, there is no intrinsic value in not finding wise and smart solutions that benefit everyone when it comes to snowing the state road network for people who are supposed to use it but who are in the individual road network. It is ultimately about the little man, who is in that environment and who should also be able to get to and from it. I strongly believe that companies should do the right thing. I and the Government are in complete agreement on this too. But it cannot, once again, go beyond the wise solutions that have worked in the past. You should be able to keep them in the future. That's my point. In the case of periodic penalty payments, this applies in the case of individual infringements. But the problem is that when it snows it snows every time in the same way. The snow will land regardless of whether the road is state or private, and both parts must be snowed every time. That is the challenge. I think we should try to resolve it by consensus, and where it happens. I don't think you need to be rigid in interpretations or anything else. Come and listen to the people! I'll take it upon myself to try and fix it. I'm going to try to be so up-to-date I can with dates so that the minister gets many dates to choose from. Come and listen! I believe that many of the solutions are there.
i-7ba069eea9ff78d6-816	Madam President, I would like I can see that Edward Riedl and I share a similar view as regards the conditions for resolving this. It is a question of cooperation, but it is not a question of changing the division of responsibilities. It is good that the government, using GPS and other methods, ensures that you get the services you order. If we had had concerns that road haulage operators had systematically suffered large fines or that they had been in great trouble during a season due to new application, I would have understood the criticism. But it's not like that. No one has been charged with a penalty payment for a delay of ten minutes. And we don't have that as a starting point. The starting point, on the other hand, is that you do not want to carry out the assignment when it is now measured which service you perform. The question should nevertheless be asked why some operators choose not to bid or carry out the assignment when it is measured, so that what we have ordered is actually carried out. I assume that the actors know their joint responsibility. In the vast majority of cases, people know each other. The person responsible at Trafikverket, in the individual road association or for that matter the road user knows about each other's starting points and that it wants to find a joint agreement. The most important thing is that we have to ensure that we have sustainable solutions, so that there are conditions for the haulage companies to manage and for the Swedish Transport Administration that there are actors who can manage snow clearance. There, the individual road association and the Finnish Transport Administration, which both pay for the service, have a great responsibility to ensure that reasonable financial conditions are found. Let us hope, once again, that we will not have any problems during this winter! So far, I have not noted any serious problems. But it is important that the actors solve the problems they are facing right now.
