i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-2	Mr President, I would like to After many ifs and buts, we are now at the forefront of a debate and decision on one of the major issues of the parliamentary term in the Committee on Culture: the re-regulation of the Swedish gambling market. Generally speaking, we Swedish democrats are in favour of the re-regulation of the gambling market, of the issue being dealt with and of a proposal being made on how those parts of the gambling market which are currently in practice unregulated, despite the fact that we have a monopoly, can be better regulated. We think it is good that large parts of the current system will remain in place through Svenska Spel, while the government is trying to regulate the online gambling market. On the other hand, we would have liked the government and the parliamentary inquiry to have taken a more pragmatic approach and not only evaluated a licensing model as a solution to the problems currently encountered in the Swedish gambling market. We would also have preferred to have examined the possibilities of strengthening the gambling monopoly. However, unlike the Left Party, which has locked itself in to the monopoly idea, we have had a result-oriented view in the investigation and made proposals to make reregulation through licensing systems as good as possible. The important thing is to build on the public health aspect and to have a safe and secure system in place. It should be a matter of re-regulation and not liberalisation. Let us be clear about this. The current situation, in which an increasing share of the gambling market falls to unregulated operators, is not sustainable in the long term, and we look with great concern at the unregulated players. Mr President, I would like to It is urgent to find a solution that is in place. We therefore support the Government's proposal to introduce a licensing system for this type of gambling in order to channel these players into a regulated gambling business. However, we want to make it clear that a follow-up to the licensing system is to be planned now and that this evaluation should start five years after the new legislation comes into force. We think that the evaluations that Statskontoret will carry out until 2022 are very good. However, we would like to see a larger and broader evaluation planned after a little longer time has elapsed. The public health aspect is the starting point of Swedish democratic gaming policy. That is why we would have liked to compare the licensing model with a strengthened monopoly and then assess which of the ways forward could best minimise the backsides of gambling and the risks to the consumer. On the other hand, unlike the government, we propose that, for whatever reason, it should not be possible with the exception of the prohibition of gambling and lottery activities on credit. Both theory and practice point to problems with credit granting for an industry as well as the gaming market. Mr President, I would like to I can take a clear example. In the past, it has been discovered that Kombispel, a gaming company owned by the Social Democrats and their youth federations, has used its exemption from the Lottery Act to conduct gambling activities on credit. It is a business that, according to Dagens Nyheter, between 2014 and 2017 must have driven 8,000 people to the enforcement officer because they have not been able to pay their tickets to the company. This is, therefore, a party which is now in a position of government. Most often, the reason for buying credit is insufficient funds to buy what you want or need at the moment. The chance of winning large amounts of money in a lottery, as we all know, is very small. A person who chooses to borrow for such a purchase is either desperate, gambling addiction or a combination of these. We Swedish democrats believe that it should not be allowed to try to profit from individuals' addiction problems or their hope of a simple way out of economic problems. Therefore, it should not be allowed for anyone, whether it is the state, an association or a company, to conduct lottery activities on credit in Sweden. This means that exemptions from the prohibition to conduct gambling or lottery activities on credit, for whatever reason, should not be allowed. In addition, we want clear measures against aggressive marketing of gambling and lotteries in order to limit harmful influences and prevent people, and particularly people at risk of gambling addiction problems, from being drawn to ruin. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we would like to see an action plan on how to secure funds for Swedish civil society and the so basic society, such as sport, if their part of the gaming market is competed out by licence market participants. We as Swedish politicians have a task here. Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 4 and 5.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-19	Mr President, I would like to I believe that concerns about the development of the Swedish gambling market are widespread among the population and are also present in many of the parties here in Parliament. This question has been investigated several times in the last 18 years, but without any sharp proposals having landed on Parliament's table. From the Left, we are aware of the difficulties and difficulties surrounding EU legislation and the licences issued in another EU country. But we would have liked to see a little more action on the issue over the years. In fact, we have a margin of freedom in relation to gaming issues, and we have the right to try to maintain the Swedish gambling monopoly. Yet none of the investigations that I have taken seriously have pointed out what tools we have. It has been difficult to see how government agencies and governments over the years have seriously tried to counteract the plethora of online casinos surrounding us through billboards in the city and through advertising in newspapers, in our mobile phones, on television and on computer screens. Mr President, I would like to Last year, Swedes' gambling increased by 3 per cent. For the vast majority this is a fun activity that gives a little extra excitement in everyday life. But for others it becomes more problematic. That is why this gambling is seen as a public health problem and has also been treated like it over the years. Fewer players play today, but they play for more money than before. It has also been made possible by SMS loans or other quick indebtedness, which reduces many players, who quickly incur large debts in a different way today than before. The consequences can be disastrous for the individual, and the research shows that many of those who have major problems with gambling debts already have other concerns such as mental illness or other socio-economic vulnerability. Close with gambling addiction there are often alcohol problems and ruined relationships. Knowledge of the backside of gambling has long been high and is a powerful reason why gambling about money is a highly regulated area in Sweden and also that the EU allows Member States to have this freedom. Today, many of us – I am sure – see that it is a major problem that foreign registered gaming companies can circumvent the rules that exist when they conduct online gambling activities aimed at Swedish players. The Left Party agrees with the government's assessment that the current situation is not sustainable. Today, illegal operators do not need to take social protection into account, and they can invest in maximising profits by means of very strong marketing. However, we believe that these companies also pose major risks within a licensing system. As we know, a private limited liability company has objectives other than those of public utility associations and state companies which currently exist in our system. The Left Party therefore wants to see an investigation that looks at what methods and what legislation need to be put in place in order for us to take control of the Swedish gambling market again seriously. By having a public responsibility with a strong state gaming company, there is an opportunity to counteract the negative consequences of gambling for money. We know that gambling addiction affects not only the gambling addict himself but also many in the environment, as family and friends. When we know that gambling abuse is already a major problem, we are now a little worried that it will grow in scale with the new licensing market being proposed. Private gaming companies' drive is to maximize their own profit by selling their product to as many as possible. It is not a good mechanism for promoting responsible gaming, a high level of consumer protection and a high level of security. We agree that the gambling market needs to be regulated in such a way that all players on it are covered, but we do not want the gambling monopoly to be abolished as proposed today. Unfortunately, there are no concrete proposals for alternative regulation, which we would have liked to have seen in the investigation that forms the basis for today's proposal so that we could have compared different variants. It was already in the directives for the investigation that this broke. It makes it difficult for us in the Left Party to support this licensing system at present because we do not have the other roads clear for us. That is why today I must call for the proposal to be rejected in the proposal and for our Amendment No 1 to be approved.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-27	Mr President, I would like to So we finally stand here – Sweden will get a new gaming legislation. When I was newly appointed chairman of the Culture Committee in autumn 2015, this was one of the first questions I was thrown into. As early as November 2014, the Minister of Civil Affairs and my predecessor as Chairman, Per Bill, had presented a cross-block agreement on a new gaming policy with the aim, as it was then called, to open up to a licensing system that at the same time takes into account the protection aspect. Since then, it has been a diligent job to get this gaming policy in place. Let me begin by addressing a few words of appreciation to all those involved. This applies to all parties in Parliament who, although we are not entirely united in the end, have nevertheless contributed constructive discussions and input. This applies to the special investigator Håkan Hallstedt, who, together with his employees, has presented a well-prepared proposal based among the parties in the Riksdag. In this case, the government and the Minister for Civil Affairs, Ardalan Shekarabi, with whom we have had a good and good dialogue throughout the trip. This good tone has laid the foundations for the agreement that the whole Alliance and the government parties today are behind. There have sometimes been tedious discussions, but since we have all been aiming for the goal, it has also gone the way. I would really like to express my appreciation for this. I think it is particularly important to emphasise today, when we are in the middle of an election year in which conflict lines and politics should be set against politics, that such a year of conflict can also be agreed on one issue while at the same time there can be deep disagreement in another. You have to be able to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. Not least the government and the Minister of Civil Affairs will be aware of this afternoon when we hope to vote for a new gaming policy and at the same time vote down proposals on profit limitation and aggravating for stand-alone options in welfare. Mr President, I would like to I usually say that on this issue we may come from different ideological points of view, but reality has forced us to take a pragmatic step forward. Swedish gaming policy is no longer sustainable. An increasing share of the market is controlled by unregulated online and cross-border gambling companies. When the gaming investigation was presented, they controlled 23% of the market, but it is an ever-growing share, and it is growing at the expense of the regulated companies. Let me be very clear that this is not illegal activity or rogue actors. On the contrary, it is good Swedish entrepreneurs who have built successful Swedish companies with Swedish employees and who are targeting Swedish consumers. They have not only been allowed to operate in Sweden but have been allowed to operate from other countries. Which other growth sectors are we dealing with in this way? As a consequence, they have not been able to contribute to the common by paying taxes in Sweden, nor have they been able to be part of the regulations and systems we have to protect those at risk of harmful gambling. We have lacked control and transparency on the part of the state. The Swedish gaming legislation has thus been a chimare that has only served its purpose if one takes on the strongest political blinders. Mr President, I would like to For the Moderates and the Alliance, three perspectives, or three parts, have always been guiding. The first part is to achieve as high a channeling as possible in the Swedish gaming market, i.e. that as many players as possible should be inside the system and not outside. The investigation set a target of 90%, but we have said that this must be a minimum level. I have sometimes been criticised for talking about channeling, channeling and channeling. It is a criticism that I am happy to take, because if we do not get all serious players into the market, the new gaming policy will also fall. Then we will not have effective protection against gambling at risk, our regulations will not work, nor will we have reasonable competitive conditions in the Swedish gaming market. The second part on which we have worked intensively is the preconditions for the non-profit and utility sector, which receives a not insignificant share of its funding through gambling and lotteries. About SEK 2 billion a year goes back to charity and non-commercial purposes. To safeguard the continued independent funding of the non-profit sector has therefore been A and O. The new gaming legislation does this by excluding the market for lotteries and bingo from licensing and competition. By separating this sector from the competitive sector, we will also be able to safeguard and maintain the tax exemption for the non-profit sector. As far as lotteries are concerned, this has gone rather painlessly, but a discussion has arisen with regard to bingo. The assessment of the investigation was that only land-based bingo would be subject to tax exemption while online bingo would be considered a commercial product which would thus be covered by the new licensing scheme. Since the presentation of the bill, however, we have held intense talks between the parliament, government and stakeholders, including the commercial sector, and come to the interpretation that there are also online products. The committee therefore takes the view that bingo-like online lotteries carried out within the framework of the lottery law should continue to be exempt from tax. Such games have been carried out for public benefit purposes and have been carried out below regulated refund rates and should therefore not be considered as online bingo in the Gaming Act. Mr President, I would like to The third part that has been crucial is how we protect players at risk. Here it is important to emphasise what the investigation also states. It cannot be guaranteed that a new licensing system does not lead to an increase in gambling, but neither can it be established that a licensing system would lead to an increase in problem gambling. Having said that, a number of proposals are now being made to strengthen the protection of the gambling market. Finally, we will have a common self-exclusion system in which one can easily turn off from all players in the gaming market, either for a limited period of time or permanently. All players must set their own limits for gambling, and the companies have an obligation to act when the limit is reached. There should be panic buttons in the games where you can quickly break, and in the same way there should be clear links to support and advice. Marketing is regulated in such a way as not to promise things that cannot be kept or portrayed as a solution to economic problems. One thing that has been specifically asked is that it is now also forbidden to market games directly to the person who has suspended from gambling. It is particularly important to note that this part in particular also depends on high channeling. It is only when we get all the players into the system that we can also build effective protection against harmful gambling. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention a few other issues briefly. One issue raised in the course of the work is that of a ban on credit. In Sweden there is currently a ban on gambling on credit or invoice. However, derogations are possible, which is primarily intended for small operators such as the Swedish Cancer Society. Today, barely ten operators have such an exception, and these are mainly very small amounts in subscription lottery tickets. However, we see that an actor has repeatedly over-exploited this exception, namely the Social Democrats through its gaming company Kombispel. With offensive marketing they have sold lottery tickets on credit to already indebted and also driven people to the bailiff. Nor has it become apparent to customers that they are sponsoring Social Democratic party work by buying Kombispel's products. Putting an end to this kind of degeneracy has been important to the Alliance. It is particularly serious when a political party is misbehaving. Today's decision sets a clear ceiling for the size of the credit, and the ceiling is set on the basis of the very smaller operators to whom the exemption applies. It is aimed directly at the operator who overexploited the system, and we welcome that. It is just as reasonable that marketing should make it clear that it is party political work that you are involved in funding. If this is the case, there is a previous announcement, an announcement that the government is now given the task of working on. The last question I would like to draw the attention of the House is that of the role of the state in the future gambling market. According to the decision we take today, the gambling market is divided into a competitive market and a market in which the state continues to play an exclusive role. Svenska Spel will operate in both of these segments. The bill states that Svenska Spel needs to be restructured, as gaming on both markets under the new law may not be carried out by the same legal entity. This, as the investigation describes, requires a strict division of Svenska Spel into two separate legal entities. For us, this is extremely important based on how the state should and should act in a competitive market. The future ownership of Svenska Spel is beyond today's decision, but the Government is clear in its proposal that a divestment of the part of the company that will act in the licensing market should not be carried out. Let me be equally clear in the opposite direction: when the State becomes an actor among others in a competitive market, there is no reason for the State to continue operating there. At a change of government this autumn, I therefore hope that a new government will take steps to divest ownership in a responsible manner in the part of Svenska Spel that operates in the competitive market. Similarly, the State should liquidate its commitments in ATG. Having said that, today's decision is a big and important step for the Swedish gaming market. This means that today's outdated gaming monopoly is replaced by modern legislation that is characterised by high consumer protection and high safety in the games and that includes the entire growing gaming market – a market that opens up to serious players who want to take responsibility and at the same time shuts out those who have a different purpose in their business. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I note that this is the last parliamentary debate of the Committee on Culture. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my sincere and sincere thanks to my colleagues in the Committee on Hard debates and good cooperation, as well as to our committee secretariat, which has guided and supported us in an exemplary manner in the committee in our work. It has been a real pleasure to lead the Committee on Culture these years. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for everyone, including the Presidium for President, to wish a happy summer.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-48	Mr President, I would like to I made a little break here in the beginning, because this is a special day for me. I have been a Member of Parliament for 16 years, and the issue we are now debating has followed me ever since I became a member of the Culture Committee and responsible for issues relating to the gambling market, sport, associations and outdoor life. Before that, I spent eight years on the defense committee. It is many years and many times I have stood in this pulpit, but now it is the last time. It feels great that this particular question will be the last one. I remember the fall of 2010. I was sitting in my office. A member of the Finance Committee, Hans Hoff, came in and put a document in my lap and said: Peter! This question has been too far away for a long time. We have to solve it. This is about a change in the gaming market. I looked at the question as such in the document. I even got a number of previous investigations. I started thinking and came to think about when TV3 came into the Swedish television market and there was advertising on Swedish television. We were rather annoyed that the advertising was transmitted to television in that way. It was tried in various ways to slow down this development, but it was not possible because it was sent from abroad. Similarly, operators other than those in the monopoly were found to be on the market on the basis that they were located in different parts of Europe, particularly in Malta. At that stage, I thought this: we need to get this through properly. A small group of three persons was appointed. One of those who was in that group was named Lennart Gustavsson. He was a bit of a guru in the game area. Unfortunately, he has left us, but I am sure he is sitting up there now listening to the debate and thinking: finally there will be a change! I will be perfectly honest: the proposal that then became a motion in this House is what the investigation ultimately came up with, namely the construction of a licensing system – Olof described it quite well earlier – and a strong authority that can both grant licences and take them away from the various companies, that the association life still has a special position in the field and that it works to reduce abuse. A proposal has already been made for this term of office to amend Section 6 of the Social Services Act so as to equate gambling abuse with other abuses. Great! That is exactly in line with our proposal. The party executive committee and the party board supported the proposal. Now the ball was rolling. We tabled a motion in committee and obtained a majority on the matter, which landed with the Minister of Finance of the then bourgeois government Anders Borg. In this train of change, it can be said that there were two train drivers. It was the Social Democrats, and it was Gustaf Hoffstedt from the Moderates. He was a little lonely about that perspective and got a little barking from his party colleagues for pursuing a compromise line on the issue. This meant that he did not suffer spit and spe but at least criticism, especially from Anders Borg. The other bourgeois parties of that time basically made the thumb up. They thought it was okay. They had no major objections, but one might say that they sat in the middle car and went with them. The Green Party was reluctantly positive. There was a glimmer of possibility that they could see the effects if we did nothing on the market. At the back of the train was V and SD and pulled the emergency brake. Now the Swedish Democrats have released a little on the emergency brake, but they are still pulling it. Left on the platform stood Anders Borg. He didn't know what was going on. Of course, it is a wonderful awakening now, when we see that a change has taken place and can stand here today with a bill on a change in the gaming market. I remember in particular Almedalen 2013. Svenska Spel held a seminar where we discussed the change in the licensing system or the creation of a licensing system. At the time, Svenska Spel's management assumed that it did not want that change, because they compared the gaming monopoly with the alcohol monopoly. And certainly there are similarities in terms of risk factors, consumption and the like. However, if the development of the gambling market had taken place with regard to the alcohol monopoly, a whisky could in principle be refuelled directly from the computer, thus getting it directly home via the computer. I do not believe that this will happen in the future. I do not think that is technically possible, Mr President. But if it could have happened, yes, then the liquor monopoly would have had a problem – and that is the problem the gambling monopoly has now. Forward to 2014. We had a Social Democratic Government and a Minister, Ardalan Shekarabi, who was responsible for gaming policy. He immediately realized that this was a problem. There must be a change here. You have to work with a new bill in a fast and broad way and with anchoring. I shall not go in and take over the debate and speaking time of the Council of State, but I think it is well-deserved that later in the debate he will be able to tell us what that proposal looks like. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. As this is my last debate, I also thank all the members of the committee for their good cooperation, as well as the staff of the House and the Registry. In the future, when I am not in this House, I hope to be able to monitor this so that it will become a reality and develop. I shall also be watching you as Members so that you do a good job in this House.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-61	Mr President, I would like to I, too, am extremely happy and pleased today. Like Peter Johnsson, I have been following this issue for a long time, and I too will probably be giving my last speech in this House, at least with the Committee on Culture. I will probably be holding some together with the Constitutional Committee. It is amazing to be able to take part in the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and the Media on the proposal for a new regulation on gambling. I am very pleased and pleased with the major changes that the government has managed to make during this term of office. In fact, it is only possible to achieve such a large amount of legislation and reform in such a short period of time if there are broad majorities in Parliament. It has been on this issue for quite a long time. I would like to thank the alliance parties, which have provided good support and input in the work. But there is also a need for a government to push ahead. Ardalan Shekarabi started this work almost immediately when he took office. He also managed to appoint an investigator, the then GD of the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate, Håkan Hallstedt, who I think almost everyone has praised. He has succeeded in presenting exactly what everyone can live with, no more or less. It was probably just a few years ago that many believed that it would be a far too difficult task. In those days they used to resemble the gambling market to a gigantic pickpin, where a small change somewhere in the big puzzle was at risk of affecting significantly more parts of society. When I have met the gaming industry, while the investigation was going on, after it was completed and after the legislative referral and the bill, I have met very positive notes. There are always details that can be adjusted, but on the whole most are very satisfied. So am I. Today's report basically proposes the same things that I was working on in the Green Party's gaming policy programme and in the committee movements we have put forward on this issue. The new regulation is based on a licensing system whereby everyone who acts on the Swedish gaming market should have a license, and operators without a license should be excluded. This means that gaming companies that currently offer games within the EU with a license in another country will now be able to apply for a licence and pay tax in Sweden as well. This applies especially to games offered online. In order for a gaming company to obtain a licence and maintain it, gaming activities must be conducted in a sound and safe manner and under official control. There will be demands for enhanced consumer protection and high safety. The negative consequences shall continue to be limited. The gaming market is divided into a competitive part, which mainly includes online gambling and betting, a part reserved for games of general interest and mainly includes lotteries and bingo, as well as a part reserved to the State and covering the casinos and games on vending machines. A licensee shall have an extensive obligation to protect players against excessive gambling. High standards of moderation shall apply to the marketing of games. A State Gaming Authority shall decide on licences and exercise oversight under the proposed Gaming Act. The penalty for illegal gambling is tightened and a fraud is introduced in terms of match fixing. The excise duty is proposed to be 18%. Games reserved for public benefit purposes are proposed to be exempt. This shall be implemented from 1 January 2019. Some parts relating to money laundering have been left to the Committee on Finance, which will deal with them. There will certainly remain many more tasks in the field of gambling; we know that. Not least, many in the horse industry are looking forward to the new review. But decisions have also been made in other related areas, such as gambling addiction from the turn of the year being classified as an addiction disease and that the Social Services Act now allows help from the municipality for gambling addiction. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-71	Mr President, I would like to The market for gambling is in Sweden something completely different today than when our current gaming legislation was developed. Gaming companies have emerged at a rapid pace, not least on the internet – a development that has also given access to brand new forms of gambling in an international market. New forms of both paying and receiving money online have also speeded up developments. Today, this is a basically unregulated market, which also presents problems in different ways. As we have heard before, the issue has also been investigated on several occasions. It is therefore important that today we have come up with a proposal for regulating the gambling market, which is now on the table of the Parliament. The Left Party chooses to stand outside of this. To believe, as the Left Party, in a continued state gaming monopoly is not reasonable. I'm afraid it's completely out of date. A Swedish gaming monopoly, as proposed by the Left Party, is in accordance with the legislation today, but technology and the market have long since run away from it. The re-regulation we are debating today is therefore absolutely necessary. We are replacing today's non-functioning, outdated monopoly legislation with modern legislation that includes the whole growing gambling market. On the part of the Center Party, we have been monitoring some very important elements of the draft regulation. Income from, for example, lotteries and bingo games is today a very important, indeed essential, part of the income of large parts of our civil society. This has been possible, among other things, because civil society organisations had a tax exemption for income from these games. A continued tax exemption for civil society lotteries and bingo games has therefore been a very important issue for us to monitor, so that civil society can continue with the priceless efforts it makes for society at large. It's about the lottery ticket you buy from the Tombolan at the association arrangement, but also about the possibilities for organizations to continue selling their lottery tickets and organize bingo games also on a national level, whether it's land-based or online. It is therefore also important for the civil sector that the Committee on Culture now clarifies that the interpretation of the tax exemption should also cover bingo online. Mr President, I would like to It must be a priority for as many companies as possible to obtain a licence for the Swedish gambling market – what is currently called channeling – in order to operate in competitive but reasonable forms. Not least is it important for us to get the companies to estimate for the games that take place in Sweden, but also to strengthen the protection of the players and not least to protect the people who are at risk of gambling problems. In a regulated gaming market we can make demands on the marketing of the games but also create opportunities for self-exclusion, which then applies to all licensed companies. It is therefore important that the reregulation is about the entire growing gaming market and that it becomes clear to gaming companies that a license to act on the Swedish market is both necessary and an advantage for the company. In the same way, it should be an advantage for those who want to play to choose a company that has a license for the Swedish gaming market. It is an extensive and difficult task to regulate the Swedish gaming market. This can be seen not least by the fact that it is an issue that has both been discussed for a long time, just as Peter Johnsson said here before, and has been the subject of several investigations for many years. During these years, the gambling market, mainly online, has continued to develop at a rapid pace. That is precisely why it is also necessary to re-organise the gambling market. That it is necessary, we can look at the unregulated game online and at expansionary companies that started in Sweden but have been forced to put their business and development in other countries. It is also necessary to help and support people who are caught up in gambling and gambling addiction. It is necessary because the technology has rushed away from the current Swedish gaming legislation. But, as I said, it is a difficult and comprehensive task to regulate the Swedish gaming market. It will therefore also be important to follow up and evaluate the re-regulation and that this happens continuously so that we can adjust as quickly as possible if necessary. There are, of course, questions and concerns about parts of the proposal for reregulation. Among other things, civil society concerns about online bingo have been expressed, but I hope that this concern is now allayed by the clarification we are making from the Culture Committee in that particular part. Then there has also been, not least in the horse industry that is so important for rural areas, concern about what is happening to the future of horse sport and the long-term financing that ATG creates for the horse industry. ATG will have a new role in a reregulated gaming market. It is therefore important that the government now quickly investigate the consequences of the reregulation and how the funding that currently benefits the horse industry through the games that take place at ATG can be guaranteed in a re-regulated gaming market. Mr President, I would like to In the final stage of the Committee on Culture's consideration of this matter, a letter has also been sent to the Committee by the Government of the Åland Islands. It is a letter expressing concern about how the re-regulation of the Swedish gaming market may affect the taxation and regulation of, among other things, games that take place on ships operating between Sweden and Åland. In fact, it is important that we take this concern seriously, as we in Sweden have a special commitment to Åland through the so-called Åland Agreement. The Åland Agreement, which was adopted by the Council of the League of Nations in 1921, is still in force. This was confirmed by Foreign Minister Wallström as late as October 2015 in response to a question from the undersigned. Through the Åland Agreement, Sweden and Finland have agreed to preserve Åland's culture, language and local Swedish traditions. Within the framework of Åland's autonomy, gambling is carried out through the company Paf, where the return goes to Åland's cultural and association life, which we from the Swedish side have also committed ourselves to support. One of Paf's core activities is the ship-based gaming business, where it is now seen from the Åland Islands that revenue may be greatly reduced when the tax rules on the reregulated Swedish market are also changed as regards gambling on ships in Swedish territorial waters. Here, as far as I can see, the continuous follow-up of the reregulation early also needs to follow up on how it affects Åland's possibilities for a vibrant and developing cultural and association life if Paf's income is affected by Swedish legislation. It is also necessary to follow up if this is consistent with Sweden's commitments under the Åland Agreement. I hope the government takes this seriously. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and, at the same time, to refer to the Alliance's joint special opinion.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-85	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with most of the previous speakers and say: Finally! Finally, we will have to debate and vote on a new gaming policy and a new regulated gaming market. The debate is perhaps to be taken on this issue, because it is probably more about talking about it and paying tribute to all the steps in the work that has led to it – from the first meeting of the Minister over a cup of coffee, where we discussed possible input to the investigator, until implementation and decisions today. Many thanks to everyone involved for their great constructiveness and sensitivity to the matter! We Liberals have been involved in the work of life and desire and have tried to be a driving force in order and order, as we all call for. Anyone who in recent years has opened an evening newspaper, watched advertising-funded TV or listened to a private radio channel understands the necessity of the new, reregulated gaming market. A series of legitimate gaming companies are now mixed with a series of less accurate ones, which completely flood our daily lives with various more or less serious calls. It is easy to be led to believe that it is only foreign, a little dark and shady companies that are misbehaving, but unfortunately that is not the case. As mentioned earlier, the Social Democratic A-lotteries, for example, stand out when it comes to the fact that some of the activities have been carried out in a highly questionable manner. Mr President, I would like to We are a gambling people and have been for many years. From having played on trotting, lotteries and other traditional games, today we do much of our gambling online, for good and bad. We can read in the newspapers about Swedes who have been fooled by companies based in countries far away and by lotteries that have their starting point in the midst of democracy's stronghold. We read about many who have fallen into gambling abuse and been left to their fate by rogue players. They have been left there quite alone, assisted only by civil society actors. But now, Mr President, this is changing. Now we let in the players who have worked among Swedish players from abroad. They have not existed physically in Sweden, have not paid taxes in Sweden and have not lived under our laws and regulations. Now they get into the heat, or rather under a regulated umbrella, and be the entertainment and recreation they are supposed to be. This would have been done much earlier, but it is nevertheless welcome that we are finally getting this regulated gambling market, which takes greater responsibility also for its players. Mr President, I would like to It is an important liberal position that a well-functioning market is also a well-regulated market. This is what has been lacking precisely in terms of the gambling market. It is important that as many as possible, not to say all, who operate on the Swedish gambling market should have a valid permit. It is the previously debated channeling. It is of the utmost importance that as many people as possible are involved for this to have credibility and for everyone to have a sense of the system working. Those who do not have a licence shall be appropriately and effectively excluded. As has already been said, we are imposing a tax of 18% on all licensed companies. That's great. In addition, the gaming market will be divided into three distinct parts. Some are competitive. Another part is about land-based casinos and slot machines, where the state has exclusive rights. The third part concerns the non-profit sector, which is exempt from tax. We Liberals are fully behind this. Furthermore, we will continue to monitor these developments closely to see how we can ultimately reduce state ownership of the competitive parts, where the state really has no reason to be. But it is also important to point out that the market must first be allowed to sit down. Then we'll see where things go, and the credibility of the system will be detained. We will also follow, very clearly, the opportunities of the non-profit sector to operate in its field and to continue to be an engine and a source of funding. It is about securing the future part of this, that it remains. We will be following very closely the development of the incredibly important financing of horse sport and the horse industry. As I said, more parts of that investigation are needed for this to come into place. It is also important that we ensure this transitional period. Mr President, I would like to Games are entertainment. Games should be fun and spice life, but we also have to take the back sides seriously. It is very good that gambling addicts should get better care. Gambling abuse will now be equated with all other abuses, and municipalities will be given special responsibility for treating gambling abuse. That's very good. That's good. But how do we ensure that as few as possible end up in abuse? We know that gambling abuse is one of our fastest growing social problems today. More than 80 000 children today are estimated to live with an adult who has gambling problems. And we add to those who live with the consequences of past abuse the figure is growing very fast. Gambling abuse, however, does not blindly beat. Not everyone gets hit-- it's important to establish it. As with much else, the risks are greatest for those who are already vulnerable. They are the greatest for those who have other forms of addiction. The big difference compared to other social problems is that we rarely talk about it. It is largely a taboo area that it is actually very hush-hush around. We have not fully realised what it leaves behind. The gaming industry has, of course, a very large responsibility of its own, but we, too, as legislators. Today's decision takes care of a number of these problems, but not all. It's very good that you take care of some, but we need to move on. We need to monitor this area and be clear. We Liberals will make a strong move to achieve this in the future. We are pleased that we have a broad collection here in the Riksdag of a strengthened responsibility. We Liberals will follow it and come back to what more needs to be done in the area of social responsibility. We believe that it is self-evident that we must be able to distinguish between games and games. The Swedish gaming policy has long been based on the understanding that different forms of gaming have different risks. There is a difference between online casinos and bingo tickets. Today we are putting an end to the most aggressive advertising for risky games. It is very good and very important, but we need to come back with sharp instruments to further tighten the rules around the extremes and differentiate different types of games and regulations so that they are really accurate – all for the consumer's good. Finally, Mr President, it is extremely important to monitor the development of a new licensing system. A system is therefore now in place to monitor and measure gambling problems and public health effects closely and continuously after re-regulation. We are also following market effects and other elements, so that a new side of the Wild West does not arise and so that we can act in time if the system does not work. Mr President, I would like to It is with pleasure that I, on behalf of the Liberals, wish to support the whole proposal and also to refer to the special opinion of the Alliance.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-103	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to support the proposal and refer to our specific opinion. I would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues in the parliamentary group who have participated in the parliamentary reference group. I would like to thank the investigator, as many others have done in the past. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance, who has conducted a dialogue with us in the Alliance about the arrangement. Thank you, Minister in charge, Ardalan Shekarabi, for your cooperation! It is amazing that we have managed to keep the timetable, largely due to the dialogue between the government and the parliament and many players in the gaming industry. The vast majority of stakeholders have been involved. Among other things, Svenska Spel, the peoples' movement-owned companies and the Industry Association for Online Games, called Bos, have shown an interest in participating in this process. In the past, the state has not been transparent, but is now withdrawing the initiative. We give confidence to the gaming industry in connection with the re-regulation of the gaming market that they are tasked with managing. Politics has taken responsibility. Now it is important that the gaming industry takes over the baton and that it does not try to find loopholes and angles that make it a lot of appeals and other things. It is about the gaming industry going from being unregulated to being regulated. It goes from different conditions and regulations to the same for all the players involved. There's still an investigation into the horse business. Statskontoret is also given a mandate to follow up the reform for three years. The upcoming Gaming Inspectorate, previously the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate, will have an important role in terms of government control. Mr President, I would like to There have been some particularly important issues in this process that we from the Alliance have highlighted. I know that Olof Lavesson, chairman of the Committee on Culture, has raised this issue, but I would still like to remind you of them. It is about channeling, i.e. how many companies apply for a licence. There is a hope that 90% of the companies will be involved in this. It concerns the opportunities for civil society to continue to operate on the same terms as before. Gambling is of course important for the funding of civil society. It is also a question of what will happen to the state-owned company Svenska Spel, which is divided into two separate companies, a so-called monopoly company and a competitive company with different conditions. So the horse industry is outside. We'll have to get back to that. Then, of course, it is a point that we get taxes through this gaming license system, so that the state becomes enriched in that way. I really think it is time to pay taxes in Sweden as it is now being highlighted and proposed. Another question concerns match fixing. It's a matter of crime. It gets the new gaming authority tasked with fighting. These are strong counter-forces, including those from other countries. This is therefore also a very important issue in this context. Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that an important issue for us Christian Democrats has been highlighted in the proposal. It is about gambling abuse and gambling addiction. It is very gratifying that this issue has not been toneed down and that the new Gaming Authority will ensure that there is moderation in marketing. It is crucial, because today, as someone mentioned, it is a wild West when it comes to marketing and how to deal with it. I look forward to what we see on TV almost every day being toned down and becoming more moderate. But I don't think gambling addiction will go away. It is one of the most serious addiction situations you can end up in. Gambling destroys people's lives and destroys families. The Public Health Agency estimates that approximately 171 000 people, including 82 000 children, live with someone who has gambling problems. Until now, gambling companies have often picked up people's financial vulnerability. They come with lures of fast play with short time between bet and outcome. New players are tempted with free games and gifts while old players are convinced of new stakes to regain what has been lost. Celebrities do here and where– I think it's offensive – advertising for gambling, which in turn leads to shine spreading and that gambling can be seen as legitimate. About one in five persons reports that they have someone in their close environment who has gambling problems, and the unregulated market has grown while gambling addiction has increased. In order for us to understand the problem, I would like to quote from a website. The quote is about how to discover if you have gambling problems. You are constantly thinking about games (previous gaming experiences, the next game or thinking about how to get money for the next game). In order to keep the excitement, you need to play for ever larger amounts of money. You have failed several times to limit your gambling or stop playing. You get restless or irritated when you try to stop playing or play less. You play to avoid problems or to get away from anxiety or depression. You return to special games even though you have previously lost money on them. You want to take revenge for the loss. You're lying to hide how much you play. You have committed crimes to get money for gambling (e.g. theft, embezzlement or forgery). You have compromised or lost any important personal relationship, employment, education or career opportunity due to gambling. You rely on others to arrange money to solve an economic crisis that has arisen as a result of gambling. ..................................................... This can therefore be a warning sign that you are becoming addicted to gambling. It is in this context that I think the attractions we see in marketing are so offensive and harmful, in some way. I therefore look forward to more moderate marketing. Of course you should be allowed to market, but not in the way that is done today, I think. Mr President, I would like to We in the Christian Democrats are very positive about the new gaming licensing system. We will of course follow up on what is being done in the future to prevent gambling addiction. For those who have already ended up in economic tragedy because of gambling, there are organisations that support and help. The National Association for Gambling Addiction works to prevent and remedy gambling addiction. Uppsala Gaming Centre is an example where the municipality cooperates, but the fact that only a few of our 290 municipalities cooperate in such activities shows that there is much left to do. Meanwhile, people continue to be drawn into what all too often ends up in an economic and social tragedy. Really positive is that, from 1 January this year, we have given the social welfare committees responsibility for preventing and counteracting gambling abuse. It is an extension of the current responsibilities of the RACs in preventing and combating the abuse of alcohol and other addictive substances. The Social Welfare Boards will also be given responsibility for actively working to prevent and combat gambling abuse among children and young people. Today, municipalities and county councils will cooperate on people who abuse alcohol and drugs, among other things, and this cooperation will be extended to include people who are gamblers. Mr President, I would like to A re-regulated gaming market is a major and important step in the right direction, and assuming that we manage to resolve the issue of horse sport funding and the division of Svenska Spel in the near future, this means that the bill lays a solid foundation for a modern and balanced gaming policy.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-133	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish state regains control. That is exactly what will happen at the end of the year in view of the decision that will be taken in this House. The Swedish State will fulfil one of the most fundamental obligations it has towards the Swedish citizens – to ensure that Swedish law is complied with in Sweden and that the operators who conduct business towards the Swedish market comply with the regulations and pay tax in Sweden. That will be the effect of the decision taken today. The effect of the decision is also that we ensure that we do what we can to protect Swedish consumers in one of the most risky markets available, namely the gambling market. The fact that this is happening today, after this debate, should be an impossibility. We had exactly three years at our disposal to develop the basis of the bill, to conduct all negotiations and to deal with the legal aspects of EU law. This is perhaps one of the more complex areas of law. It is a legal area and a policy area that affects the horse industry, civil society, the media industry and many other actors in our society – with quite so many and conflicting interests. Although we had only three years at our disposal and many obstacles along the way, we stand here today and will have a decision within a few hours. From the end of the year, we will have a reformed gambling market. Why is this? Well, that's because when Sweden gathers and when we live up to the myth of the country where dialogue and compromise culture dominates – then we deliver as well. Then we solve our social problems. This is the most amazing thing about our country, and I thought about it yesterday at the National Day celebrations when in my speech I would highlight it specifically Swedish. It occurred to me that what is unique with Sweden is faith in the compromises – the belief that it is good when people go into a room and come out of there just disgruntled and the belief that there is something beautiful about it, because you solve social problems. You meet in the dialogue. That is exactly what has happened during this parliamentary term and during the process of the game reform: we started a job together, and we all finished our work just finely disgruntled. As a result, we will have a regulated gaming market in which the Swedish state regains control. Mr President, I would like to I am not going to go over the details of the legislation, but I am going to thank many. I would like to thank the Committee on Culture for its excellent work, and I would like specifically to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Olof Lavesson, and former Chairman Per Bill, who has stood for a very close dialogue down the Ministry of Finance and the Government. There have been constructive discussions that have enabled the solutions that now exist in Parliament's decisions. These constructive talks have led us to find compromises that are necessary for the re-regulation of a market. I would like to thank the other Members of Parliament who do not sit on the Committee on Culture but who have been involved in various ways. This applies to Agneta Börjesson from the Constitutional Committee and several other Members of Parliament who have been involved and who have highlighted not least the issues of the horse industry. We know that in this House there are many people involved in the issues of civil society and the horse industry. It feels very good that we have been able to have such a constructive dialogue. The reform would not have been possible without Håkan Hallstedt. If we go back to the dialogue and compromise culture: This is exactly how we have chosen to solve social problems in our country – through investigations that prepare matters, find proposals for compromises and create a platform for dialogue between different actors. Håkan Hallstedt did the impossible. He himself wrote on Twitter that it was an impossible mission before he knew it was he who would handle the investigation. He was given the impossible task, and he delivered an investigation that really contained answers to all the issues relevant to this reform. The parties, the various players involved in gaming legislation, should have a great deal of thanks. Olof Lavesson mentioned another issue that will be decided in this House later today, namely the issue of profit. I have received the honor of following and being involved in these two processes in parallel. The big difference in terms of the parties and actors that are relevant in each policy area is that the players in the gaming industry actually decided to compromise and become moderately dissatisfied. They decided that it was worth making compromises that meant that they would have tougher rules and that they would pay higher taxes. It was worth it to bring about a reform that creates legitimacy and legal basis for the industry. That is why we have also been able to push through this reform. All the players active in the gaming industry – the foreign-based companies, the Swedish-based companies, the representative organisations that exist, and those who work with issues related to gambling abuse – should have a great deal of thanks for the willingness to compromise, for the commitment and for the ability to conduct constructive dialogue even on difficult issues. Finally, I would like to thank my own Secretary of State, Alejandro Firpo. Now I am the one who stands here, and this is the case in politics: it is we ministers who have to take credit for a process that is often made possible by officials in the Government Office who are working hard. In this case, a number of non-political officials at the Ministry of Finance and other departments have worked hard to make this reform possible. They have made impossible efforts possible. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to these officials and, therefore, to Secretary of State Alejandro Firpo, who has spent many hours, nights and early mornings on the process that has delivered and made this reform possible. My friends and Mr President! It feels very nice to experience this day. I remember the first time I heard about the game issue; it was at the beginning of the 00's. At the time, there was a very strong will to push through reform, but for various political reasons this was not possible. Today, however, we are here in Parliament, and soon you will be making the decision. I would like to thank you very much for all your efforts.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-146	Mr President, I would like to What is it, the Government, that makes you want to retain the exception in terms of being able to conduct gambling and lottery business on credit?
i-3NU21tdm55XQNBpt6zMY4B	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sara-Lena Bjälkö, for the question and for the opportunity to clarify this. We have taken several important steps to tighten up legislation on credit and gambling. I am very proud that both the Government and the Riksdag have been able to deal with these issues in a responsible manner, and we are now seeing that we are getting legislation in place that means greatly tightened up rules on credit. We have a number of organizations in our country that conduct lotteries where you sell lottery tickets with invoices. It is reasonable that there is an opportunity to do this, but it should then be very limited amounts and a very high level of consumer protection. This is one of the issues that must also be followed up. Of course, we should not tolerate the exploitation of people and the confusion of credit and gambling in a way that harms consumers. I am very proud that we are now introducing stricter rules, and I am grateful that Parliament has followed this issue very closely.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-151	Mr President, I would like to The Government mentions stricter legislation, but as the Government says, this particular exception to conduct gambling and lottery activities on credit is still in place. In my opinion, it should be possible to use a system that is designed so that gaming companies and other companies would not have to sell on invoices. What does the Government think of this?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-153	Mr President, I would like to The investigator, the government and the parliamentary majority have found this to be a well-balanced proposal. In fact, we have also tightened up the structure of the legislation in comparison with the investigator's proposal. It is good that we have taken these steps. We believe that this creates good conditions for a high level of consumer protection while at the same time enabling non-profit organisations to sell lottery tickets in the order that has normally applied to lottery sales in our country. The fact that we introduced a ceiling and a much stronger level of consumer protection is sufficient, in our opinion.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-156	Mr President, Members and listeners. The Left Party largely welcomes the proposal for increased liability for reactor owners but shares the criticism that has come from the Swedish environmental movement, such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Association and Greenpeace, that the levels are far too low. It is time to increase the responsibility, but the EUR 1 200 million proposed is far from sufficient. The Left Party believes that the principle must be that nuclear power should bear its compensation costs in the event of nuclear accidents. After all, the principle that those who cause an environmental impact also bear its costs is mentioned in the various documents of the European Union and the Government. Unfortunately, however, the proposal is not based on this principle, and there is a risk that the costs of possible nuclear accidents will be borne by taxpayers if liability is not significantly clarified. In Japan, we have seen the size of the costs we are talking about. The costs of clearing up after the Fukushima accident, preventing further leakage of radioactivity from the reactors and compensating those affected are already huge sums of money. Last year, the Japanese Department of Commerce estimated that the direct costs amounted to SEK 1 640 billion, i.e. about EUR 164 000 million. Most of it consists of compensation for victims and costs of clean-up. No one knows today what it will ultimately cost, but it will be considerably more expensive and risk undermining the Japanese state's finances. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is in favour of the decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power, which we argued for in the Parliamentary Movement A sustainable and long-term energy policy. But as long as we have nuclear power in Sweden, the country's inhabitants must feel secure in that the state places high demands on the reactor owners. It is important that the 2010 Law on Liability and Compensation for Radiological Accidents, with its unlimited liability, can enter into force as soon as possible. The government should therefore actively work for this to happen. Pending the entry into force of the new Act, the Government should calculate the costs of a possible accident at the respective reactor in Sweden. The government should also come back with proposals for compensation levels to cover the actual costs of a possible reactor accident. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-163	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the CU15 report on increased liability and stricter insurance requirements for reactor owners. The background to this bill is that the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats in the 2016 Energy Agreement decided that this was one of the points that would be included in the agreement. The starting point was to increase liability to 12 billion in line with the 2010 parliamentary decision. The big difference between this and previous law is that it gives real greater liability. In the past, liability was 3 billion, which was very theoretical. Many estimated that it would in no way cover the costs. The amount is now being increased to 12 billion, which means that reactor owners must assume a much greater responsibility. It can be discussed and noted that it is certainly not enough. But it is quite a substantial increase, and the Paris Convention allows this amount. What, then, is the entrance to this? The fact is that the amount of insurance that a reactor holder is required to have in the event of an atomic reactor accident is increased from 3 million so-called special drawing rights to 1 000 million special drawing rights, which is equivalent to 12 billion euros. These companies will then have to have funding, and the funding will be either through liability insurance or through some other type of financial security, which at any given time will enable them to bear the costs. The basis of the proposal is that we want nuclear power and the companies operating nuclear power to bear the costs that arise. The government sees this as a first step. In its motion, the Left Party points out that the amount is too low. I think that the increase in ambition that is now taking place from EUR 3 billion to EUR 12 billion makes it a real much greater liability for what it has been like in the past. You can always discuss whether the amount should be increased. My entry is that when or if the Paris Convention enters into force, we can have new discussions about the amount of responsibility. The second question raised by the Left Party in its motion concerns how to calculate the actual costs. I think it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to calculate the actual costs and think it is more important to make nuclear power take greater responsibility in different ways. We see this from the government side as a first step towards this.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-169	Mr President, I would like to Today, then, we are dealing with the report on Increased liability and stricter insurance requirements for reactor owners. It's about who's gonna pay if there's a nuclear accident. I find it remarkable that no one from either the Moderates, the Liberals, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats or the Swedish Democrats has signed up for this debate. The world has experienced a number of nuclear accidents. The two largest are Chernobyl in 1986 and Fukushima in 2011. In both cases, the costs have been very high, and it is the state that has had to pay for evacuation, medical costs and clean-up. The Government has now submitted a proposal to increase the insurance requirement for the owner of a nuclear power plant from SEK 3 billion to SEK 12 billion. The proposal is assumed to receive the support of Parliament in the vote this afternoon. The proposal to increase liability is part of the energy agreement concluded between five parties. The overall target is 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040. For the Green Party, it is important that nuclear power pays its socio-economic costs. The Environmental Protection Agency's report entitled Potential environmentally harmful subsidies states that the limited liability of nuclear power companies is a subsidy. And the Riksdag has decided that nuclear power should not be subsidised directly or indirectly. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency writes in the report: The limited insurance liability associated with liability for damages in the event of nuclear reactor accidents means that the costs of producing electricity in nuclear power plants are lower than they would otherwise have been. The lack of full liability thus gives nuclear companies a competitive advantage over renewable energy. There is no nuclear company in the world that has to bear the full cost of insurance for its activities, as this would mean that nuclear power would be unprofitable and impossible to build. In the world, there are two kinds of activities that no insurance company fully finances, and they are nuclear energy and space travel. It tells us clearly why no one wants to insure this activity. The increase now made from SEK 3 billion to SEK 12 billion per reactor represents a large increase in percentage, a quadrupling of the cost. The Government states in the bill that the changes mean that nuclear power owners are to a greater extent responsible for the risks of nuclear power than they are today. That is a good thing and something that the Green Party has been working for a long time. It is also important to compare with the costs of the accidents that have occurred. According to the latest official information from the Japanese government, the cost of the Fukushima nuclear accident in 2011 has been estimated at SEK 1,692 billion. That is twice as much as has been indicated in the past. Most of the cost falls to the Japanese taxpayer, and the final cost remains unclear. Each day, seven years after the meltdown, 400 tonnes of sea water are contaminated when used for cooling. Radioactivity leaks into the seawater, and fishing around the nuclear power plant is therefore prohibited. How to calculate these large costs is also unclear, but it is clear that the costs end up on society and ultimately on the citizens. If an accident similar to Fukushima were to occur in Sweden, the economic cost would be about SEK 160 000 per Swede. Without nuclear power and with a completely renewable electricity system, the Swedish people do not have to act as insurance companies for nuclear power. The Green Party welcomes the fact that nuclear power will bear more of the cost of this proposal. That is why we are calling for approval of the Government's proposal for increased liability.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-182	Mr President, I would like to The energy agreement contains a great deal, and this is part of it. I welcome the fact that today, in the Swedish Parliament, we can decide on increased liability for reactor owners. It is very important that, as we have already decided in 2010, we now show clearly that we are in favour of the Paris Convention. Unfortunately, not all countries have signed it, and we do not really know if and when it will happen. But Sweden is clear in its position. A reactor owner should have an increased and significant responsibility in case something should happen. I welcome the fact that today we also have the Green Party with us in this decision, so that we in a large majority in the Swedish Parliament are clear about where we want to go and what we think on this very important issue. On behalf of the Moderates, we are in favour of the bill.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-187	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the reduction of the fee for permission, advance notice and notification. The Government's proposal introduces a system in which the municipality is prevented from covering its building permit management costs in the event of certain deadlines being exceeded. It is an absolute law in that the delay does not need to be caused by the municipality but may be caused by the applicant himself or by outsiders. It will be prohibited to charge the building permit fee to the applicant, who may be the person who caused the delay himself. In these cases, it may in some cases be difficult to determine exactly how long it takes to deal with the matter. Cases may differ in scope and time. It follows from the Administrative Act that each case in which an individual is a party must be dealt with as easily and quickly as possible. It is the JO and JK that supervise authorities, and losses caused by delays can be compensated by damages. It is quite different from introducing a general punishment measure as the government is doing here. The Planning and Construction Act already sets deadlines for permission and advance notice. Any reorganisations and changes in processes are therefore already carried out at the plan offices on the basis of these benchmarks. However, some flexibility may be important in order to be able to make the right priorities and careful assessments. In fact, a large majority of municipalities meet the deadline in 90% of cases. It therefore seems completely unwarranted to impose such a remedy on the municipalities. This results in a loss of income which, contrary to the Government's purpose of the bill, will result in a deterioration in statistics. The Government's proposal will make municipalities that find it difficult to recruit even poorer. Although it may seem simple, it is not uncommon that in matters of permission there are misunderstandings, that details are forgotten and that documents need to be supplemented. It is not clear when the matter should be considered complete. Since the bill proposes that the timing of completion should have major economic consequences, we will see lengthy disputes about these things. There will be a complex application of law with different considerations, for example where the exemption rule will apply in the individual cases. It hardly accelerates the construction process. Because it is a matter of construction, it is also in some cases a matter of very large investments and values. Building permit fees mean great values for municipalities and are needed in the work to manage all housing production and to seriously balance the interests required so that society and settlements will be connected in our cities today and a hundred years ahead. In addition, it is the construction operator who ultimately has to take advantage of the increase in the value of the land. Financial sanctions for the handling of praises will increase the burden on municipalities as the possibility of prioritising and distributing work is limited. It will increase costs, and municipalities will remove priorities that are more important but where there is no financial sanctions. This leads to a growing bureaucracy where trained professionals do not get the opportunity to do their job but are stuck in a jungle of detailed regulations. I regret that I and the government do not agree that this kind of new public management approach only creates problems and inefficiency. The fee for permission corresponds to the average cost of the municipalities for the type of notice, procedure or decision to which the fee relates. It is paid by the applicant or the notifier. The bill thus prevents municipalities from collecting these fees in certain cases. This means that municipalities are forced to finance building permit management in other ways, which means that funds that could otherwise have been used either for building permit management or for school and care are instead allocated to individual building operators. The municipalities are then forced to make cuts in one way or another. Either they raise the building permit fees for everyone or they fire staff in school and care for the elderly. We often talk about long processes in housing construction, and that is a real problem. It is also important to understand what is taking time and what must take time. It takes longer for the developer to apply for building permits than the entire detailed planning process takes for municipalities – it takes more than a year and a half after the detailed plan has gained legal force. For the majority of municipalities, it will take less than ten weeks to process the building permit. During the growing number of building permits, municipalities have grown rapidly, and residential building has continuously developed and streamlined its processes. It would then appear to be an unusual misplacement of punishing municipalities' building permits units and poor municipalities' residents rather than increasing resources there and making more stringent demands on the construction operator to speed up the construction process. This is a very unusual feature of Swedish law. It seems very strange that this does not also apply to applicants for e.g. Försäkringskassan or Migrationsverket, but unilaterally benefits Swedish property owners. Nor has the government carried out a proportionality assessment, which is necessary when proposals restrict municipal self-government. The investigator who has looked at this is of the opinion that it is not necessary to link any sanctions to these deadlines as the overall objective of increased efficiency can be achieved through the current deadlines. I don't know why the government has made a different assessment. There's no record of it anywhere. In addition, it appears to be unusually wrong when almost 200 municipalities pass the current time limits to 90 per cent. Probably it is the poorest municipalities that still have challenges, and now the government is making these municipalities even poorer. The risk is that rural municipalities will have to cut back on school and care to pay for property owners' increases in value. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-208	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. We Social Democrats support the Government's proposal to amend the Planning and Construction Act. The amendment introduces a system of fee reduction when deadlines are exceeded for decisions in cases of authorisation, advance notice and notification. According to the Government, the overall purpose of the deadlines is to achieve an effective construction process, which is stated to be of great importance in meeting the need for new housing. I will not go into all the details of the individual deadlines, but will stick to the overall proposal and respond to some of the concerns of the proposal that have been highlighted. If a building committee charges a fee for the handling of a permit, advance notice or start-up notification case, the fee shall be reduced by one fifth per week commenced by which the Board exceeds the time limit for the notification of the decision and the notification of the case. For example, this shall take place within 10 weeks for permission or advance notice from the date on which the application was submitted to the Board or the later date on which further evidence was received by the applicant on his/her initiative. It is also proposed that the applicant be informed of, inter alia, the time limit for the decision and that a fee reduction should be applied if the time limit is exceeded. Criticism has been expressed as to whether the proposal is necessary because it has been shown that only a minority of municipalities find it difficult to meet the deadlines. This is true, but it is still one fifth and one sixth of the municipalities that are unable to meet the deadlines in the vast majority of cases. And in those municipalities where 90% of cases can do it, it's still 10% where you can't deliver. Although it is a relatively small proportion, we believe that there is a need to ensure that the individual can have his or her case settled within the time limits previously decided by the Riksdag. After all, it is we who have decided that they should be kept, and when this is not done, we must look at other measures in order for this to be delivered. There are other problems with deadlines and deadlines for building permit processes and other things that we can also discuss, but they are not related to this matter. Now we're talking about the deadlines for building permits and so on. As I mentioned earlier, the proposal made by Boverket contains that the deadlines begin to run from the date on which the applicant has submitted new documents on his own initiative, which removes the risk of the applicant trying to delay the process, which is another concern highlighted. Finally, Mr President, the government believes that the system of reduction of contributions should be evaluated after three years to see if the reform has had the intended effect. We Social Democrats share the view that this can be done. Through this bill, the announcements in the matters previously decided on by the Riksdag have been finalised. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to call for approval of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs' proposal.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-220	Mr President, I would like to Now we are supposed to debate the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the government's letter Strategic Export Control 2017 – Armaments and dual-use items. The committee's report raises one of the Left Party's motions, and I will take this opportunity to explain why we have written the motion and also ask for our reservation. On 28 February this year, a new law on reinforced export control of armaments was adopted. It does not contain an absolute stop to sales to dictatorships or countries that seriously violate human rights. It is still up to the ISP to decide which interest weighs most: more money for Swedish arms companies or no weapons for dictatorships or countries that seriously violate human rights. Therefore, the Riksdag needs to give clear information about what applies. This signal can be given, among other things, by imposing arms embargoes on countries that we believe should not be able to violate human rights or restrict democracy with the help of Swedish armaments. This applies not least to Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. Saudi Arabia is undoubtedly one of the worst dictatorships of our time. Any attempt to demand reform and greater respect for human rights has been ruthlessly suppressed. Only in recent weeks have several women's rights activists been imprisoned, including Madiha al-Jaroush, who demanded more rights for women in the country. The country's ruling royal family during the Arab Spring was one of the strongest forces against democratisation. They have carried out and participated in numerous military interventions in neighbouring countries, both to suppress protests and popular uprisings and to increase their geopolitical influence. In 2015, a coalition led by Saudi Arabia launched air strikes against Yemen in support of President Abd Rabbu Mansur Hadi. According to the UN, the war in Yemen makes it the world's largest humanitarian disaster. The Saudi-led coalition has been accused of widespread violations of international law. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government has raised the situation in Yemen above all from a humanitarian perspective. The criticism of the Saudi-led coalition, on the other hand, has been cautious. When Stefan Löfven visited Saudi Arabia in October 2016, Marcus Wallenberg, who is chairman of Saab, was on the journey. Nowhere in the Government Office's communication about the trip was Saudi Arabia's warfare in Yemen mentioned. The newspaper ETC has interviewed Waleed Alhariri, head of Sana a Center for Strategic Studies in the United States, who says: Every country that sells weapons to this conflict does so knowing that it contributes to, and profits on, these atrocities in Yemen. Selling weapons to war criminals defines a nation's morality, says Alhariri. He continues: The Swedish people, like people in other countries around the world, must ask themselves what they want their country to stand for and be remembered for. The majority of Saudi Arabia's weapons come from EU Member States. Between 2009 and 2014, 59% of the arms imported from Saudi Arabia from the EU came, according to the Peace Research Institute Sipri. Sweden is no exception. For a number of years Saudi Arabia was one of the main buyers of Swedish armaments. Between 2004 and 2014, Saudi Arabia bought war material from Sweden for over SEK 5.2 billion. On 25 February 2016, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia with explicit reference to the country's warfare in Yemen. The European Parliament believes that arms exports to Saudi Arabia are contrary to EU rules. The decision is a clear signal to Member States to stop exporting arms to Saudi Arabia. The Left Party supports the request in the resolution and believes that the government should act in accordance with the recommendations of the European Parliament. Mr President, I would like to In February 2011, popular protests broke out in Bahrain calling for greater freedom, social justice and political and constitutional reforms. The Bahraini government responded harshly and mercilessly with violence and abuse. Nevertheless, protests continued calling for a new constitution, a democratically elected government, a fairer distribution of the country's assets and the release of all political prisoners. There is much evidence that the protests and the demands raised had broad popular support from popular movements as well as trade unions, from both Sunni and Shia Muslims and from men and women in Bahrain. Bahrain's neighboring Saudi Arabia then sent in tanks, and the king of Bahrain introduced a state of emergency and allowed the armed forces to take the necessary measures to stop the uprising. As a result, many were killed and injured. The violations of human rights and the harsh repression of dissidents have continued. In recent years, the government has tightened its freedom of expression, demonstration and association further. Several human rights defenders have been arrested and prosecuted. Other oppositionists have been banned from travelling abroad. More than 80 people lost their Bahraini citizenship in 2016, four have been forced out and the main opposition group has been dissolved. Several opposition leaders are imprisoned and, according to Amnesty International, are considered prisoners of conscience. Discrimination against women is widespread, both through legislation and in society. Migrant workers and LGBTQ people also face widespread discrimination. While developments in countries such as Syria and Libya have received great attention in Sweden and the rest of the EU, the regime's gross and widespread abuse in Bahrain has met with silence. Sweden should work in the EU as well as in the UN for an arms embargo on Bahrain. In this way, Mr President, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation in the UU20 report.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-233	Mr President, I would like to This is the 34th time that Parliament is dealing with a letter from the Government setting out its policy in the field of export control. The first letter on strategic export control was sent in 1985. Sweden was then among the first in Europe to report the activities of the past year in this area. Mr President, I would like to The letter has since evolved from a brief compilation of Swedish arms exports to a comprehensive account of Swedish export control policy in its entirety. More statistical data can now be provided thanks to better information processing systems and more transparent policies. In parallel with the Swedish accounts, the EU Member States have since 2000 gradually developed a common and detailed report. The Government continuously strives for increased transparency in the area of export control. Mr President, I would like to In addition to contributing to parliamentary transparency in Sweden's export control policy, the letter aims to provide a basis for a broader discussion on issues related to export control of war material and dual-use items. It may be appropriate to mention that in October 2017, the Government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with proposals for a series of tightening-up of the export control of war material. It has been examined by the Riksdag, and we decided that the new Act would apply from 15 April 2018. In October, the Government also decided to instruct the Inspection of Strategic Products, ISP, to investigate and submit proposals for a system of post-controls abroad of war material in order to obtain additional tools to ensure that war material taken out of Sweden goes to the intended recipients and thus prevent diversion. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish permit examination of the export of war material and other international cooperation is based on a division of foreign policy barriers into unconditional barriers and conditional. An unconditional obstacle means that an exit or other overseas cooperation is excluded. A decision by the UN Security Council, the EU or the OSSE on an arms embargo are examples of such obstacles. Where this is not the case, an overall assessment should be carried out, taking into account circumstances relevant to the case. With the help of the new legislation and the mission to the ISP, which I have previously stated, we Social Democrats are convinced that the conditions for our handling of arms exports have greatly improved in the direction expressed by Parliament. It is now up to future Parliaments to follow up on this, and I would now like, Mr President, to ask for the committee's proposal and rejection of the reservation.
i-919yVDbXPP1KXbRZsYESHj	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of the Environment Karolina Skog, Minister of State Tomas Eneroth and Minister Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-240	Mr President, I would like to The government proposes to grant a whole group of people a residence permit even though they have no reason to stay in Sweden. At the same time, the government proposes that it should be more difficult for people who want to work, work, contribute and pay taxes in Sweden. In order to cope with the core tasks of welfare and to have a secure and modern society that is connected in the future, half a million new employees are required only in their welfare by 2026. We Moderates put the jobs and skills supply before the exceptions. It is unreasonable that tens of thousands of people come to Sweden every year to do jobs that unemployed people in Sweden can do, the Prime Minister has said. Some would call this inconsistency. I would call it a failed job policy. My question to the Minister for Labour is: Why else is it that these jobs are not included in the Swedish labour market?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-243	Mr President, I would like to Labour immigration has an important role to play in the Swedish labour market. That's exactly what Jessica Polfjärd says. We have many professions where it is not possible to find the right skills in Sweden and where it is absolutely necessary that it is easy to bring people from other countries here to do the jobs. However, it should not be the case that you abuse the rules or take advantage of people. Now we have had the OECD's most liberal legislation for quite a few years, and we have been able to draw conclusions from this. It is precisely in those professions where there are already plenty of people in Sweden who can take the jobs that people are fooled and exploited, sometimes under terrible conditions. We want to put an end to this. It also provides an opportunity to make a little more generous assessments for the many professions where there is a shortage and where we need labour migration.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-245	Mr President, I would like to There are still sectors that call for skills and see that the Swedish market is not enough without having to turn abroad to get the right people who want to work. In principle, I believe that all sectors bear witness to the same thing. Then I think this answer is not enough. It is about making it more complicated and more administrative, but there is one of the criticisms about current legislation here. My question to the Minister for Labour is: what is the government's response to solving the supply of skills?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-246	Mr President, I would like to The most important answer to the problem of skills supply is education. As far as labour migration is concerned, we have doubled the number of permits granted to IT programmers and engineers. It should remain simple, hopefully simpler than today, with labour migration in those professions where there is a shortage. But we are going to put an end to the sometimes terrible exploitation that happens when people are lured here under false pretenses, are removed from passports and sometimes have to work under slave-like conditions and live in basements.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-249	Mr President, I would like to My question is also addressed to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. To relate to Jessica Polfjärd's introduction: In a few hours' time, we will vote on the proposal that 9 000 adults who have abused the asylum system to come here without protection should nevertheless be given a place to stay in Sweden. It is likely to be voted through, but there is a chance to refer the matter back. There are a great many things wrong with this proposal. I think everyone in here is aware of that. Never before has a matter received such sharp criticism from the Law Council as this. But now it is the Minister of Labour and Establishment who is here. I was going to ask you a question with the Center Party entrance. They have described this as a form of labour immigration. How does Ylva Johansson estimate that these 9 000 users of our asylum law will fit into the Swedish labour market?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-253	Mr President, I would like to Let me first respond to Paula Bieler's words. People who have come here as minors to seek asylum have since suffered long processing times. They can't help it because it has taken them so long to be treated that they may have turned 18 and then be judged according to a different regulatory framework. This is not a misuse of the asylum system. It is about people who have ended up in this situation without fault of their own. Nor have they been able to apply for asylum in another country because of the Dublin rules. They have been trapped in the Swedish system with the long processing times. This is not an easy question. It requires that you can sometimes see nuances. It's not all black or white. It's reasonable that they get another chance. I believe that we have good opportunities to get these people into the labour market via education – vocational training.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-257	Mr President, I would like to You can react to language. I'm reacting to content. It is a fact that these people have no need of protection. In my opinion, it is a fact that they have abused the asylum system when they chose to apply for asylum in Sweden. Regarding the Dublin rules, I can say that it is difficult to get to Sweden as a first country. I don't think I'm getting enough answers to the question. This is about adults with no need for protection coming from areas where there is often also a lack of any connection to our labour market and a lack of training that is needed here. How are they going to get into the Swedish labour market, when we already have enormous difficulties with this group today?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-259	Mr President, I would like to If you apply for asylum, you are a minor and you are a child, you have it as a basis for assessment for asylum reasons. If you are assessed as an adult, you have other criteria for assessing asylum. Having passed the 18-year limit due to long processing times is not abusing the asylum system. I am pleased that Paula Bieler is getting better and better with the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market. Today it is twice as fast for people to get a job as a few years ago – within two years. It's going very strongly in the right direction. I have good hopes that these young people will also enter the labour market.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-261	Mr President, I would like to We can see that the climate threat is serious. But on the Liberal side and on my side, we are very clear that conservation of biodiversity and nature conservation must be given equal priority. In this context, protection of a valuable nature is an important tool. As far as forests are concerned, we, the Liberals, fully support the equality of production and environmental objectives. Ownership and freedom under responsibility are also important and absolutely central concepts. Sometimes you have to protect the forest. There are forests that are very much worth preserving. Unfortunately, however, the discussion often gets caught up in levels of funding. This has been the case many times in this House. There has been very little discussion on how to develop new contracts and forms of compensation. However, an announcement has been made here in Parliament about this. My question to the Minister for the Environment is whether the Minister is open to developing a more dynamic forest protection that can change over time and geographically. Perhaps one could compare it with some form of lease or lease agreement.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-265	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Lars Tysklind for the way he emphasises the balance between production goals and conservation goals and the balance between the importance of ownership and the importance of the active protection of nature in Sweden. It is the Riksdag's decision that the two should work together, and the government does just that. We have different types of protection in Sweden. It is area protection that is very clearly linked to compensation, and then we have species protection that is not automatically linked to compensation. We have announced, from the government's side, a review of the species protection regulations, including an opening to exactly what Lars Tysklind talks about possible possibilities for compensation.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-267	Mr President, I would like to I hope that we agree that it is very important that full compensation should be paid if restrictions on the right of disposal are imposed. Liberals have clearly highlighted the issue of state-owned forest and could continue to develop the method of using it as an exchange forest. We see it as a successful method. How does the Minister for the Environment see that the state forest could also be used in other ways? This could involve research into logging methods and farming methods where one is prepared to use state forests.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-269	Mr President, I would like to As Minister for the Environment, it is obvious to me that the landowner who develops and preserves natural values on his land should be able to combine it with a good economy in his business. We need forms of protection and compensation that benefit precisely that. We will also use the state-owned forest. That is why we have given several of the actors who manage the land of the state the task of developing new farming methods, continuity farms, etcetera.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-272	Mr President, I would like to In recent years we have gained a lot of new entry into the Swedish labour market. Thank God we've had a fantastic boom. It is a golden position when the two occur at the same time, if the matching and Arbetsförmedlingen had worked, that is. Today, every other person considers the Public Employment Service to be inefficient, slow and rigid. Only a quarter of the job seekers say that they have benefited greatly from the Employment Service. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the fact that the match has deteriorated in recent years. IAF has also criticised the way in which the exercise of authority is carried out. It is serious criticism that we see against Arbetsförmedlingen. In recent years we have had an ongoing renewal work at Arbetsförmedlingen. On the part of the Center Party, we have been critical and have said that we need to have a different order, although it may of course be necessary for a transitional period.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-277	Mr President, I would like to I can make Annika Qarlsson happy that the Arbetsförmedlingen is doing better and better. The group that believes it has been assisted by the Employment Service to find work and education is now over 40 per cent. The results in most respects are very clear in the right direction. Youth unemployment is low. The 90-day guarantee is fulfilled. Perhaps the biggest challenge for Arbetsförmedlingen is to get newcomers to work faster than has been before. When I took office, it was 27 percent who left the start-up assignment for work or study. Last year, 34 percent did so. The first three months of this year were 41 per cent, and the April figure is 44 per cent. It's moving in the right direction. The answer to the question is: No, I am not satisfied. There's a lot more going on before I'm happy. But I am very pleased that the development is moving in the right direction with Arbetsförmedlingen. It is important for a well-functioning labour market.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-280	Mr President, I would like to There are figures pointing in the right direction, from extremely low levels should be added. I guess it's a good thing it's going in the right direction. So do I. What we can see is that it falls into so many different areas. This is where we have this window and you have the chance to use the amazing boom we are in. Contracts are missed. I went to see Keolis the other day. They're screaming for bus drivers, but the contract has fallen. It doesn't work at all. This simply means that buses are without drivers.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-283	Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat again: I am not satisfied. There's a lot more to do. However, long-term unemployment is clearly falling, long-term unemployment among young people has halved during our term of office, entry into the labour market is much faster, the results of labour market training are moving in the right direction and procurement has become more and more orderly. I still want to problematize a little bit. It is important that labour market training works and can meet skills needs. But it cannot only be labour market training that meets the skills needs. Regular education also plays an important role in this.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-286	Mr President, I would like to The government has increased petrol tax, diesel tax and vehicle tax. It has reduced the travel allowance, and it has introduced environmental zones that risk closing diesel cars out of our cities. It's bad politics for all those who don't ride the subway or the electric bike to and from work. My question to Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is: Has the government calculated how much costs have increased for ordinary people who depend on the car? In such cases, how much have the costs increased? Or is it the way you just don't care?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-288	Mr President, I would like to I note that this time, as in the past, Edward Riedl is trying to spread pictures of diesel cars being banned. That is not the case. The fact that we initiate environmental zones means that we get a regulatory framework means that in cities and municipalities in Sweden you have the opportunity to introduce zones with a national regulatory framework where you talk about which cars should have the opportunity to be there. So far, it is a municipality that has announced that interest. It's Stockholm. It has been said that at Hornsgatan in Stockholm, for example, it wants to limit the possibility of having diesel cars, for the reasons that have come. The Diesel scandal could very clearly show that the emissions now on Hornsgatan are serious health hazards for people living along Hornsgatan. I think it is reasonable for us, as national politicians, to take responsibility and create regulations that enable citizens to be protected from health hazards by local authorities. That does not mean that diesel cars will disappear. They will be important and present to a large extent in Sweden, but in urban areas one must be able to limit them on certain surfaces.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-291	Mr President, I would like to Anyone listening to the debate will note that the Minister is not answering my question. The tax on petrol, diesel and vehicle taxes has been increased. Travel deductions have been reduced and environmental zones have been introduced. The government has not calculated how it beats ordinary people outside the cities who depend on the car. Not with a single syllable, not with a single word, does the Minister respond to the fact that people are affected throughout the country by your policies. What the Minister is talking about is the environmental zones and nothing else. I think the answer does not exist, but the Minister can answer that.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-294	Mr President, I would like to I chose to react to the former, because Edward Riedl has spread myths about environmental zones in the wrong way. The diesel, petrol and vehicle taxes have been increased. This was also done during the time when the alliance government ruled the country. We have a system in which we have collected taxes to the extent necessary both to meet important climate targets and to promote the conversion of the vehicle fleet. Seriously, that's what's happening now. Unlike the time when the previous government ruled, we are now seeing a sharp shift in both electrification of the vehicle fleet and more biofuels. We will meet the environmental objective.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-297	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. Last week, the Minister announced that she wanted to make the social orientation of new arrivals mandatory. This is a message that I welcome, although I regret that it has not already been implemented. Social orientation is an important tool for new arrivals to our country to gain knowledge of and embrace the values and legal system on which our country rests. However, the level of participation and the quality of social orientation vary as well. Today there is also a lack of finals in the course. I believe that a final test would tighten up the training and make it more equivalent between different training providers. A final test would also be a confirmation that the participant has understood and accepted the content.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-302	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is important that people who are new to Sweden get an honest chance to learn and take part in the values and norms that underpin how we organize society. Of course, you must also get this knowledge in order to always be able to comply with the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden. We need an obligatorium for this social orientation. I have recently received a report from the Jönköping County Administrative Board, which has the task of reviewing this. They propose an extension of social orientation. They also propose quality assurance for those teaching social orientation, and they propose a change in educational material in social orientation. I think all these elements are important. I think it is about ensuring quality and the presence in social orientation. It's the most important step to take.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-305	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I think it is a very good suggestion that the quality should be ensured and that the number of hours should be increased. But if you do not get a receipt that you have completed the training and if you cannot show that you have understood and adopted what the training contains, the obligatory does not have the full effect. In all other educations – when you study Swedish for immigrants and when you go to college and high school – you get a receipt that you have completed the education. And not only that, but you can also show that you have understood the content. I think this would be a very good idea.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-308	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we continue to develop social orientation, and I am not totally opposed to any kind of control of what has been learned. However, according to the studies and evaluations that have been made and according to the report we have received from the County Administrative Board in Jönköping, the other parts have been chosen to prioritise to ensure that new arrivals really get a proper chance to take in and learn the laws and rules we have. It is also about understanding the norms and values that underpin how we organise society.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-310	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. Last week, the Social Democrats presented an action plan for a safer labour market. It is a follow-up to the ten-point programme which has now become a reality on almost every point. I see the action plan as a strong statement and support for serious employers. It also provides an opportunity to take a major step forward in order for women to have better conditions in the labour market. Anyone who reads the whole action plan clearly notices that the difference in conditions between men and women is great. After metoo, we can see that discrimination, abuse and sexual harassment are linked to women's bad conditions.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-313	Mr President, I would like to There is no order of priority in the action plan presented by my party. Nevertheless, let me highlight some of the issues raised by Mr Serkan. It is about women's working conditions. The Swedish labour market is doing very well, but not everyone in the Swedish labour market is doing well. I would like to point out that it is mainly women who are insecure employment. Therefore, a general fixed-term period needs to be removed so that a reason for fixed-term employment is always required. Of course, we need many fixed-term employment contracts in the Swedish labour market, but we do not need the insecurity that means that there is no need for a fixed-term job. The second is about the planing. This is particularly true of women-dominated industries, where one can suddenly find out from one day to another that the employment one has is no longer full-time, but perhaps half-time and without notice or rotational rules. Here we need a new regulatory framework. The third thing I would like to point out is sexual harassment, where the employer is today responsible for investigating the case of a colleague. We want it to also apply if it is a customer or a user who exposes a person.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Ylva Johansson! The Action Plan addresses issues that can be legislated on but also issues that are important for the social partners to negotiate solutions to. How does the Government view the relationship between legislation and agreements in terms of labour market development?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-319	Mr President, I would like to That's an interesting question. It can be said that historically, the success of improved labour market conditions in Sweden has often been achieved by the fact that the parties have first settled their differences in some sectors, perhaps in many areas of collective agreements, and later the legislation has followed. Then the parties have taken new steps through the contract and the legislation has followed. I think that many times this is a good way to go. For example, I recently received a proposal from the parties on new legislation on the rules of the labour market which I welcome.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-321	Mr President, I would like to For us to meet climate targets, emissions must be reduced in all sectors, not least the transport sector. An effective way to do this is to replace car travel with bicycle travel. In addition to the climate, it has other positive effects, not least on the immediate environment with particles and the like. The government has introduced several things to facilitate cycling, such as cheaper electric bicycles. As a result, there has been an enormous development in this area. The government has now also set up an investigation into land access to build cycle paths.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! No, it's not enough, but it's good. During our term of office, we have got a good start on cycling policy with both a cycling strategy and a national cycling centre. We have also made several important efforts, and the e-bike premium is one such example. The national plan we recently presented also includes major investments in better infrastructure for cycling. Not least in the context of the urban environment agreements, we can ensure that there will be even more efforts, not least in our big cities, which will make it possible to use bicycles instead of cars. This will mean that we will take several steps forward to use the surfaces more efficiently, increase public health and reduce the emissions that otherwise exist from the vehicle fleet. There are still many more things to do, but through the national plan this is the biggest cycling effort we have seen in modern times.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the answer from the Government. I am pleased to hear that the expression proudly but not satisfied can be used in this context as well. There are undoubtedly many more things, some of which the Minister mentioned. There are also regulatory simplifications and the like that have been discussed. I have a supplementary question: what potential does the Minister see that cycling has long-term prospects?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-332	Mr President, I would like to We have had a discussion about what goals we should set to greatly increase cycling. It's hard, because here the challenges are a little special. In large cities and in urban environments, I believe that there are good conditions for properly increasing cycling with the efforts that are taking place, not least within the framework of the urban environment agreements. On the other hand, I am the Minister of Infrastructure for the whole country. I want us to increase cycling throughout the country, because it has actually decreased for a long time in Sweden. That is why we need to find other ways of increasing incentives for cycling both in rural and urban areas. Let us hope for a doubling!
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-335	Mr President, the Minister for Labour. A couple of weeks ago, the unemployment insurance inspection presented a report on the link between the unemployment insurance fund and the trade unions. The unemployment insurance fund must only administer unemployment insurance, and nothing else. All other activities involve acting without legal support. This has not prevented LO associations from using the unemployment fund for membership. The pursuit of new members is apparently superior to staying within the framework. The purpose of all these infringements highlighted by the report appears to be membership recruitment and to benefit them as members of both the unemployment fund and the trade union, although this is contrary to equal treatment provisions. 90% of the unemployment benefit is already tax-financed. Isn't it time to make the unemployment fund public? Should Swedish employees who today have only unemployment benefits receive special treatment and be disadvantaged?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-339	Mr President, I would like to The unemployment insurance inspection has criticised some unemployment insurance funds. It is the cashiers themselves who will respond to the inspection how they intend to correct the views they have received, and I also expect them to do so. This is a process that does not pass through the government but goes directly between the inspection and those who receive criticism from the inspection. That's exactly how the system is set to work. In the case of compulsory unemployment insurance, one exists in Sweden. Everyone who has worked or is working meets a working condition and is covered by unemployment insurance. You can also individually choose to join an unemployment fund and receive an income-related insurance policy. I think this is a good order. There is a basic insurance policy that covers everyone and that is tax-financed. There is an opportunity for the individual to opt for higher insurance cover, up to hopefully 80% of income, by being a member and paying the membership fee for unemployment insurance. I think it's a good order.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-343	Mr President, I would like to The part not covered by general insurance is also up to 90% tax-financed. LO's contract secretary Torbjörn Johansson has said that S has a debt to regulate in view of previous election promises regarding the right to deduct and the union fee, while LO supports the Social Democrats' election movement both financially and with other resources. Are there any other lobbyists, associations or organisations where the government considers it appropriate to go in with financial means and, in return, order legislation? Does LO in this case have a special position?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-346	Mr President, I would like to Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, This was sensitive. I belong to the Social Democratic Workers' Party. We have always worked closely with the working people, the trade union movement and, above all, the Landsorganisation. I'm proud of that cooperation. We believe that it is a good order in the labour market if people choose to join a trade union. Therefore, we have reintroduced the right of deduction so that the individual has the same right to deduct the contribution, just as the employer has the right to deduct the contribution when you are in an employer's organisation – which is also good that employers are. I'm proud of this!
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-349	Mr President, I would like to The Government presented the National Infrastructure Plan for the next 12 years on Monday. 700 billion will be invested in upgrading, building new ones and adapting our infrastructure to the target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030. In order to achieve the high emission targets agreed by six out of eight parties in Parliament, we need to transport goods and goods in a different way. To continue as we do today does not hold. We must reduce the share of road transport and carry more with other modes of transport. But on the railways it is full today. The large railway routes have reached their capacity ceiling, and the great potential currently exists in shipping.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-352	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for the question! It is clear that I am also proud that we can put 700 billion in a national plan. That's 100 billion more than the last government did. We thus meet both great needs in the country for infrastructure and the climate challenge. Maritime transport has a crucial role to play in being able to transport more goods. Since Sweden is a small export-dependent industrial country, we need to be able to transport more goods by sea. More than 5.1 billion will be spent on shipping. This is a doubling of efforts for Swedish shipping compared to previous national plans. There is everything from fairway deepening in the port of Gothenburg to increased capacity in Luleå harbour. There are important efforts to strengthen Swedish shipping, not least in close collaboration with ports and other infrastructure. It is as everyone knows; it is full of tracks, it is tough to transport on the roads and shipping has been underused for a long time. Now we can make sure to strengthen Swedish shipping.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-355	Mr President, I would like to Another 5.1 billion sounds amazing. But I know that Tomas Eneroth had a meeting in January with representatives of all the ports in the country. It was a historic date. It's never happened before. What was said at this date, Tomas Eneroth? Are there any further measures that need to be taken in order to actually get more goods over to shipping?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-357	Mr President, I would like to It was the first time we had invited representatives of the country's ports. The ports have an incredibly important role if we now want to develop Swedish shipping. Shipping is on the increase. The Swedish merchant fleet is growing because of the increase in flagging and the tonnage tax change we have introduced. The ports want to be important nodes in the work. With proper coordination with both digitalisation and infrastructure investments, we can develop Swedish ports to become the link to strengthening Swedish shipping. The representatives were deeply involved in the matter.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-360	Mr President, I would like to I have a general political question for Ylva Johansson. The Act on the organisation of certain slot games dates from 1982. It required special permits and fees for those who want to open an internet café or want to exhibit pinball and arcade games. Many non-profit associations are hampered by the rules because the revenues would be lower than the costs of the permits. The law, in turn, stems from investigations in the 1970s and 1980s when they were considered inappropriate youth environments. Does the government still think they are inappropriate youth environments, and what does the government think of the law in question?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-363	Mr President, I would like to I am keen that association life should find revenue also through, for example, the kind of games that Rickard Nordin here describes. Of course, just because there is a pinball game, it is not that it is an inappropriate environment for young people to be in. Of course, that is not the case. Unfortunately, the question of the view of any new legislation goes beyond what I have the competence to answer. I'll have to pass there.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-365	Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, legislation does not extend beyond Parliament's competence. Three years ago, the Swedish Parliament made a unanimous announcement to the government that the law should be removed, or that automatic games should be completely free of charge. Since then, nothing has happened. It is three years since the decision was taken in the Swedish Parliament. Even a new gaming team has come into place, but those issues are not dealt with. Why, the government?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-367	Mr President, I would like to A new investigation will also be set up after the Riksdag decides on the new Gaming Act. There are a number of questions left to investigate. It is possible that this question belongs to it, but I have to admit that I am not up to date to answer the question.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-369	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Eneroth a question. A well-functioning railway is important for people to be able to get to and from work or studies. It is also crucial for employers to be able to acquire the necessary skills for growth and competitiveness. But Swedish railways are badly neglected. When the government took office, the tone was high, and a high tone obliges delivery of measures. The problems of the railway were to be addressed on the day of a promised Social Democrats in the electoral movement. But soon four years later the problems are great, and frustrated travelers, not least in Mälardalen, are starting to give up. Last week SVT showed a startling report, which we all took note of, about how bad it actually is. Almost all errors, signal errors, non-powered overhead contact lines, etc., last the same high level year in and year out, but the gear changes are increasing dramatically.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I am also concerned about the challenges that exist in the railway sector, not least for many commuters who suffer from signalling errors and exchange errors. It is clear that there is a great responsibility on the part of previous governments to prioritise tax cuts before investment in infrastructure. There is no doubt that for a long time we had a finance minister who thought that all investments in the railways were unprofitable. Now we have a big maintenance debt to take care of. We are greatly increasing the funding. We are increasing the funding for railway maintenance by 47%. The fact is that we tabled proposals for 1.25 billion already in the first financial year to increase funding for railway maintenance. That proposal was voted down by Lotta Finstorp and others from the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. Since then, we have increased the support for maintenance operations each year by more than SEK 1 billion. We are now steering up maintenance, and we are slowly noticing improvements. But recovering years of underinvestment is a great job. That is why I am hopeful if the additional 100 billion we are now adding.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-378	Mr President, I would like to It's time to stop blaming the Alliance. Take responsibility for yourself! You're the government. All internal investigations at Trafikverket indicate that there will be major problems in the railways in the coming years. Employees testify to the fact that money that is being spent does not come out to the tracks. It's a huge problem. Why has the government not done more to deal with the organizational problems that exist for Swedish railways?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-380	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the organisation of maintenance, we now ensure that the Finnish Transport Administration receives a larger share of its own basic maintenance. During the time they allowed maintenance companies to deal with it, there were management and management problems. That is why it has been important for this government to ensure that we have increased control over the maintenance operations that are being carried out. Now a very large part of the basic maintenance will be transferred to Trafikverket, so that you can control it in your own direction. It will be more effective.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-383	Mr President, I would like to I have an important question for Minister Tomas. It is about the President's own constituency and the locks in the Göta River. The locks will soon be out of use. According to the evaluators, they were end-of-life in 2013. And the sluice trail is used for over a hundred years. Now the government has made investment decisions on new locks. If this had not been done, it would have meant 120 000 more long-distance transport in West Sweden. Of course, the road network would have had a completely different load, and that would have reduced road safety in many ways. How does the Minister view developments in maritime transport in the future?
i-Cz7FZ8spvpXaF1k8K2NXjr	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Jörgen Hellman! I think that a great many people are pleased that the investments of 5.1 billion that we will make in shipping in general will give Väners shipping a real boost. We invest not least in the locks – with SEK 3.2 billion – in the port of Gothenburg and other parts. It will mean a boost for shipping. This will mean that we are transferring even more freight capacity to shipping. It relieves the road network, and it means climate-smart transport. I have noted in regional media that we are very pleased with the decisions made by the government. And this is important. It gives a little hope for the future and a little faith in the future for industries that have been hard-tested. They now see that Swedish shipping has a Renaissance period ahead of them. There are opportunities here, for the sake of the climate, but also for a more efficient transport sector, to make the right investments.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-390	Mr President, I would like to It is as the Minister says; this has created faith in the future. It is now also possible within the EU to have a special inland waterway, on Lake Mälaren and in the Göta River, so that smaller container ships can be brought in.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-393	Mr President, I would like to The government will shortly present a good strategy. It is the first that has ever been developed in Sweden. There we will just describe how shipping can be coordinated with land transport in a better way so that we optimise freight transport in Sweden. A good example can be seen in part here in the Stockholm area when moving material for the reconstruction of Slussen via shipping instead of trucks or other on the roads. That's how we need to think. Transporters will need to use more shipping in the future.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-396	Mr President, I would like to As a representative of the Center Party, I am very pleased with the climate target that the Swedish Parliament has endorsed, that 70 per cent reduction of greenhouse gases from transport will be achieved by 2030. That's only 12 years old. Shipping was just discussed. It is one of the modes of transport to be redeployed. An example of a transport company with a changing shipping industry is HH-Ferries-Ferries, which operates the Helsingborg – Helsingör route. They have installed electric drive, and to be consistent they also offer electric car charging on their ferries. At the same time, the company is facing a very strong tariff increase from the Swedish Maritime Administration. The Government of Eneroth's authority thus raises the price for those who try to make an effort to do the right thing.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-400	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Anders Åkesson! I know that Anders Åkesson shares the view that, in the long run, we cannot have a maritime service that does not have funding for its activities. That was the case for a long time. It failed to finance the important activities of the Swedish Maritime Administration. That is why the work has now increased the fairway dues in two rounds, in order to ensure that it has a long-term structure for the important maritime policy that we are pursuing. It is clear that I am prepared to look at how the fees are beating, to see if adjustments are needed in the future. But there is no doubt that shipping is currently being strengthened throughout the country. I think Anders Åkesson is also well aware of that belief in the future. Then it should be climate smart. That's why we deliver eco-bonus. It is a model that means that 50 million can be used by maritime operators precisely to stimulate the transition to electrification or LNG. In this way, we are changing shipping. And I am prepared to listen to many good suggestions in this area.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-405	Mr President, I would like to We have a political agreement in Parliament that the government says it is following, that is to say that it is changing to a more climate-smart transport sector. But it will be strange if the government's own authorities at the same time act with a policy of signal which is perceived by the actors, those who are to change in reality, as being punished when they change and make an effort. It's strange, isn't it, Minister?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-407	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is strange if the actors feel that they are being punished. No one can miss the fact that during this term of office there is a clear change in the transport sector. The latest figures show that the transport sector's contribution to emissions is actually decreasing – thanks to the fuel reduction and biofuel change, thanks to electrification, thanks to all the efforts we make. Furthermore, if we can transfer more goods or, for that matter, passenger traffic on shipping, it will help to increase the shift. If there is reason to make adjustments, I am prepared to listen to them.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-410	Mr President, I would like to The government's balance sheet in infrastructure policy is nothing to boast about. The term of office has been marked by a cavalcade of manslaughter laws against transport and travel. It has hit the economy of households, the aviation industry and the haulage industry hard. Strongly increased petrol tax, increased diesel tax, increased vehicle's cat, reduced travel tax, air tax and planned bans on diesel cars in some cities are just a few examples of the anti-transport policy that the government has been working on in recent years. Then I have not even mentioned the lack of road maintenance, Mr President. At the same time, the government has introduced a subsidy for electric bicycles that will cost the Swedish people hundreds of millions. The deduction is said to have been produced for environmental reasons. Therefore, I wonder whether Minister Karolina Skog is satisfied with the geographical spread of who uses the grant and whether the outcome is as planned regarding the socio-economic consequences of the deduction.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-413	Mr President, I would like to I must begin by repeating the recent correction by the Minister for Infrastructure to the description of what the environmental zone regulations actually are. They are not a ban on diesel cars. They are an opportunity for municipalities that have illegally high levels of hazardous emissions, i.e. air quality that harms children and the elderly, to regulate and manage it. They get a tool for it. That is what an environmental zone provision is. The government is pursuing an extremely active policy to ensure that we have a shift in the transport sector, in order to achieve the goal set by Parliament that emissions should be reduced by 70 per cent. At the same time, we shall achieve the objectives that apply to the environment, that is to say, the air. One measure is the electric vehicle premium that can be applied for by everyone, so that more people can afford to obtain an efficient electric vehicle.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-416	Mr President, I would like to I repeat my question: is the Government satisfied with the geographical distribution of those who use the grant? And is the outcome planned on the socio-economic consequences of the deduction?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-417	Mr President, I would like to We've had an electric vehicle premium in place for a few months. And the outcome has not turned out as we thought. We could not have expected this explosion of demand for electric bicycles and light electric mopeds in Sweden. The work is now working intensively to try to process all the applications that come in. We could not have believed this. There is still no evaluation, as the grant has been available for a very short time. But of course it will be evaluated in the future.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-421	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Anna Ekström my question. The vocational programmes in high school are very important for our labour market. Today, about 100,000 jobs are not being filled. Employers are looking for people, but they can't find the people who have the right skills. Vocational programmes are a key factor in the supply of labour in industry and also in welfare where the needs are high. Unfortunately, interest in professional programmes has decreased by one third. The students themselves say that the reason is that the previous government did not introduce higher education qualifications into vocational programmes. That is why the question is: how are we going to move forward now to make professional programmes more attractive and thus to ensure that young people get jobs? Above all, the gaps in the labour market need to be filled. What can we do in this area to improve the situation?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-425	Mr President, I would like to This issue is very important. It is not just the students who say that the lack of higher education qualifications scares students away from vocational programmes. It also says all trade unions, employers' organisations, principals and teachers in the professional programmes. As a matter of fact, in principle, everyone stands up for the government's proposals on the table of this House. The proposal is to make professional programmes more attractive. The scope and depth of the professions should be maintained, but the professional programmes should also provide higher education qualifications with an opportunity for pupils to opt out of it, if they do not want it. This proposal had until two months ago support in this House. The Moderate Assembly Party stood in the speaker's seat and said that it would support this and that it was a mistake to abolish university qualifications. There is still time for Parliament to redo and do the right thing.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-429	Mr President, I would like to I think it's quite unique that all the parties involved are on the same side here. Employers, trade unions, students themselves and everyone concerned want us to do something about the situation. I guess it's just to hope it becomes a parliamentary majority. Then I would also like to mention that the government has done a lot more to make the professional programmes attractive. The government really does everything in its power, but now it also requires a parliamentary decision to be able to attract students and thus meet the needs.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-431	Mr President, I would like to Of course, Hillevi Larsson is absolutely right. The government has done much to strengthen the attractiveness of professional programmes. This particular piece of the puzzle is missing, to ensure that the programs are such that the students want to choose them themselves. There it seems that Parliament is about to reject the proposal. For me, it is an unusual situation for employers' representatives to call me, a socialist minister, and ask me for help to persuade the Moderates. Dear Moderates and others! My door is open if you want to discuss this matter for the sake of Sweden and for the sake of the supply of skills.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-435	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. I would like to highlight this point by the fact that development and belief in the future are linked to investment in infrastructure. The initiative that the government has now presented with SEK 700 billion for the next eleven years to improve the infrastructure is long awaited. It is also welcomed by many of the municipalities and industry concerned. In my own country there are 33 municipalities that have supported a joint planning work for Skåne and what is important to highlight there. It is also important for the national perspective. There is, for example, a fixed connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör, and there is an investigation about this. It's three kilometers from one port to the other. How does the Minister for Infrastructure view this type of investment in the Öresund region from a national perspective?
i-R4oCK6HmNav2zJEqtvrnmC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson! Infrastructure investments in Skåne are not only important for Skåne, they are important for the whole country. A large part of the freight traffic goes through Skåne, and a large part of the growth is generated in this beautiful country – if I may say so. It is clear that it is absolutely crucial that we become orderly when we invest in the route between Lund and Hässleholm. It is of great importance to the capacity of the rail system, as well as to other investments. For example, the end of the West Coast Line into Helsingborg is absolutely crucial. The Helsingborg– Helsingör connection has been discussed for a long time. We have good experience of the Öresund bridge connection. Let us now examine the possibilities of investigating and analysing what a fixed connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör could mean. There is an interest on the Danish side and also on the Swedish side. With commuter traffic and other traffic, it could broaden the entire working region and create hope and confidence in the future.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-441	Mr President, I would like to An important part of the preparations for the proposal put forward by the Government, which includes an important initiative, is cooperation and cooperation between municipalities, regions and stakeholders. How does the Minister of Infrastructure see that we can further strengthen it and ensure that the plans that are now under way and possibly also future projects are implemented?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-443	Mr President, I would like to I think that is absolutely crucial. In fact, the Swedish Transport Administration's way of developing the national plan and also the Swedish negotiation method was different this time. Municipalities and regions were involved in a completely different way than before. We are not just talking about which roads and railways are to be built. We're building society. We are building Sweden. Then more actors must be involved in this building of society. If we are to achieve this, we need better coordination, but also a long-term strategy. We are now investing 700 billion, and it feels safe and good.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-446	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the minister of high school. Next to her is the Minister for Infrastructure, who has promised 700 billion in infrastructure investments. There are a number of students in the gallery. They are the ones who will finance the 700 billion when they enter the labour market. But for them to be able to do so, higher education qualifications are needed in upper secondary school. There is no need for certificates of joy, but the students need knowledge. What will the government do to manage to provide this knowledge in order to manage to finance the 700 billion and to enable students to be competitive in the future?
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. To the students in the gallery and everyone else I can say that the Swedish school, both comprehensive school and upper secondary school, will offer very good knowledge and very good education. You should bring with you what you need to support yourself, to be able to study and not least to be an active citizen of society who can distinguish true from false and know what works and what doesn't work. One problem is that the Swedish upper secondary school has found it so difficult to recruit young people to the vocational programmes. Today, only half the number of young people go to vocational programmes compared to 2006. We Social Democrats and the government want to strengthen professional programmes. That question will be on Parliament's table quite soon. We have so far had support in Parliament, but today it seems that the alliance parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, will vote against strengthening the professional programmes, which I feel is a great pity for young people and employers and, above all, a pity for Sweden. This means that we are missing out on opportunities to grow.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-453	Mr President, I would like to I see that we are endangering all our future opportunities to grow as a country if young people do not get the knowledge they need. It is wise young people who choose the education that gives them opportunities for further development in life. It is therefore important for the entire upper secondary school to offer the opportunity to develop further in life.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-454	Mr President, I would like to In addition, all young people deserve the right grades. The Swedish comprehensive school and the Swedish upper secondary school should see the grades as proof of how much the student has learned. That's what should be shown and not which school you went to. We have received very boring reports in the last few days that show that there are quite large differences in the rating depending on which school you go to. We also want to stop this, above all by putting an end to the prize hunt in the Swedish school and ensuring that knowledge and education are the goal, not profit.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-456	Mr President, I would like to This is an excellent opportunity to dominate the House, as I find that my opponents have not made it here. Let me make a brief comment on the matter. It is a letter from the government, and the proposal for a decision is that it should be added to the file. For four years the debates on these letters have been held in the shadow of the forthcoming legislation and the investigation carried out during the last parliamentary term. Last year the bill came and was voted through in this House. We now have new legislation. This year's report therefore relates to the previous legislation. We will have to wait until next year to give our first opinion on how the new legislation works. I would like to make one point. Earlier in the debate, it was mentioned that the decisions taken under the current export legislation to some countries would be due to an economic preference for industry. I object to that. As the decisions are designed, it is a matter of taking Swedish security interests into account. It is the governing body because when you make the difficult balance between Swedish security interests and the damage the weapons could do in the wrong hands.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-459	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister for Civil Affairs how the regional development funds are allocated, what account is taken of the current challenges and how the evaluation of the funds paid is carried out. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government conducts a modern and active regional growth policy for the whole country, which will contribute to Sweden receiving competitive, dynamic and attractive regions. The Government's focus on regional growth policy is a strong local and regional influence and responsibility. The funds allocated to the counties will act as a catalyst for strategic development efforts. The basis for the allocation of funds is that all parts of the country can and will contribute to Sweden's sustainable growth and development. However, different parts of the country face different major challenges, and the needs for state resources thus differ. In all counties there are regional development actors who are responsible, among other things, for developing and defining a strategy for the development of the county and coordinating efforts for the implementation of the strategy. The actors also decide on the use of certain government funds for regional growth work and are responsible for monitoring, evaluating and reporting annually to the Government the results of the work. The best knowledge of what is needed to develop Södermanland County is in Södermanland. For this reason, regional development actors have also been allocated funds by the government to strengthen, among other things, the competitiveness of companies. The County Administrative Board of Södermanland County and the cooperation body of the county, the Regional Association of Sörmland, have been awarded over SEK 19 million in 2018 for regional growth efforts. The Government's monitoring of regional growth efforts is reported annually to the Riksdag in the budget bill. The Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with developing a new national monitoring system for the project activities financed by the grant 1:1 Regional growth measures. The follow-up system should take into account, among other things, the varying conditions prevailing in different counties, while the follow-up system should strengthen the possibilities for national follow-up.
i-63ff8ff6a97458a9-463	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson asks what I intend to do to ensure long-term profitability in Swedish milk production. Milk weighing in the EU increased by 1.8 per cent in 2017 compared to 2016. During the year, large producer countries such as Germany and France had slightly lower weights than in the previous year, while, for example, Ireland, Poland and Romania increased their production. The Swedish weighting was 1.6 per cent lower than one year earlier. The average sales price of milk in the EU is historically high. The average Swedish sales price – actual fat and protein content – including additions was SEK 3.69 per kilogram of milk in January 2018. This is SEK 0.15 higher than in January 2017 and SEK 0.66 higher than in January 2016. It is much needed and gratifying that milk prices are now at a good level. However, we know that milk prices will continue to shift with developments in global markets. That is why strengthening competitiveness is extremely important. When the milk crisis was at its deepest in 2015, I called for a meeting with representatives of organisations, companies and authorities related to milk production. A common management plan for milk was developed. In this, operators in the industry defined measures to strengthen dairy businesses. Responsibility for the actions was attached to the various actors and based on their commitment and willingness to act. The 87 measures are therefore not a list of orders for policy. The fact that we need to improve the long-term rules of the game was behind the government's development of the national food strategy. Parliament's decision of 20 June 2017 on long-term goals for the food chain and a national food strategy until 2030 is a historic decision, not least because it so clearly emphasises the growth of food production based on increased productivity and sustainability. Until 2019, the Government is investing a good billion in the implementation of the food strategy. Within the framework of the Government Action Plan, nearly 40 missions have been decided and half a billion under the Rural Development Programme are earmarked for the Food Strategy. These include several measures to increase exports of Swedish food and to strengthen competitiveness through research and innovation. The Government has also decided on the assignment of cost-effective construction in agriculture, agricultural management, plant breeding and plant protection. I lead a national implementation council with representatives of the whole food chain where various issues for implementation are discussed. The government also leads a strategic authority group with particularly important authorities for the implementation of the food strategy. This is long-term work that requires determination and a long-term perspective. I hope for continued good cooperation in the policy of long-term rules of play and with all the actors involved in the positive development of dairy business in Sweden.
