i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-6	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me what concrete measures I have taken in the performance of my duties to narrow the gap between the employment rate of natives and those born abroad. He has also asked whether I can give examples of what concrete measures I intend to take to reduce the unemployment gap between foreign born men and women, whether I believe that the government is doing enough to improve the integration of new arrivals and whether I see a link between the doubling of employers' contributions for young people, the deterioration of the RUT and ROT deductions and the increased employment gap between foreign and domestic born. Since the government took office, more than 250 000 more people have been in employment. Two thirds of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children. It has taken up to ten years in the past before half of the new arrivals have established themselves on the labour market. New figures from Statistics Sweden are now showing an improvement and almost half of those received in 2011 had jobs after five years. If progress continues in the same positive way, the time from reception to work should be allowed to continue. However, major challenges remain, not least with regard to the entry of newly arrived women into the labour market. A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newcomers in working and social life entered into force on 1 January 2018. The new regulatory framework strengthens the Swedish Public Employment Service's ability to provide the right responses based on the individual's needs, while clarifying the requirements for the individual. The government is investing heavily in education, and on 1 January 2018 a compulsory education requirement was introduced for new arrivals. The possibility of subsidised employment represents an important route to jobs for groups that are far from the labour market. The government is reforming the system for subsidised employment. Several employment grants are merged into a unified and more powerful support – introductory jobs. Extra services and modern preparedness jobs are ways into the labour market for newcomers and the long-term unemployed, as well as the fast track for newcomers with skills in certain shortage jobs. In cooperation with the municipalities, Arbetsförmedlingen is now developing local job tracks. The government has also agreed with the social partners that start-up jobs should be introduced. The aim is for more new arrivals and the long-term unemployed to enter the labour market and to facilitate the future supply of skills for employers. The Government also presented in the 2018 Budget Bill efforts to promote the participation of more women born abroad in the labour market. These include efforts to increase women's entrepreneurship, additional promotions to the Delegation for Young People and Newcomers to work, and increased funding for municipalities to offer measures during parental leave. The Employment Service has been tasked with working specifically to reduce unemployment and increase the employment rate of women born abroad. The Government has also abolished the custody allowance and limited parental insurance for people who come to Sweden with children who are older than a year. Raising the employment rate of foreign-borns, especially women, and breaking long-term unemployment are high priorities for the government. The Government has taken a number of measures aimed at shortening the way to work for new arrivals and at making more people come to work. We are also planning further measures.
i-MBsGPZkzt9Zhv8GK69RLLJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is very important for Sweden to solve integration challenges and get more people in jobs. But it is at least as important for the individual, who must have a place in the labour market. Regrettably, the government's policy in this area does not impress either, in terms of the outcome, that is, how many people come to work, or the entrepreneurs who are going to hire foreign-born. Since 2010, I have had the privilege of having regular round-table talks with foreign-born entrepreneurs, about ten per time. It's very good to have a discussion and discuss: You've made this journey. What things do you think are important and that we politicians should do? ..................................................... One of these round tables I had in Gävle a few years ago. I also had a seminar here in the Riksdag on Wednesday, with foreign-born entrepreneurs. If you agree with what entrepreneurs say with the government's policy, it is interesting to see that there may be a reason why the gap between foreign born and domestic born is increasing in the labour market. One of the most important things that always comes up is language. At the seminar on Wednesday, one of the entrepreneurs said: Why don't you make more of what works? Make sure people get to work right away and learn the language at work! For example, it is a question of improving SFI teaching, and perhaps above all of combining work with SFI teaching. It is also about the attitude towards entrepreneurship. At the round table in Gävle some time ago, many entrepreneurs from different industries were there – there was some dentist, and there was some glass master. They said that the attitude towards entrepreneurship is the most important thing: Lift us up like the integration heroes we are! Don't black me out as an entrepreneur! ..................................................... When the Iranian dentist came to Sweden a long time ago – I think it was 1986 – they had a year to learn Swedish. If you didn't learn Swedish for a year, you had to leave Sweden. At the round table, Mohammad Yazdani just said, "What do you think I did?" Do you think I learned Swedish in a year? ..................................................... There is also talk about the importance of taxes. You have to keep a greater share of the profits so that you can develop your business and make investments in your own business. This is important. I believe that if we do not solve the jobs of the large volume of people who have come to Sweden, the cuts you have made in the LSS – the Finance Minister has said that you should save on support under the LSS, to finance the management of the refugee crisis – will be a fan of the West against what the next alliance government will have to do. As the Government itself said, it is a huge failure in terms of the proportion of women born abroad in the labour market. I will come back to that in my next speech.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-23	Mr President, I would like to Maybe we should fix a few things. Nevertheless, developments are moving in the right direction. The employment gap between foreign and domestic born was 11–12 per cent in 2005; in 2013 it was 10 per cent and now the gap is 8 per cent. Of course, I'm not happy with that. But the gap between foreign and domestic born has narrowed. The proportion of people who come to work after the establishment at Arbetsförmedlingen, which is normally two years old, has also increased significantly since this government took office, despite the fact that many more are enrolled in the commission. I am in no way satisfied with the results. But it is moving in the right direction. It has taken between eight and ten years before half of a group of newcomers are established in the labour market, and this is measured by a certain level of annual income. Now it looks like time to be able to halve to five years before you are established in the labour market. The development is therefore moving in the right direction, it is important to remember. Nevertheless, the challenges are huge. Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman said here that you should make sure that people come to work right away and learn the language at work. I think it's a very good idea. That is why I am also talking to employers, and they, together with the trade unions, have wanted a new form of employment support. That is why we have now agreed with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, with LO and with the Union to introduce start-up jobs that mean that the employer employs at a low cost even people who may not yet know the job and do not yet speak well enough Swedish. It wants to do this with the aim of creating a permanent full-time service and contributing to the skills recruitment of the company. The community then provides resources for, among other things, education. This is exactly how you need to work for more people to get to work. It is very sad that the Moderates, who said earlier that they would welcome if the parties agreed, now do not seem to welcome it.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-28	Mr President, I would like to I do not think anyone in this House doubts the fact that the Social Democrats during an election year can produce many subsidised jobs. I don't think anyone doubts that you're good at number-playing during an election year. Last Wednesday I brought Jan Edling to the seminar I had on migration and entrepreneurship. He talked about the report he wrote in 2005 when he left LO in anger because he was not allowed to tell that 10 percent of the labour force was retired early. Jan Edling has written two new reports that are very worth reading. I assume the Government has read them. At the seminar last Wednesday Jan Edling said something like this: I'm not so worried about those who have arrived now. For them, I'm sure it'll work out. I am more concerned about what might be called third-generation immigrants, that is, the children of those who have come here who live in suburbs and who have not learned the language. I'm most worried about them. How will they contribute if they end up completely outside society? At the same seminar last Wednesday, two very active foreign-born entrepreneurs told of a friend who had 20 employees. He was a super-entrepreneur. It was just that it was a completely black operation. It is good that Ylva Johansson is not satisfied, but you have had four years to actually address these issues. It is clear that it is a concern that the working population of natives was 84 per cent in 2016, while that was 61 per cent among foreign-borns. If I agree with the little list that I got from the companies about what they think we politicians should do, there were some things that stuck out. Attitudes to both entrepreneurship and work need to be improved. There, the Swedish people can decide for themselves whether we have a government that encourages or blacks out entrepreneurship. It must always pay to work rather than live passively on benefits. The Swedish people have to think about what the government has done for politics. Is it the case that taxes have been reduced or increased for those who work? Is it that you have increased the benefits that have made it pay less to work? One entrepreneur said: There are vacant jobs in our industry, but the combined effect of various grants means that it can be more profitable to live on benefits instead of working. The consequence is that many people do not apply for our job vacancies. That's what they said from a cleaning company. It is important to learn Swedish and to be integrated into society, to understand values and attitudes. If you don't know Swedish, you can't work or run a company. Then you can think about how the start-up advice works in Sweden. In how many different languages are there? What an attitude you have towards the one who comes here. Is it: How good you are, Lars Beckman, who has taken you to Sweden, now we will help you to start a business? Or do you have a different attitude and attitude? Just as I said in my opening speech, I think that if we don't get people into jobs, and I don't mean subsidised jobs, then there's going to be an enormous effort on our welfare systems. The coming government must make cuts if we are to passively support half a million people or more who do not enter the labour market, and this is probably a situation that Sweden has never experienced.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-40	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman seems to have some difficulty with reality. The truth is that we have a strong labour market. There are lots of companies that start and want to hire. One of the major problems in the labour market is that there are so many vacancies, so many jobs that cannot be filled. The SNS Economic Council addressed the question of whether there are sufficient incentives to move from so-called grants to work. It noted that there were no such problems. It is not an area where reforms are needed because the incentives are very strong in Sweden as they stand today. Mr President, I would like to Developments have moved in the right direction during our time in government. This is, of course, partly due to the reforms implemented by the government. When we took over responsibility for the establishment of new arrivals there was much that was undone. We had to deal with several major structural reforms. An important one was to ensure that all municipalities are involved and share responsibility for receiving, establishing and integrating new arrivals. It is amazing that Sweden has for such a long time allowed responsibility to fall on a few municipalities that have had to take a very large responsibility also for the problems of segregation that result when you have such an uneven reception. Now we have such a reform in place that means that all municipalities are involved and share responsibility. Another important area of reform was parental insurance. The old government had introduced a custody allowance which in practice became a female trap for women born abroad, often newly arrived women. We have abolished that. We have also implemented other reforms in parental insurance to ensure that it provides support for combining work and family responsibilities, and not a women's trap where you are at home for a long time and away from the labour market. Therefore, we have limited the withdrawal that is possible for the parents of the children who are over a year old when they come here to Sweden. It is an important structural reform. The third is that we have reformed the establishment reform carried out by the old government. This reform had several positive aspects, including the transfer of responsibility for the establishment from municipalities to the Public Employment Service. But there was one thing missing. There were no demands on the individual. Now we have introduced such a requirement. The individual has rights that were introduced by the old government, but now the individual also has obligations. This means that if you do not participate in the activities to be taken part in – language teaching, practice and much more – you can get rid of your allowance in the same way as for all other unemployed people who are enrolled in and receive support from Arbetsförmedlingen. The government has really worked for high pressure on these issues, and we also see results. Progress is moving in the right direction. When I took office, it was 27 percent who moved on from the commission of establishment to work or studies. Now it's 34 percent. This is a clear positive development despite the fact that there are a record number of people enrolled in the establishment mission. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that it is serious that a Member of Parliament calls Sweden's official statistics numerically. It is Statistics Sweden's central office that is responsible for Sweden's official employment statistics through its labour force surveys. There it is clear that the employment gap between domestic and foreign born has narrowed. A number of years ago it was about 11 percent, and now the figure is down to 8 percent. The gap has clearly narrowed over time. It needs to continue to decline, but it is not a trifle thing the government is doing. The government relates to the official statistics. Members of Parliament should do the same.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-50	Mr President, I would like to The Ylva Johansson Government raises her tone when she is unanswered, but I have no problem with that. So it is the Social Democrats who are typifying for an election by evicting on with welfare jobs during a boom. I have respect that Ylva Johansson does not read Today's industry, of course it may not be a priority. But we can have a reading from an interview with your boss the other day: The most important election promise of the Social Democrats in 2014 was that by 2020 Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. The government may recognize that electoral promise. Then the journalist continues: However, according to Eurostat, Sweden has slipped from place 12 to place 16. Mr President, I would like to This is worrying. It should also be of concern to the government if we look at the employment rate. Among the refugees and refugees received by municipalities, the employment rate was 30 per cent among women who came here in 2012. The acquisition rate among those who came here in 2013 was 24 per cent. The acquisition rate among those who came here in 2014 was 18 per cent. The acquisition rate of the women who came here in 2015 was 7 per cent, and the acquisition rate of those who came here in 2016 was 2 per cent. It is obvious that Sweden has great problems with getting people who come here to start working quickly. This is happening in a fiery boom. Imagine what it will be like when we enter a recession, Mr President! After a boom, there is always a recession. What, then, will it look like on the labour market? I think a lot needs to be done, for example, to get more companies to hire foreign-borns and get more foreign-borns to start businesses.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-56	Mr President, I would like to I have said it before, and I say it again: I am not satisfied. There's a lot more to do. I have stated this both in the written interpellation response and in the speeches here in the debate. That is why, among other things, we have sat down with the social partners and agreed to introduce start-up jobs. More effort is needed. The additional services work well in the public sector, but we need a corresponding investment in the private sector. Now we have agreed on jobs entirely according to the model that employers are asking for, which should involve as little hassle as possible for them. Of course, more things need to be done. Nevertheless, it is important, Mr President, to stick to reality. Progress is moving in the right direction. At the large refugee reception Sweden had in 2015, we received more refugees than any other OECD country in history has ever done in relation to its capital. All felt that unemployment would increase as a result. Instead, we have managed to achieve a trend in which unemployment is clearly falling and is continuing to fall clearly. It is falling because more and more people are working, not because they are disappearing from the labour market for other reasons. On the contrary, we have an increase from an already record-high level in the proportion of people in the labour force and those in employment. We also have a clear fall in unemployment. Yesterday, new figures came from the Central Statistical Office, which pointed even more clearly to falling unemployment. Mr President, I would like to True, there are many challenges. I have a lot of work to do, which I do too. But the development is moving in the right direction, and that is good.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-61	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me how I believe that we can best ensure that monitoring and monitoring is carried out to ensure that regional safety representatives, while they are paid by state funds, do not engage in party political work. The Swedish labour market model is based on strong and responsible parties. Safety representatives are an important part of the Swedish work environment system. The task of the Regional Safety Officers is to activate and support the workers' side in the local work environment, mainly in smaller workplaces where there are no safety committees. The State annually makes a contribution to the regional safety ombudsman activities. It is also financed by the organisations themselves. Monitoring of the use of funds has been increased in recent years. From 2014, the accounts of the Regional Safety Officers' activities include nine measurable achievements: number of Regional Safety Officers, number of Annual Workers Regional Safety Officers, number of workplaces visited, number of workplace visits and its main focus, telephone and e-mail counselling, internal training, external training and training costs. In addition, total costs and grants are reported. The government has confidence that the workers' organisations handle their mission responsibly.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-64	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me first state the obvious: we agree that there should be a good working environment at Swedish workplaces. If we look at the outcome where sick leave and ill health are created, we can unfortunately see that this happens in municipalities and county councils and to some extent also in state operations. The lowest absenteeism is found in private companies and, above all, in private small enterprises. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, there is an intense discussion in the media about how the election movement in Sweden might be affected. It is an important debate. It is important to discuss the responsibility of international media giants not to spread fake news, anti-Semitic propaganda or anything else. Unfair influence on the general elections is an extremely important issue for all political parties. There should be no difference in that regard. However, it becomes worrying when LO invests 30 million to help Stefan Löfven win the election and also intends to make demands. This is written in an article in Aftonbladet. There is also a list of requirements for the government. If this had happened in other countries, perhaps we could even call it corruption. In the article from Aftonbladet, LO continues to say that half a million calls will be made, twice as many as in 2014, with members over the phone and in the workplace. Mr President, I would like to We know that LO receives approximately 83 million in state subsidies. They receive it via a grant from the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which goes to regional safety representatives. That is why I put this interpellation, which is about how we ensure that LO does not use these people in party political work to carry out these talks in the workplace and thus ensure that the Social Democrats win the elections. This is about an interest organization that wants to influence the outcome of the election. I have received an answer, which does not really answer my question. But, of course, the Government has the opportunity to do so now. What I am interested in is how we ensure that these funds are not used for party political work to influence the Swedish election outcome. For me, it is a hygiene factor that the means to go to a particular purpose should of course be used for that particular purpose. I also believe that we should have a broader and broader debate on whether it is appropriate to give so much money to an association of interests. Perhaps it will be more pure if you have occupational health and safety advisors who are employed by, for example, the Swedish Work Environment Agency. We just had a debate here about that. So what I want to know is: how do we know that these 83 million are not being used incorrectly? How do we ensure that they do not go to party political work? I would like an answer to that.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-72	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman says we agree on the work for a good working environment. I am not entirely sure that we really agree on that. We could see the truth after the last government. Radical cuts were made in the work environment. There were radical reductions in knowledge building for work environment work by closing down the entire Work Life Institute. Significant parts of occupational health and safety research also suffered from this. In addition, major cuts were made in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's resources, which had consequences. If you think that work environment management is important, you must also ensure that there are resources and skills to carry out this work. Therefore, this government has invested in new resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, corresponding to approximately 100 new inspectors. We have also given the Swedish Work Environment Authority new assignments, including working together with other government agencies to counteract unhealthy competition. We have provided new resources for the work environment research. In addition, a new Agency for Safety and Health at Work will start its work in Gävle this summer. We are currently recruiting a Director-General for this new agency. Regional safety representatives have a role to play in those workplaces that do not have a safety committee. The fact that the workplaces do not have it is often because they are too small, but there may also be other reasons for it. The Regional Safety Officers are there to stimulate and support workers' organisations in their work. The person responsible for the state inspection and for state councils is the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which is another role. We have also reinforced it. However, these two roles should not be confused. The Regional Safety Officers have to complement the work of the Safety Officers and trade union representatives on the Protection Committees in the workplace. Lars Beckman seems to be concerned that LO says to encourage and encourage trade union and politically committed people to conduct political reasoning with their colleagues in an election campaign. I think we would need a lot more of this. On the contrary, I am concerned that too little of the political debate is being brought face-to-face between people who are politically involved and that too much is happening, for example, through more or less anonymous accounts in social media or on the Internet. I would like to encourage more of the discussion on important political issues to face. I believe that this is an important basis for a well-functioning democracy. However, this issue has nothing to do with the issue of regional safety representatives. The Regional Safety Officers have a very important task. It is my view that they are doing a good job. I have full confidence that LO, TCO, Saco and even the Harbour Workers' Union are doing their job in the way they are supposed to do.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-77	Mr President, I would like to It is great that we agree that political parties should not have anonymous Twitter trolls, which we could say the Social Democrats were going to start the election movement with. It is also a hygiene factor. I, too, think we should have personal conversations in the election campaign. It's really important. I think that Aftonbladet puts their finger on an important question when they in a box of facts under the article that LO invests 30 million to help Löfven win the election says: Through much of the 20th century, the union's work in the workplace, where they urged everyone to vote for S,... was a major reason why the party was in government power – basically all along. ..................................................... I believe that we have, thankfully, left behind the society in which the Social Democrats were able to direct the debate on society. We didn't have the Internet. We didn't have free ether media. There was a confusion between the Social Democrats, the Party, LO, the State and the authorities. I think we need to streamline this. One of the last corporate issues left is perhaps the link in the state giving 83 million to an organisation that wants to influence the Swedish election outcome with conversations at workplaces. What resources does LO have? Yes, it is clear that you have ombudsmen, ombudsmen and so on, but it cannot be excluded that there can be party political elements in, for example, conferences on health and safety at work that you have with regional safety representatives. That is exactly why I have asked Ylva Johansson this question. How does the Government ensure this? Of course, this does not apply to the Government personally, but how does the Swedish Work Environment Authority ensure that the funds are not used improperly? How do we ensure that the Regional Safety Officer, regardless of which county, does not bring Social Democratic politicians to the workplace or arrange meetings or whatever it may be? I think this is a very serious issue. Today we are dealing with the Social Democrats. In another time, it may be another party whose values are not at all in line with Ylva Johansson. I think it should be more of a concern to the Government that it does not have better control over how this money is spent.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-83	Mr President, I would like to It's a little hard to follow Lars Beckman's reasoning, I have to say. He is what I understand very concerned that the Landsorganisation, LO, is giving resources to the Social Democracy. But this concern he tries to turn to something else by saying that he is concerned that there are regional safety representatives appointed by LO, TCO, Saco and the Swedish Seafarers' Association, which are partly financed by tax funds and partly financed directly by the trade unions. It's a little hard to follow what would really be the problem here. It seems that the main problem for Lars Beckman is that between the Landsorganisation and Social Democracy there is a collaboration that has deep roots and which has resulted in LO wanting to see a Social Democratic led government even after the next election. I am proud of the cooperation my party has with LO. It has long roots and has built this country strong. There is a great deal to gain from continued strong cooperation between my party and LO's organization. But of course it is based on that both party and organization always take a stand because they want such cooperation and see it as working well and giving good results. That has been the case so far. It could of course have been in a different way, but this was not the case at the last LO Congress or at the latest Social Democratic Congress. We are proud of this cooperation. This is one of the reasons why Sweden has a better representation from all social classes, including the working class, in both parliament and government. In many other countries you can see that politicians are very much taken from the same social class. This is not the case in Sweden, largely thanks to the good cooperation that my party has with LO. But back to the question, Mr President. The question is about the Regional Safety Officers. The Regional Safety Officers are funded by the state and the trade unions: LO, TCO, Saco and the Swedish Seafarers' Association. Their mission is to support the workers' side in the work environment, mainly at workplaces where there are no safety committees. My assessment is that this work is working well. I have full confidence that you do your job properly.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-87	Mr President, I would like to My simple question in the interpellation to the Government was: a) How does the Minister think that we can best ensure that monitoring and control is carried out by regional safety representatives, while they are paid by state funds, do not engage in party political work? I can see that I have not received an answer to the question. I can also say that Ylva Johansson is slipping on the answer. She does not see the problem of the confusion of roles. I think that's a concern. I believe that we have reason to come back to direct democracy, for example, and to think about whether that would not be a good way of ensuring the influence of members in some organisations. I can also note that some trade unions are now excluding people who are active in certain political parties. One might wonder what kind of work environment the person who is not even allowed to be part of the trade union can have. Do you have confidence to contact the union? Transport excludes certain members. It should, of course, concern a minister who protects the working environment if not everyone is allowed to join the union and if the union does not protect the working environment of all employees. I think it is a matter of confusion. I would also like to direct an appeal to those who pay this contribution to, for example, LO. It is your responsibility to review this activity. It is your responsibility to ensure that party political work does not occur. I believe, not least, that the media have an important role here. Around the country, local newsrooms can very well look at what conferences contain and whether there are elements of party political work or not. I think there is a good reason to come back to this issue.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-92	Mr President, I would like to This last post from Lars Beckman shows who is having trouble with the roles. Lars Beckman seems to advocate that, in direct violation of constitutionally protected freedom of organisation, it should go in and legislate on how trade unions themselves should govern their organisations, that the state should interfere with and legislate on, for example, how to have choices in free organisations and who should be allowed to be a member or not to be a member of an organisation. Talk about not being able to distinguish the roles! This is serious. Trade unions have their freedom of organisation, just like all other organisations. They have the right to choose for themselves how to organise themselves and who they want as members of their organisation. It's a constitutional right. I hope that Lars Beckman will have another speech in the debate. This is, in fact, a serious and very remarkable statement.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-93	Thank you! I give Mr Beckman 30 seconds to answer the question.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-94	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who should be concerned that the working environment is not protected for all members is, of course, responsible Minister.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-95	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson has asked me what measures I intend to take in relation to vehicles that disturb people in their environment with loud music and whether it is my assessment that the new penalty for harassment will facilitate the situation of municipalities and police in relation to disturbing music from vehicles. The Act aims to maintain public order and security in public places. The law authorises municipalities to regulate various phenomena in local regulations. A prerequisite for such a regulation is that it is necessary to maintain public order in public places. Disturbing other people by making noise can be a criminal offence. Disturbing someone through loud music can also, at least in more serious cases, be punishable as harassment. Since January this year, following a change in law initiated by the government, the unpeaceable clause has been more modern and clearer in its design, in which the props and props are listed in the motif text as precisely as there is interference with someone through e.g. loud noises. There has not been enough time to assess whether the amendment of the law is inadequate in relation to this particular problem. The most effective way to combat crime or to combat disorder is to try to prevent it from happening at all. The crime prevention work is central, and it should be conducted based on local problem images and in collaboration with other actors. The Government decided in March 2017 on Together against Crime – a national crime prevention programme. The aim of the programme is to increase knowledge and competence and get more actors, not only those who traditionally work crime prevention, to act actively and together.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-98	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Home Affairs and Justice, for the answer to my interpellation! The issue of disturbing music from vehicles may seem very insignificant and commonplace, not least in view of many other difficult problems that we have in the area of criminal policy. I am thinking of increased problems with gang crime, increased terrorist threats and, for example, increased problems with international theft leagues. But the task of politics is to tackle social problems no matter where they are and how large or small they are. This is a widespread social problem in many places in Sweden that the legal system has not yet managed to deal with and solve. What, then, is the problem picture in the area? These are about thirty municipalities in Sweden, such as Arvika, Torsby, Rättvik, Kil and Hagfors who have significant problems with a limited number of cars that often play extremely high music with the aim of disturbing people especially at night. So this is not about a truck culture in general. Of course, the fact that people travel around in the evenings and listen to music in their cars is not a big problem. It is a very small group that has done this systematically and works very consciously often to disturb people at night. So far, the justice system has not been able to deal with the problem. There are also examples of municipalities in Dalarna where you go and park a car in a special place often in connection with a residential area. Then you play extremely high music to disturb the residents in the area. The stereo is controlled by bluetooth or remote control. According to the police, the music in these cars is so extremely high that it causes serious hearing damage if you get close to the cars at all. There are also other examples that we have seen where people have to sleep with earmuffs at night or in the basement at night because there is such a huge noise in connection with the cars. There are, of course, no reasonable reasons why this situation should be allowed to continue year in and year out simply because the legal society lacks both the resources and the powers to deal with the problem. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister of Justice mentions the possibility for municipalities to issue local regulations. I would just like to add that this model has been tried and failed. I would like to give two examples of this. Firstly, both the Municipality of Arvika and the Municipality of Torsby have tried it and applied to the County Administrative Board to use local regulations to deal with the problem of high music from vehicles. They were rejected by the County Administrative Board. Local regulations may be used to maintain public order but not to protect the night sleep of people living around them. I might add that that decision was appealed by both Arvika and Torsby Municipality, but the Administrative Court finally gave the County Administrative Board of Värmland the right in both cases. Secondly, there is an example in Dalarna where the County Administrative Board gave Mora municipality the opportunity to issue local regulations to deal with the problem of high-playing music. The Mora police deployed considerable resources to tackle the problem, but no person has yet been prosecuted for the crime because the demands for evidence are relatively high. We have a very strange situation where two county boards have said two different things on the issue. What is common, however, is that none of the measures have been effective in tackling the problem. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice whether he shares the view that this is a serious problem in many places in Sweden and whether he also shares the view that the local regulations are not and have been effective in tackling the problem.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-108	Mr President, I would like to I certainly understand that this can be a rather big problem in some places. It should in no way be belittled. Of course, it is a big concern for those who suffer from not being able to sleep at night because people drive around and play music or even set up music facilities and have it at a very high sound level. It is important to ensure that there are legal spaces to which you can refer so that you can access those individuals who behave in this way. There are a number of legal spaces that can be used. In my reply, I referred to the law room on offending behaviour in the 16th chapter of the Criminal Code. 16 §. It is possible to access those individuals with that legislation. You also have another legal framework in the Traffic Regulation that aims to access unnecessary and disturbing driving. It is an offence that can impose fines of up to $1,000 on the person who engages in it. Then there is the law room on harassment, where we clarified it just now on 1 January and added, among other things, the wording in the motif text that in serious cases, for example, it is a matter of disturbing someone with loud noises. Now that legislation has just come into force. It's only a few months old. We will see how the courts will test it and how practices will develop. I do not want to anticipate that application. That's what the courts have to do. I note that there is a change in the legislation where, among other things, we have pointed out precisely to disturb someone with loud noises. In addition to all the legal bases that can be used, it is of course the case that, in addition to legislation, we need to have a system in which we have the opportunity to access these individuals, to investigate the crimes and to be able to link an offender to the crime itself. Pål Jonson is concerned with the rules of evidence and the difficulty of finding out, among other things, who is actually involved in this. The answer to that is that we need increased police presence in many places. There we work to increase the number of police officers in Sweden. It will bring all parts of the country to the l. Only now if a month goes out another 478 police aspirants from the training courses, some of which, I think it's a little over 40, will come Police Region Bergslagen in part where Värmland is part of it. It's only the first part and what's happening this spring. Then comes another litter in the fall. Next year, there will be 1 300 police officers from the trainings, so we'll scale up the police organization. The solution to this problem, which should not be minimized at all, may be the changes in legislation that we have made, but also, of course, increased police presence and priority. It must also be based on good cooperation between municipalities and police, where you work with what you call citizens' promises. There you identify locally: What are our problems right here? Then there will be a focus on how the police will work in the future.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-115	Mr President, I would like to I will return to the lack of police officers and the density of police in rural areas, which is a major problem. However, I would first like to refer a little to the Minister of Justice's reply on crime prevention, the nature of harassment legislation and how it has changed. The Minister of Justice says that crime prevention can be an important part of preventing the problem of high music from vehicles. That is certainly true, but one option is to turn off roads at night to restrict access. I can only say that it sometimes causes inconvenience to those living in these areas. It will simply be difficult to get home at night because the road may be off. The second thing we have seen when you have tried to turn off roads in my municipality of Arvika, for example, is that it tends to move around the problem in the municipality rather than solve it. There are therefore certain challenges in this area. As regards harassment, I would like to begin by saying that I welcome the change that took place in the legislation on 1 January 2018 with the aim of addressing the problems of loud noise interference. It's good, and it's reasonable. Of course, I do not want to pre-empt any court, but for at least three reasons I doubt that this will solve the problem that many municipalities have here and now when it comes to high-playing music from vehicles. First of all, in the event of harassment, there must be a purpose. I don't really understand how to identify a purpose when it comes to high-playing music from vehicles. I think it will be very difficult legally to prove an intention to disturb the environment. Secondly, if these persons are to be prosecuted for harassment, this cannot be done by issuing a fine on the spot. This also eliminates the immediate consequence of the criminal offence, which means that the legislation tends to lose its deterrent effect as the consequences are postponed for the future. Thirdly, this means setting up an investigation to be carried out by the police in order for a prosecutor to decide at a later stage on possible criminal cases. At an even later stage, a court will decide in perhaps six months' time on such matters. I think it will be a very long time span for this type of crime. So we will have a long and lengthy legal process if we are to use the harassment legislation. This also means that resources will be taken from the police and the Prosecutor's Office. We know that we now have a situation in which serious crime is growing, and not least the police authorities are hard hit. I would rather see the police focus resources on serious crime than on dealing with this problem. One option, which the Minister of Justice has been discussing, is to review the Traffic Regulation. I think that would be good. I know that the County Administrative Board of Värmland County and also the local police area of Arvika have requested this from the Ministry of Justice. It is therefore a question of reviewing the traffic regulation in order to tackle the problem. I do not expect the Minister of Justice here and now to start talking about changes to the Swedish Traffic Regulation. I am not a lawyer myself, but I think that reviewing the traffic regulation can be a way of dealing with this problem. It seems reasonable to me that it is difficult to drive a vehicle safely if there is extremely high music in the vehicle because attention simply has to suffer. It should be possible to review the traffic regulation so that people who drive vehicles with extremely high music can be fined because they lose their attention. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice a question. If it turns out that changes in harassment legislation will not be effective in this area, is he willing to take other measures?
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-126	Mr President, I would like to I guess we'll just have to take one thing at a time. We have just received new legislation on harassment. Of course, it would be good to first have it tried in court and see how practices develop. As I said in the explanatory statement, we have made it clear that it can be a harassment if you interfere with someone with loud noises. I think that this should be tested before any new changes are made. But, of course, if it is necessary, I am not a stranger to it, but we will have to take that part. At the same time, I point out that there are several other areas of law that can be used. Insanity - provoking behaviour could be applicable. This also applies, as Pål Jonson has said, to the whole traffic regulation with unnecessary and disturbing driving. I think it should get to a lot of these situations even in its present state, without us having to review it. But it is clear; you can never exclude anything for the future. I see that the police are primarily stepping up their efforts to apply the legal framework that we already have today. It is clear that it will be easier for them now that we are also deploying increased resources for the police. They're gonna get more people to work on this. When it comes to the development of investigating different types of crime, traffic offences are precisely a category that the police are investigating to a much greater extent than they did just a few years ago. We had a situation of seven years of falling results for the police, that is, the number of investigations reported to prosecutors decreased year by year. It was part of the explanation that we carried out the reorganisation of the police so that we now have a single joint police authority. Last year, the number of investigations reported by the police to prosecutors increased for the first time since 2009. So we see a positive development in that part. Investigations of traffic offences, among other things, are on the increase. I think that in some cases it is because this is a type of crime that the citizens want the police to engage in locally. Sometimes we tend to talk only about the grosser crimes and things that happen in the big cities, while forgetting that in many places it is another type of problem that citizens can be anxious to get things right. That is precisely why we have the arrangement with the citizens' promises, which will set up a focus for which crimes the police should engage in. Use the existing legislation, one of which is very fresh. Also make sure to use the new resources now available to the police. Then I think that this problem can also be settled.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-134	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice, for the debate. Let me begin by saying as usual: all politics is local. But I dare say that all crime is also local. It looks very different in different parts of the country, and the societal challenges and problems that exist in big cities are not necessarily the same as those in rural areas. And this is exactly a rural problem. Nor do I think that there is so much difference between the political parties on this issue, but rather that the issue has gone under radar in the light of many other serious problems that we have on the criminal policy programme. But this problem affects accurate people, not least those living in rural municipalities. Finally, I must say that any changes to, for example, the Traffic Regulation must be combined with more police officers. The problem of high-playing music in cars is above all a problem in rural municipalities, where police density is low. These are local police areas that are supposed to handle perhaps four municipalities with very large distances – at least 40 miles – with one or two radio cars at night. It is not easy to maintain law and order when we have such low police density in rural areas. We agree that more police are needed in the countryside. We can make any changes we want in laws, regulations and regulations, but unless there are police officers who can maintain law and order in rural areas, it will be a major problem in terms of getting to the bottom of the problem that I have tried to highlight in the interpellation.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-138	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Pål Jonson for the debate and, as I have said, to refer to the legal framework that exists: disorderly behaviour, unnecessary and disturbing driving with regard to the traffic regulation and the new offence of harassment. I see in front of me that we are looking at how the lawrooms can be applied, and we have, as I have said, a completely new wording in terms of harassment. Of course, I do not rule out the need to do more, but this is very fresh from 1 January. We agree that we need to increase police presence. I would like to say that we need to do it all over the country. We need to do it in the big cities, and we need to do it in the countryside. Now we are making the biggest effort on the police that any government has made in 20 years. We are going in with 2 billion already this year, 2.3 billion the following year and 2.8 billion in 2020. We're peeling up police training. I referred earlier to the fact that even now, in just a few months' time, another 40 police officers will be added to Region Bergslagen. They can thus Dalarna, Värmland and Örebro share. Then comes a new litter in the fall, and next year there will be another 1,300 police officers. It will be the biggest hill new police aspirants since 2010. We will increase the total number of police employees by 10,000 by 2024. That is exactly what we are now planning for. It's a massive increase. It's an increase in the suit by 30% by 2024. It will, of course, cost some money, but we think that this is one of the most important and priority areas to be addressed in the coming years. As I said, I have great sympathy for the fact that this may be a major problem, and I hope that it will be possible to get to grips with the increased resources and the new legal framework that exists.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-144	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked the Minister for Migration and the Deputy Minister for Justice whether the Law on Sea Drunkenness is optimal in its design or whether any changes need to be made and whether any positive effects of the Maritime Safety Act can be seen. Lars Beckman has also asked when and in what way an independent evaluation of the Litter Act will be made. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. With regard to the issue of the Sea Drunk Act, I would first like to remind you that it was the Alliance Government that implemented this legislation. You also need to ask yourself what Lars Beckman means by a team being optimal. If, for example, it is the preventive effect of the Act, reference can be made to statistics showing, among other things, that since 2010, there has been a decrease in the number of suspected drunk driving offences in relation to the number of checks carried out. In this respect, the law may be considered appropriate. The question of whether it is possible to see any positive effects of the law on maritime safety was discussed in an interpellation debate in March 2017. Questions about the effects of the law have also been raised in response to several parliamentary questions, including questions from Lars Beckman as late as December last year. The picture remains that, in combination with control measures, the legislation has a preventive effect on sea-filling. Since its entry into force in 2010, the number of deaths in recreational boat accidents, according to the Swedish Transport Agency's statistics, has decreased from 35 persons to 27 persons per year on a moving five-year average. The trend in the proportion of persons suspected of drunk driving has been clearly downwards. Both the Police Authority and the Coast Guard have noted a change of attitude towards alcohol among recreational boat owners, and the vast majority appear to respect the new legislation. As shown by Lars Beckman's last question, the Riksdag decided in November 2017 to announce an evaluation of the extended criminal liability for sea-filling that was introduced in 2010. Of course, it is important that reforms are followed up if necessary. Following the interpellation debate in March 2017, the Ministry of Justice established a memorandum on the effects of the new legislation. Following the announcement, the government will return to the Riksdag.
i-NLcqSSNnG78fryT7Kscvqn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Indeed, as the Government pointed out, it was the Alliance Government that introduced this law of sea DUI. Let me also state that it may not have been one of the best decisions taken by the Alliance Government, but that is why it is so important that this evaluation is carried out in the way that Parliament has decided. As an elected representative, it is, of course, impossible to be familiar with all the issues that exist. You can conduct conversations, you can order reports from Parliament's investigation service and so on. Last year, I and my colleague Maria Stockhaus arranged a seminar on the Sea Drunk Act where we had very good people on site who have extensive experience in maritime safety. It is clear that this law is not working as it was intended from the point of view of maritime safety. I am absolutely sure that the Government has also read the debate article that has been published, for example, in the Gothenburg-Post, written by Ulf Hallström, sea captain and former head of the Maritime Rescue and Rescue Unit at the Swedish Maritime Administration, Christer Lindvall, sea captain and former CEO of the Swedish Shipmasters' Association and Göran Andersson, sea captain and former maritime traffic director, former Chairman of the Swedish Maritime Safety Council and former Chairman of the Swedish Boat Union. They write:中 We, who have signed this article, together represent more than 150 years of maritime know-how. We propose that a review of the law be carried out and that Swedish legislation on these issues be harmonised with our neighbouring countries' regulations for recreational craft. ..................................................... Then they go through very well in the article why this legislation may not work optimally from the point of view of maritime safety. That is why it is important to have this review carried out. I could also note that the Swedish Boat Union and the Båtfolk wrote an open letter a few weeks ago to the Minister of Justice saying that they really think that this law should be reviewed. The argument is that it has no practical effect on serious accidents, that car traffic is not boating, that it criminalises boat owners without reason, that it reduces interest in recreational life and that it costs money to maintain and burden our courts unnecessarily. They argue more about these questions in the letter. It is surely important to note that in order for a law to be relevant, it is important that there is an anchoring and an understanding of the legislation. That is why this review, which has been decided by a united parliament, must be carried out. It is also important when it is done that it is an objective and impartial review that can genuinely arouse respect in all camps and that it takes into account the effects of the law. They should, of course, be that maritime safety is strengthened, not that a number of bladder checks are carried out, because that cannot be the aim. The desired effect must be to improve maritime safety in Sweden. My question is simply: when will the evaluation be added?
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-158	Mr President, I would like to One never ceases to be surprised at the moderates' ability to swing just any way. You cannot stand up for almost anything, but are courted by any interest group you fall away almost immediately when you do not have government power. It's back and forth. It was Beatrice Ask who tabled the proposal. It was the alliance government that carried this out in 2010. Then you lost the 2014 elections and suddenly you are no longer able to stand up for your own legislation. I think it is fundamentally rather weak for a political party, especially given that you actually have quite good arguments to stand up for your own legislation. The argument from Beckman is very sweeping. He has no evidence of what he says and no statistics to refer to, but only some sweeping arguments such as that it does not work, that it is not optimal and that it does not help to increase maritime safety. He has no evidence but just expresses a little general opinion. The main question here is whether it is a human right to be drunk at sea or not. If you land in that it's not a human right to be drunk at sea – you have responsibility for your own life, and you also have responsibility for the lives of others to a large extent when you're in front of a boat – that's a reason for legislation and also a reason for controls. Then Beckman asks: Has this really had any effect? In my interpellation response, I report a couple of developments that should be linked to the change in legislation. First of all, according to the Coast Guard statistics, there has been a reduction in the number of suspected sea traffic offences in relation to the number of inspections. In 2009, just over 500 checks were carried out. 17 percent of those checks suspected crime. In 2015, just over 2,000 checks were carried out. 3.52% of them had a suspicion of crime. The proportion decreased from 17% to 3% in the case of suspected offences in relation to the number of controls. This indicates that we have a fairly high and increasing level of compliance. Can't Lars Beckman still take in what the statistics actually look like? Another point is the number of deaths on the lake. A few years ago, before the legislation, there were an average of 35 deaths on the lake as a result of various accidents. Today it's 27. It's a moving average of five years. From 35 to 27 is a 20% reduction. It does not have to do with this legislation, but we know that the link between alcohol and drowning accidents and other accidents on the lake is quite strong. In fact, it may be because of the law. The legislation that you pushed through, Beckman, has proved to be successful, so you should be happy and able to stand up for it. But you don't. My specific questions to Lars Beckman are as follows: Are the Moderates for or against the Sea Drunk Act? Have you changed your mind on the subject? My follow-up question is: Will an alliance government tear up the law of sea-filling or not? I would like answers to those questions, Mr President.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-167	Mr President, I would like to As before, the minister raises the tone when he has no good answers to give. First, let us note that the number of deaths in recreational craft has fallen sharply in Sweden since 1971. I can, of course, e-mail the report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, if the Government does not have access to it. This debate is, of course, about sea-filling and safety at sea. What, then, is the social challenge in Sweden right now when it comes to boating? In my opinion, there is a lot of theft of boats and engines. Foreign leagues roam freely in Sweden and steal boat engines. What will society's resources do? For me, it is important that we fight serious crime. There, the Government could ask its authorities to fight crime. In the same RUT report, which the Government obviously does not have access to, but I will make sure that e-mails across it, we can look at the promille borders in our neighbouring countries. Finland has 1.0, Denmark has 0.5 for recreational boats up to 15 metres and Estonia has 0.5, according to the Parliamentary Investigation Service. When those who know maritime safety say that a law has not had the effect it would have, I do not think it is a problem to review the law. It has been decided by a united parliament. Let us look at whether the law has had an effect. I do not mean the number of bladder checks, but I mean, of course, from the point of view of maritime safety. Here it is a bit wobbly when, on the one hand, the Government starts to ask the Moderates questions about what our view of the Sea Drunk Act is when the Social Democrats, on the other hand, have supported the review in the Swedish Parliament. From the Government's argumentation, it seems that it has decided in advance what the review will achieve. It would be unfortunate and almost a mockery of Sweden's 700 000 boat owners affected by the legislation. One problem is that cars and boating are often mixed together. Let me say that I am well aware of this – it is unfortunate – that there are not 12-year-olds in line for 110 kilometres an hour on the E4 because it is not allowed. You're supposed to make a difference between boats and cars. My question remains: when will the independent evaluation of legislation take place, as a united parliament, including the Social Democrats, supports? It was also an election promise from Anders Ygeman 2014 that he spoke in the media and in other contexts.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-173	Mr President, I would like to Let us be careful with the words. The announcement concerns an evaluation, and of course we intend to add it. This is something other than a review. But we intend to make an evaluation – of course, in accordance with the announcement that exists. In fact, I did not get an answer to the substantive questions. Where have the Moderates actually landed? Are you in favour of or against the legislation on sea-filling? Do you want to tear up the law or not? Beckman talks about harmonizing with other Nordic countries. Is that the attitude of the Moderates? Is it just on the lake? If we are to harmonise drinking legislation on the lake with other Nordic countries that have a completely different view on the issues, why should we not harmonise drinking legislation on land? Beckman refers to Finland with a limit of 1 per mille. Does Lars Beckman know how drunk you are at 1 per mille? Is that what he wants on the lake? Why, then, is he arguing to harmonise with other countries? What exactly is he after? My question remains: Are the Moderates going to tear up the law of sea-filling or not? Is an alliance government going to tear up the DUI or not? I would like an answer to that. When Lars Beckman can't argue on the matter, he starts talking about completely different things. Of course we have to get to the thefts of the boat engines. I have just given a mission to the Coast Guard, Customs and the police to strengthen their cooperation just against the international theft leagues. It is about both strengthening the legislation itself and preventing the export of stolen goods, including boat engines that go to other countries. Then we will ensure that those we take in the foreign theft leagues who are convicted of crimes in Sweden will serve the sentences in the home countries. There we go forward with enhanced cooperation with a number of countries. With regard to this type of crime, we are talking about countries in our neighbourhood, such as Poland and Lithuania. But we know that there are problems with other crime, such as Romania and Georgia. We take the countries one by one and deepen our police cooperation and serving the sentences in the home countries. You can't put these things against each other. The government has been active in foreign theft leagues. Beckman avoids the question of what evidence exists that the legislation is not working. I say that the fact that the proportion of controls carried out where crime is suspected has decreased since 2010 indicates that there is increased compliance and that the legislation has thus functioned properly. In addition, fewer and fewer people die on the lake. Well, that's a good development, isn't it? How would Lars Beckman act if he tore up the legislation and then suddenly the number of dead on the lake would increase again? What would he do? No, Mr President, sometimes one actually has to stand up for the legislation one has been involved in pushing through, as the Moderates have done. You cannot just swing back and forth, just because there is some interest group that wants things in terms of legislation.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-180	Mr President, I would like to It's a lot of emotion and little facts from the government, but it may be. Let us then – again – note that according to the parliamentary investigation service, the number of deaths in recreational boating from 1971 onwards has fallen sharply. If the government doesn't have that report, I'll have it sent out. I am absolutely sure that anyone who has been head of the Maritime Rescue and Rescue Unit at the Swedish Maritime Administration, who has been CEO of the Swedish Shipmasters' Association and who has been chairman of the Swedish Maritime Safety Council, has no interest whatsoever in reducing maritime safety in Sweden. I and the Government should agree on that. If you have had such heavy and important tasks, you obviously do not want to impair maritime safety in Sweden. I'm totally prestigeless. If it is the case that legislation has been put in place that has not had the intended effects, then it should of course be free to amend the law. It is the legislator's and the government's ability to do so. It is not respectful to call boat owners and organisations associations and argue that it is most important to stand up to them. The important thing is, of course, to have legislation that protects maritime safety. There should be legislation that harmonizes with some general legal awareness for those at sea. Exactly what a new alliance government will do, I understand that Morgan Johansson is curious about. Of course, he will receive answers like everyone else. All we know is that this government will have fallen because we in Parliament will vote against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. But when will this evaluation take place, and when will it come?
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-186	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to set up an evaluation. It is clear that we will do so and follow the announcement that exists. But Beckman can't get away with the main issue here. He now refers to the fact that we should harmonise with other countries. Then it is clear that I am curious – and not only I, but I think the voters are also curious. Are you going to tear up the legislation, Lars Beckman? Are you going to have a Finnish order of 1 per mille? Again, does Lars Beckman know how drunk you are at 1 per mille? Is that what we have to expect with a bourgeois government? I think I'm not the only one curious about that. In fact, I think the voters are also curious about where you are going to land. Then Beckman accuses me of not using the facts. I have not heard any facts from Lars Beckman in his speech – not anything. I do not think he has mentioned a number or any statistics. He says that the number of deaths has decreased from 1970 onwards. Yes, but it is also a sharp drop from 2009 onwards, and that is what I am referring to. It is after you changed the legislation. Then there is increased compliance. A number of checks are carried out, and it turns out that a reduction in the proportion of checks carried out shows suspected offences. This indicates that people are actually complying satisfactorily with legislation, and that is exactly what we want with legislation. Yes, we will set up the evaluation. However, I and probably the rest of the voters, who may also be concerned about maritime safety, are interested in knowing whether you are going to tear up the legislation that you yourself pushed through. Are you going to go forward with 1 per mille when it comes to drunkenness on the lake? My view is that it cannot be a human right to be drunk at sea.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-193	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me if I am satisfied with the quality of police training and how we monitor the operation. He has also asked what measures I intend to take so that we do not have 500 to 600 empty seats in police training every year. In addition, he has asked what it is because so many students choose to drop out of police training after they have been adopted and what conclusions I and the government draw from this. Me and the government are proud of the Swedish police. The police at the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency demonstrate a high level of competence in carrying out their complex tasks on a daily basis. They have all completed the same basic training as a policeman, and the Swedish police's high standard depends largely on the selection and content of the Swedish police training. The Government naturally monitors the activities of the ordinary government administration in an ongoing dialogue. The opposition often points out that there are empty places in police training but then forgets that the government has increased its ambitions and increased the number of seats. During the term of office, the number of police students has doubled. Next year, 2019, there are estimated to be 1 300 police students, which is the highest number since 2010. The ambition is, of course, that there should not be empty places in the training because it is important to train even more police officers. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police officers by 10,000 to 2024. In order to give the Police Authority financial opportunities to fill the places in police training, the biggest financial investment is now being made on the police in 20 years. The Police Authority is also working, on behalf of the Government and in cooperation with Totalförsvarets recruitment authority, to streamline and modernise the admission process to police training. This work must be reported to the Government by 23 May this year. In addition, the Swedish Police Authority has been commissioned by the government to launch a recruitment campaign, which hopefully will increase the number of suitable candidates for the training. The staff is the most important resource for the Police Authority, and in order to increase attractiveness, the Government has commissioned the Police Authority to improve the working environment and to create more development and career paths. There is also a joint effort with the Police Federation to upgrade the police profession. Finally, Roger Haddad has asked what conclusions I and the government are drawing, and it is easy to answer. The police profession should be attractive. There are currently a record number of applicants for police training, and the vast majority of those who have started the training also complete it. One conclusion is that the previous government had far too low ambitions and trained too few police officers.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-199	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson for the answer to my first interpellation of two. I have asked a question about the number of police officers in the country, but this question specifically concerns the problem of being able not only to recruit and adopt, but also to retain those police students who have actually been offered a place at some of the three universities in the country who conduct police training. Why is it important for the Liberals to come back to this issue? Well, we have a situation in which the Crime Prevention Council points to increased insecurity around the country, not least among women. There was a study yesterday, also from the Crime Prevention Council, highlighting the worrying situation in vulnerable areas, at least in terms of insecurity and shootings. Then there are other positive elements where developments are moving in the right direction. In the same measurements, we have also seen confidence in the judiciary – that is, prosecutors, courts and police – generally negative developments. I think that this is a concern for a democracy in which law and order and justice should be the guarantor of our security and security. We also have more vulnerable areas, i.e. areas where criminals gain more power and where elements of criminal activity increase people's insecurity. We have to take that to heart. The effect of our failure to recruit, retain and extract police officers is that the criminals benefit from this development and that the caretakers, those to be protected, suffer extra. It is their freedom that is ultimately affected and curtailed. The police profession is one of the most important professions; I and the Minister can agree on that. I share the view that they are making great efforts, the police that exist. But what we are focusing and trying to point to in this interpellation is that a range of places mainly exist. The number of seats has also been increased. Despite this and regardless of whether the number of seats has been 350, 500, 800 or continues to increase, there are far too many empty spaces. That is what I think we should focus the debate on. How can we – without lowering the requirements – not only bring in more, but also ensure that you complete and complete your education? The background, Mr President, to the Liberals' submission of this interpellation was that a few weeks ago we were able to take part in material from the university in Umeå, where half of the places are empty one month after the start of the semester – half of the places at the police training in Umeå. We asked Linnaeus University in Växjö. There, one third of the seats were empty – 90 empty seats at the police training in Växjö. I think this is serious, and it shows once again that the main problem is not that there are no places. How can quality be improved? How can you develop the admission system to better match the places that are empty with the after all thousands of applicants for this education? The fact that there are as many as 8 000 – 10 000 applicants for police training mainly shows that police education is actually an attractive education in Sweden, Mr President, and we should be proud of that.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-209	Mr President, I would like to One of the things we have done during this parliamentary term is that we have scaled up education. We are now training twice as many police officers as the bourgeois government did. You cut the police training rate. Let's switch it up. I never cease to be surprised when I look at what it looked like during your period in terms of education. In your first period, 2006-2010, you actually made a move and increased the police training rate quite considerably. You were up to over 1,700 a single year, 2008. But it was only because you wanted to get up in just over 20,000 police officers, and you did in 2010. But what then happened was you cut the police training rate dramatically. You fell from 1,700 in 2008 to 140 in 2010. So in two years, you cut the police training rate by 90%. Then you increased it slightly again to 600 - 700 in the coming years. It's far too low a pace of education. If you want the police force to grow, you have to grow up a lot higher. Every year 400 to 500 police officers retire, and only those places have to be covered. Then you can't lie for 140 a single year, like you did at its lowest. We are now peeling up, from 600 to 700 police officers per year, as you trained, to 1,300 police officers, who will be out next year. It's actually the biggest hill since 2010. We are doing this because we want to build up in order to increase the number of police workers by 10 000 to 2024. We are long-term in this planning. We do not get carried away in this way: huge numbers one year and then pull down another. We're building up long-term. We are at 1 300 now, and I think we need to reach at least 2 000 in order to reach the 2024 target. Over 90 percent of those admitted also complete their education. That's a pretty high percentage. If you don't show yourself as a police officer during the training period, it's clear that you shouldn't complete it. But more than 90 percent complete. In just a few months, 478 new police officers will go out as trainees in business. It is also a very good addition. We have had some bottlenecks that we have had to deal with. After all, you abolished military service, and when you did, you also cut down heavily on the Total Defence Recruitment Authority, which conducts all tests for the police. So we have not only had to scale up police training, but also the old Pliktverket, which today is called Totalförsvarets recruitment agency. It has been a concern that they have not had sufficient capacity to test all qualified persons. Now we are increasing sharply there too. On 1 January 2017, the Recruiting Authority had 89 employees. On 1 April, 158 employees will be employed, and up to 170 will be employed. We thus double the number of employees at Totalförsvarets recruitment agency and hire more psychologists, among other things, so that the tests can be done. As of this spring, the recruitment authority of the Swedish Defence Service will be able to test all qualified personnel. It also means that we will probably have more people to cover the places that exist. This is basically fantastically good. I have great hope that, if we continue in this way, we will be able to reach a few thousand a year in order to scale up the Police Authority according to the objective we have: 10 000 more employees by 2024.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-218	Mr President, I would like to I'd rather tell you what you've done under your government. It's totally uninteresting what we did ten or twelve years ago. I do not think that the public who live in the vulnerable areas and feel insecure is thinking so much about what the former or former government did. They want to know what you, Morgan Johansson, and the government are doing to get us more cops. It was only last year that the government woke up and began to make decisions about developing the admission process. They promised even more police colleges and even more places. I insist on the Liberal side that the demands are reduced and that steps are put forward so that even more people can get in. What kind of police does the government really want? I have, of course, looked at our figures. I've been working on these issues for a few years. We in the Alliance were able, throughout the time we sat, to get out more police officers than you reported, among other things, in 2015 and 2016. But I do not think that is what the voters and the public are asking for. They want to know how it is that we have 1 000 fewer police officers in external service in Sweden. The essence of this interpellation, Mr President, is that this spring we have 250 empty seats in police training. Looking at how it was last year, you can see that, if things were to go equally badly, we could once again reach 500 to 600 empty seats. As far as the recruitment authority for the Total Defence is concerned, I and the Liberals raised this already a year ago. We have asked interpellations and written questions. We even had in our own budget an investment in the old Pliktverket, or Recruiting Authority as it is today, in order to be able to test more police officers. The financial effort was not included in the Government's proposal. Only yesterday, Mr President, when the Secretary of State was on the Committee of Justice, was it announced that additional resources should now be available to try out more. But it turned out that the Police Authority was tasked with taking funds from its own budget and giving them to the Swedish Armed Forces in order for the Recruitment Authority to be able to test more. This was said by the Secretary of State of the Minister for Home Affairs yesterday in the Committee on Justice. The difference in the Liberals' alternative budget is that we have our own investment in police training and the examination of police students. Another question, to which I have not been given an answer, is: How is it that so many students drop out? When we followed up on this issue in mid-January and in February, there were 21 students who dropped out only at the university in Växjö. I wonder what the government's conclusions are and whether this has been followed up at all. That's serious. In Umeå there are 100 students left out of 225. I don't want to know how many places you have maxed out or how many more places you have as ambition in 2019 or 2020. I want to know why we have 259 empty seats and why, in addition to the fact that it is already difficult to fill the seats, there is a big drop-off. That is what is at the heart of this debate, Mr President.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-226	Mr President, I would like to Over 90 percent of those who begin police training complete it, as I said. Of course, not all those who are admitted then show up for police training. This is due, among other things, to the fact that you get the message rather late, perhaps just a few weeks in advance, and that it can be difficult to solve all the practical things in order to start the education. This problem with the admission process has been around for quite a long time, and we have to work on trying to solve that. The fundamental problem, however, has not really been this, but the recruitment authority of the Total Defence. Again, you abolished military service and severely reduced the recruitment authority of the Total Defence. As late as last autumn, we had difficulty calling all qualified to tests. When you cut down the way you did it's not done in a flash to scale up. We need psychologists, and they're not very easy to recruit. They can't just be picked up from the shelf, so to speak. We also need more people in other categories of staff to be able to do this. We need to rebuild the business. In other words, we have not only had to increase the number of police training places, but we have also had to increase the recruitment authority of the Total Defence Agency considerably. This is not something we started yesterday, although my Secretary of State Charlotte Svensson was on the committee and told us about it at the time. On the contrary – as I stated in my first speech, we have already, in recent years, greatly expanded the Total Defence Recruitment Authority. We will see a doubling of the number of employees: from 80 to 90, as it was a year and a half ago, to 170, as it will be this year. As of this spring, we will also be able to test all qualified persons, and that means, in my view, that more people will be able to start training. Then we do two more things. We will start training courses in more locations. We start in Malmö in 2019 and in West Sweden a little later; the place is not determined yet. Then you also broaden the recruitment documentation. I am convinced that more people from Skåne and West Sweden will then apply to these places. With these efforts, I think we can scale things up further. One thing that has already been done is that from 2018 for the first time they also pay travel and accommodation for the students who do the tests at Totalförsvarets recruitment agency. This has been done in the past for those who are tested for the Swedish Armed Forces but not for those who are tested for the police. That's what you do from now on. There are many such large and small things that need to be done to expand. Then Roger Haddad does not want to talk about what has been, and I understand that very well. What was during your period was a tremendous twitch in terms of the number of police training places. It was also an overall far too low dimensioning. We're still suffering from that. It takes two and a half years to train a cop. It is first with the large hills that are now going out – especially from next year, but already in a month's time, almost 500 police officers – that we are beginning to see the results of the efforts we made at that time.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-235	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely not. I'm proud of our justice policy and police policy. When we were in the majority, the number of policemen increased. After three and a half years of your reign, Morgan Johansson, we have 1 000 fewer police officers in Sweden, and that has nothing to do with the education system, but it is because 1 000 police officers leave the agency every year, and 500 of them do not go because of retirement. This has nothing to do with the fact that we trained too few. Even when we had fewer training places, there was a small percentage of empty seats. But this does not matter when you promise even more places and even more police colleges. There will be reduced admission requirements, move of elements into the admission process and so on. The people I am talking about, who have dropped out, have, of course, been adopted by the Recruiting Authority. They have been accepted and started an education at a higher education institution, but they drop out after a month. It's dramatic. I can't believe you lose 21 students after a month in Växjö alone! One third of the places at the university in Växjö are empty and 50 percent of the places in the police education in Umeå. I realise that the problem is not the training places. What exacerbates and reinforces the problem in society is that too many people leave the police profession because of wages and work environment. This is about education policy. Only during our first term of office in 2006 – 2010 did we train 3 000 more police officers. The election years 2010 and 2014 we had over 20,000 police officers in Sweden. Now we have 19 700, of which 244 are aspirants. No, I'm absolutely not afraid to tell you what we did and didn't do. We did a lot more than this government.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-239	Mr President, I would like to Yet it is de facto that we are training twice as many as the Alliance did. As a matter of fact, Roger Haddad. Roger Haddad comes back to the issue of reduced requirements. He dares not give an example, and I understand that, because there has been a discussion of what is really true and false. On the Internet, for example, it spins around information that you should no longer have to have a driving licence to become a police officer. It is a boast, a completely false task. In fact, what has been said is that those who apply for training do not need to have a driving licence to apply, but in that case they must ensure that they obtain a driving licence before they start training. They've got almost a year to do it. That is the change that has been made. Yet, there are allegations online that police officers should not be able to drive any longer. It's completely wrong. Liberals do not always help to correct such a false image. On the contrary, it is a good idea to continue to spread the picture that the requirements would have been significantly reduced. As I said, it is completely wrong, and so it is a good thing that we have the opportunity to correct it. For us, it is now a matter of continuing to think long-term. We cannot have the twitchiness of one year training 1,700 and a couple of years later 140– then you cut it down by 90%, as you did. Nor can we have a far too low educational rate of 600 to 700 police officers per year. We must get up from the levels we are at today, 1 300, to perhaps 2 000. I'm sure we can. As we broaden recruitment, grab the bottleneck in relation to the Total Defence Recruitment Authority and make sure to increase the attractiveness of the police profession further by investing in better working conditions, where, of course, the pay issue is also part of it, I am sure we will achieve the target we have for 2024. But, as I said, it requires a long-term perspective.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-245	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me what measures the government intends to take to increase the number of police officers in external service. He has also asked how more civilian investigators will be a substitute for the police officers who have left. In addition, he has asked what concrete measures the government has taken to attract more police officers who have stopped and keep those who are about to leave the police profession. The interpellation claims that Sweden today has the lowest police density in ten years. Then I must help Roger Haddad to remember that the reason for this lies in a combination of an ever-increasing population and the low rate of training of police officers allowed by the previous government. Liberals had every opportunity during their time in the former government to eliminate the current shortage of police workers, including police officers in external service. The development of crime and the activities of the Political Authority place increased demands on many different competences. However, fragmented professional roles between civil servants and police officers are part of the history book. Modern police operations consist of powerful teams with many different competences. The Authority's attractiveness is central to maintaining existing staff and recruiting the right skills. There is long-term work going on with the employees' organisations to enhance the status of employment at the Police Authority. This work includes improving the protection of employees and the working environment. The Government has also commissioned the Police Authority to create more development and career paths. The government has stated that far more police employees are needed for Sweden to be safe and secure. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to do this, the government has decided and announced the biggest financial investment on the police in 20 years. However, it is the Police Authority that decides how the funds allocated by the government should be used, including how the division between different professions should be. On 1 March, the Police Authority submitted information to the Government on how to reach the target of 10,000 more police employees by 2024. The evidence concludes that training and increasing the number of police officers takes a long time. To achieve this goal, this means that there is already a need to strengthen the operations by employing more civil employees with specialist expertise in, among other things, investigation activities. This will allow the release of police expertise in favour of intervention and crime prevention.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-251	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs for his reply also to this interpellation, which focuses in particular on the government's statement that it wants to replace trained police officers, who have spent two and a half years at the Police College, with civilian employees. The background to the interpellation is that Sweden now has 1 000 fewer police officers and that we have fewer and fewer police officers in external service. The police, as a public authority and as a business, have moved further and further away from the citizens. This is not something that I and the Liberals have made up, but I hear this every week when I'm out meeting police chiefs around the country. I've been looking at the numbers from the police department that were presented. In comparison with 1 January 2015, when the whole police organisation was redeployed, all police regions in the country – with the exception of the Police Region väst, where it has become a small accessory of police officers, and the Police Region n word, where no difference can be seen up or down – have fewer police officers in their accounting. It is a failure of society and politics. It is a failure that we have fewer police officers in Sweden while more and more people in our society are experiencing insecurity and anxiety. I have also asked questions about how to get more police officers on the outside. Why, then, is this important? It's not just about intervening or going out on emergency phone calls, it's also about being seen and working crime prevention. It's a question that I'm very committed to. In the long term, if it is important to tackle juvenile delinquency and increase security, it is to prioritise crime prevention. It's about being seen out in the city, visiting schools, recreation centres and retirement homes, but also meeting municipalities and working with them to prevent crime. Unfortunately, crime prevention and external service activities have suffered a great deal of damage from the police pace we have seen. It doesn't matter if I visit Kungsör in Västmanland County or Dalarna or Varberg in Halland. All police officers and police chiefs confirm that you do not have time for the crime prevention work. It's something you'd like to work with, but you can't handle the important mission. We have also seen, Mr President, with regard to various types of evidence from the Police Authority that it is still the case that more and more people are seeking access to the agency and up into the organisation – they want to work at regional or national level. In conclusion, speaking of the government's response, I would say that we now have the lowest police density in ten years. I've checked that task with the Police Department. I have also read articles in Svenska Dagbladet and most recently in Dagens Nyheter, during the month of February, where it is concluded: that Sweden today has the lowest police density in ten years. That is something that I find troubling. I definitely think that should also concern the Minister for the Interior.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-260	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad will be happy to develop this with the 1,000 police officers who would have been lost during this period. The target was 20,000 cops. You just reached that point. Right now we have about 19,700. How it's gonna be 1,000, Roger Haddad will be happy to tell you. But he will have to revise his statement in a month's time. Then 478 new police officers will go to work – 478. Then there is another whole bunch of new police officers already this autumn, who were then trained. And next year there'll be 1,300 new cops. Then we begin, so to speak, the escalation that we are talking about. We have doubled the rate of police training, as Roger Haddad well knows, compared to your time. You only trained half as many as we are now training. No, civilians aren't supposed to replace cops. Our view is that we need to scale both up. Our view is that both categories of staff are needed in the Police Authority. However, when Roger Haddad ruled, or his government ruled, it was just the opposite. Then it was police officers, Mr President, who had to replace civilians. The old government used a system of civil servants as accordions. When you ran out of money, you got rid of a lot of civilian workers. Instead, you put police officers in charge of civilian duties. Then police had to do administrative work. Then the police had to sit at the reception. Then the police had to sit as arrest guards. As a result, the results for the police fell seven years in a row. Seven years in a row, the efficiency of the police fell. That is one of the reasons why we did the reorganisation. For the first time, from last year on, police efficiency is now increasing. Now they report more cases to prosecutors than they have done in the past. We are not going to repeat the mistake you made: to put police officers to do civilian tasks. That is when efficiency falls. Then there will be even greater problems in terms of prevention or intervention or external service. The mistake that you made, cutting down heavily on civilians and putting police officers on civilian tasks, we are not going to do it again – quite the opposite. We intend to expand our operations and scale up both the number of civilians and the number of police officers. For us to make it, we need to make sure that we can keep the police that we have. Then let me say: We have had about 400 to 500 police officers who retire each year and in addition perhaps about 400 who end prematurely for other tasks. We need to keep cops. Then let me say that the number of people who end prematurely has decreased recently. We had a peak in 2016. It decreased in 2017, and so far in 2018 it looks pretty good in that part. We need to re-recruit police officers, and we need to train more. You severely reduced the number of training places. In two years, you decreased your training places by 90 per cent. You trained far too few – 600 – 700 a year – when we need to keep up the pace. We're expanding. As I said, 1 300 are due to expire next year. It takes a long-term perspective, Mr President, to scale this up. That's why we requested a file from the police department. What's it gonna take to get us up to 10,000 more police employees? We got a very good answer from the police department. It is possible to do this. But that also means, of course, that you are prepared to put money and resources into the business. It's a deal of maybe 12 billion more to the police department. It is a 50% scale-up over these years. We will do what we can to ensure that the police are given priority in the future.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-268	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to remind the government that it was we who decided to reorganize the police, not you. I was on the Board of the National Police between 2011 and 2015 and have followed the entire procedure, from initiatives, committee processing and decisions in the Riksdag to the Executive of the Implementation Committee. The decisions were taken in 2013 and 2014 and entered into force on 1 January 2015. It was the Alliance and the Liberals who made those decisions. However, we note in retrospect that certain parts have not been properly implemented and implemented. That is why we in the Liberals have said that we are prepared to tear up parts of this reorganisation. There was more bureaucracy. I had a debate with the Government here in December, where I pointed out a number of bureaucratic problems. But the answer from the Social Democrats was: No, there is not a problem with over-bureaucratisation. But I get figures every month that constantly confirm that more and more policemen are waltzing into and out of this gigantic authority. It is about those who live not only in the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas, Mr President, but throughout the country – in Kungsbacka, in Lycksele. They want to see more cops. The problem is, they've had fewer cops. This is the result of your policy. I've been on the Justice Committee, preparing police matters. There were no proposals in 2015 in the spring amending budget or 2016 in the budget or in December 2016, when we made the decision for 2017. It was only 2017 that the government started talking about this: Wow, now we have to increase the number of seats. Oops! Now we have to ask the police to develop new career opportunities. Perhaps we should also invest more money in the police, because this does not hold. But then you were in the third year of your term of office. That's the problem. In parallel, we have police defection, poor working environment and fewer in external service, not least. Yes, the number of police employees is increasing. No matter how the Government chooses to present a police initiative or a civilian investment, we in the Liberals are putting more than you in our option – regardless of the category. We want to bet on more civilians. But we also want to bet on more cops. We spend twice as much money on the police as you do. The problem I am now raising is not a budget debate. But do not say that we did not give priority or that we did not take any action! I also hear, Mr President, that the Government is now saying that civilians should not replace police officers. But both I and the chairman of the Police Federation reacted in the media. The police union went out the same day criticizing the government statement: No, we need administrative staff, and we need civilians, but they should not replace trained police officers. In fact, that is how the Government was quoted, including in Dagens Nyheter – during a transitional period, in the situation in which the Police Authority finds itself, civilians will replace police officers. That's what the News of Today says. I do not share the government's position. I do not share your policy. It's because of you that we have fewer police officers. With regard to the assertion that we have the lowest police density in ten years, I wonder: Does the government really mean that it is just a statement? Is it wrong that a few years ago, when we were in the majority, there were 216 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants and that it is now down to 195 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants? It is the lowest number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants in ten years. These, Mr President, are facts.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-277	Mr President, I would like to Then, in his last speech, Roger Haddad will be able to account for the 1,000 fewer police officers he claims it has been during this term of office. Where does that number come from? Right now, as I said, there were about 19,700 police officers. Only in one month's time will there be another 478. Roger Haddad can't get those 1 000 fewer together, so I'd like to know where the number comes from. No. Civil servants are not supposed to replace police officers. But the mistake you made during your period was that you allowed police officers to replace civilian employees. You used civil servants as accordion. You reduced the number of civilian employees, and you put the police to do civilian duties. In this way, Mr President, there was a reduction in the effectiveness of the fight against crime. That mistake you made, we'll never make again. Nor will we ever repeat the mistake that you also made with the twitching of the number of training places. So you reduced the police training rate by 90% in two years between 2008 and 2010, so then we inherited a training rate that is only half as high as what we really need. Now we're both peeling up like the police organization overall. With what the police authorities have reported to us, I would think that by 2024 we will end up on about 6,500 trained police officers and around 3,500 civilian employees of the 10,000. I think that balance is quite reasonable, and that is what the police authorities have said. It's not free, this. It is estimated that we need to increase police costs by up to 12 billion to 2024. We will, of course, examine those figures; this is the assessment that the Police Authority makes. But you should know that it is in this situation that it ends up, in which case an increase in the expenditure of the Political Authority by 50 percent. Is 12 billion a lot or a little money? I see you on the alliance side. Instead of going to elections on major investments in welfare, where the police are part of it, you go instead to elections on major tax cuts. Only that sixth job tax deduction that you're going to carry out with the Moderates costs SEK 22 billion. I say, then, that it is better for us to put the common resources on prioritising welfare, law enforcement and the police instead of these major tax cuts. But it is, of course, a choice that the voters are allowed to make. Then Roger Haddad claims he spends twice as much on the police as we do. Next year, the police cost about 25 billion. However, you do not spend 50 billion on the police, so Roger Haddad will be happy to explain in his speech what he really means. Finally, Mr President, it is fascinating to hear Roger Haddad talking about the reorganisation. Just a few years ago, my predecessor and I got a yell at Anders Ygeman about how the misorganisation was in every interpellation debate here. Now that Roger Haddad sees that this reorganisation and the effectiveness of the police in terms of the number of investigations reported to the prosecutor may have a little effect, he is turning on a five-earer for the first time in seven years. Now it's suddenly you who have carried out the reorganisation, and then Roger Haddad tries to score a point on it. That's not how it works. The reorganisation was something that was prepared by a parliamentary committee where there was much, very much support across the block line, and we have done it together. I think we should be proud of the work we have done.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-288	Mr President, I would like to We criticised your policies and your three-year savings. We criticised the fact that you failed in the appointment of the chief police officer and that the police in turn failed to implement Parliament's decisions, which state that we should have more district police and local police officers as well as more police officers in external service. On all those points, this order from the Swedish Parliament, you failed. The political responsibility is Anders Ygeman and Morgan Johansson. You're the one who saved the police department, not me. As far as the budget is concerned, I am discussing the budget that is on Parliament's table for 2018, 2019 and 2020. It is only now before the elections that the Social Democrats say that we must now invest in the police. You came up with that investment very late, if you compare with our priority budget options from the previous year and the previous year. There the Liberals are far higher, with almost twice as much. Yes, that's right! Please read more before coming to the Chamber to debate this far too important question, Morgan Johansson! To conclude, Mr President, let us hear the Government say that here are the Liberals claiming a lot of things such as the fact that we have the lowest police density in ten years, and he says this to wave this away. But it is not really me who gets that answer, but it is the people who live in the particularly vulnerable areas, those who experience insecurity, and I think that is extremely serious! That cannot be the answer in this House either to the Liberals or to the people who read about, or may even be affected by, a house invasion or a shooting on a daily basis. It is totally unacceptable to come here and try to wave away the facts that have been reproduced in several newspapers in Sweden!
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-293	Mr President, I would like to No one's waving anything away. The concern for Roger Haddad is that he likes to talk a lot in opposition, but once he is in government power he does nothing. He never delivers, because then you think other things are important, such as tax cuts. There is a reason why you trained so few police officers, 600 – 700 police officers a year – half of the number that would have been needed. Why did you have such a low rate of education? Well, it was because other things were more important to you. Let's do the opposite. Now we have turned this around. It wasn't something that came in 2017. On the contrary, the upscaling of the numbers trained as police officers began long before then. As Roger Haddad knows, it's a long admission process. They dimension the year before, then apply for the persons in the spring before and then they do tests in the autumn and then start their education. So now we have a situation where, in a month's time, there will be another 478 police officers. In the autumn there will be another litter, and next year, 2019, there will be 1 300 new police officers, which is the highest number since 2010. We look at this in the long term, as opposed to the bourgeois government, which is happy to get rid of civilian workers and instead put policemen on civilian tasks. That's not how we do it. We're peeling up both the number of civilians and the number of police officers. We are also making sure to build up for long-term development by expanding the number of police workers by 30%, i.e. 10 000 more employees by 2024.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-299	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me, firstly, what concrete problems I think we have in the welfare business and, secondly, how these problems are solved by what the interpellier considers to be a deterioration of the conditions for companies to operate in this industry. The municipalities and county councils face a number of challenges, partly due to demographic developments, where both the number of older and younger people increases without the number of people of working age increasing equally. The reception and integration of new arrivals is also a challenge for both the state and the local government sector. We also see that skills provision is a challenge in many of the welfare activities. There is therefore a great need for investment in welfare in the future. Not least is it about school and care. As of 2017, the Government has therefore contributed 10 billion annually to municipalities and county councils and several billion in targeted grants to elderly care, health care, social services and school and intends to continue to strengthen welfare. As Anette Åkesson mentions, municipalities and county councils have different conditions to meet their commitments. We therefore have a levelling-up system aimed at creating a level playing field. However, it is important that the balancing system is reviewed and adapted to world changes. The Government has therefore assigned a special investigator to review the cost compensation system. In order for municipalities to meet future challenges, they need to have a capacity that is proportionate to their tasks. The Government therefore appointed the Municipal Investigation in February last year, which will analyse and propose various measures to strengthen the capacity of municipalities in the long term. I know that Anette Åkesson, as a member of the committee, is well aware of the work of the investigation. However, it is important to emphasise that the capacity of municipalities must be there regardless of whether or not there are private operators in the welfare activities. The inquiry last autumn submitted an interim report on simplifying the possibilities for municipal cooperation. The Government decided yesterday to submit a proposal to the Riksdag on the matter. It is an important step in providing municipalities and county councils with good conditions to meet current and future challenges. The introduction of market models in the public sector in recent decades has led to an overweight against scrutiny as a method of governance. In many places it has created distorted incentives and increased administration. The development means, among other things, that those who work in welfare have neither enough space to use their knowledge nor time to devote themselves to the core business. The Government is therefore also working to improve the governance of municipalities and county councils by focusing on measures to promote development based on operational competence, reduce detail management and burdensome administration. We need to make better use of the expertise of the profession in our operations. As one of several measures, the government has appointed the Trust Delegation, which will present a report this summer on how governance can be more trust-based. Private operators also have a role to play in the context of tax-funded welfare. The Government intends to ensure that public funding is used for precisely the activities for which it is intended and in such a way as to benefit children, pupils and users. Precisely because there are welfare challenges, for which the government makes billions of investments in welfare, it is not reasonable that the money goes to big profits. The money is needed in welfare. The government has made it clear that individual actors will continue to be able to operate in welfare. By ensuring good financing and reducing the presence of short-term profit interests in private welfare, the Government estimates that the risk of future business closures is reduced. At the same time as the prize hunt is to be stopped, we will safeguard freedom of choice and diversity in welfare. Those who carry out serious welfare activities and who regularly reinvest in the business will be able to operate in the future. I do not therefore share the view that if the Government's proposal is implemented, private operators will risk closure.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-309	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Government for its detailed answer. In essence, I share the concerns expressed by the Government regarding the municipalities' challenges in a longer perspective and also welcome the initiative for the Municipal Investigation. However I twist and reverse the answer, however, I do not really find any explanation for why and how a limitation on corporate profits solves these, either in the long or short term. And in view of today's problems for municipalities and county councils, everyone thinks that tax funds should be used for what they are for, that cheating should be prosecuted and that laws and rules should apply, even in the case of taxes. There is simply no political conflict. When you read the extract from the Legislative Council on the proposal for a limitation of profits, it seems that the Minister for Civil Affairs is quite alone in not believing that the proposal has serious consequences for private operators and therefore also for their customers. The criticism is serious, not only from the Swedish Law Council and the business community, but also from among others the Swedish National Audit Office, the National Board of Trade, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and Statskontoret. Furthermore, it is interesting that the Law Council does not see how the proposal on profit limitation should solve what is perceived as the overall aim of the proposal, to strengthen confidence in the welfare system, but rather risks being transformed to the contrary because, as the Law Council writes, it cannot be excluded that a large number of patients, users and their relatives, as well as a large number of pupils and parents in different ways are adversely affected by, for example, closures, transfers and organisational changes. The Legislative Council also draws attention to the contradiction in the fact that the two Councils' referrals – on the one hand, regarding the limitation of profits and, on the other hand, the increase in permit requirements – impose requirements that run counter to each other. One proposal requires that no surplus should arise in the business and the other that the business cannot be allowed to go in deficit. Sometimes you don't know if it's a joke or a serious thing. As I see it, all of us who engage politically want to improve society. I also think the Secretary of State wants that, but I do not share his and the government's views on what to do. It is confusing when the government claims to safeguard the freedom of choice and diversity of welfare, while all energy and resources are being spent on countering the companies involved that are supposed to ensure diversity and freedom of choice. I am not the only one who sees how private operators are at risk of closure if the proposal corresponds to what Ilmar Reepalu presented in its investigation. The fact that uncertainty characterises the industry also showed the Swedish Enterprise's report Enterprise 2018. This week we were able to read that business start-ups in the welfare sector have fallen by about 15 per cent since the turn of 2015/16 and that the number of welfare entrepreneurs who chose to close down increased by 18 per cent – this during a boom. With fewer companies than expected, fewer jobs will be created than it should and thus not only less diversity and choice in welfare but also less resources for welfare, both in the short and long term. With my interpellation, I wanted to put my finger on today's problems and how they are addressed – or not addressed. There are problems. Knowledge does not increase in school, school is not always equal and some segregation occurs. Queues in health care have doubled under the current government. These are real problems that need to be addressed, but they are not solved by limiting the profits of those actors who are trying to help carry out good activities. The Government claims that it is not reasonable for the money to go to big profits in welfare. But the investigation just showed that there are not big profits. Or does the Secretary of State have another source?
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anette Åkesson, for the interpellation and for the commitment to the issues related to welfare challenges and the conditions of the local government sector! Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that this debate would be good if we were to back down a little and see what changes have taken place in the Swedish administration and welfare sector in recent decades and that we allow ourselves to be honest, self-critical and admit that we have been at times naive in Sweden in view of the organisation of welfare in recent decades. Mr President, I would like to We are one of the very few countries in the Western world that have chosen the way to allow commercial operators to enter into the publicly funded welfare system, to allow unlimited profit withdrawals without actually being able to ensure that the resources are used for what they are intended for. We are quite unique in the Western world, in Europe, in the Nordic countries by allowing commercial operators to enter the publicly funded school and distribute profits from the business. Therefore, no analogue country has such a model. We must allow ourselves to be so honest and self-critical that we ask ourselves whether Swedish school has become better or worse off by the pursuit of profit. Does the fact that we are the only country that allows groups to enter the publicly funded school and also have the opportunity to distribute profits without limit make Swedish school better or worse? Have we achieved better knowledge? Have we got more equality? Has the Swedish school become more compensatory in recent decades? Or has progress gone the wrong way? Mr President, I would like to I have great respect for Anette Åkesson, not least because of her commitment to these issues. But I really find it difficult to understand the commitment to having unlimited profits in welfare. It's tax money to be used for the welfare that runs out of business. The Swedish National Agency for Education concluded that some targeted state grants needed to be stopped because the money was used for other purposes than for commercial free school groups. Should we have the development that we raise taxes to be able to meet the challenges Anette Åkesson describes and to ensure that our municipalities and county councils have the right resources but then cannot ensure that this tax money is actually used to meet the challenges we have in the welfare sector and see that money leaks from the business and, at worst, completely leaves the welfare sector and may even be used to invest in new markets for these groups in other countries? Is this the way we want to go? In what way should we maintain trust in public institutions if, from government and parliament, we force citizens to pay taxes but cannot assure citizens that their tax money will actually be used to hire teachers or nurses or invested in welfare? Mr President, I would like to We are unique in allowing this prize hunt at school and in the field of education. Somewhere we must be so honest with ourselves that we dare to critically examine whether this unique position has made our country and our school better or worse.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-324	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the commitment of the Minister for Civil Affairs to these issues, and I also find it interesting to debate with him. Of course, I do not want taxes to be increased; most people understand that. But both my party and I want more focus on quality, and we do not want to spend resources on stopping diversity. Yes, Sweden is unique in that we look at the actors in this way. On the other hand, Sweden is the only country where everyone can choose, not just those who have money. We have a system that is unique in that even those who do not have the resources can choose which school they want and make the public pay, and that is absolutely fantastic. I agree that mistakes have been made; there is no question about it. Not everything has flowed in the best way, but that's the way it is when you adjust the system. I was going to devote myself a little bit to the question of how profits in welfare arise at all, such as school. The school allowance received by the companies corresponds to the cost per pupil of the municipality. This means, for example, that both municipal schools and private alternatives, if any, have incentives to be attractive to students. The more students, the more resources. As a result of the competition situation, municipal schools are also working to improve themselves. A further consequence, which is not talked about as much, is the visibility of the costs. Unless otherwise noted by the municipality, in cases where a free school, which meets the quality requirements, makes great profits. This could happen when the school system was new, but today it is increasingly rare. Why? Well, what happened was that the municipalities started analysing their own costs. Then things that have not been seen before, such as high building costs, were discovered. Then they worked to reduce these costs, and when they succeeded, they paid out lower school money. This means that municipal schools are being run more efficiently now than before and that the profits that free schools are making are simply no longer so great. This is a good example of a better use of tax money for the benefit of all of us. We Moderates want the focus for welfare to be on the quality of operations as well as the activities to work as efficiently as possible. We want to treat the actors who perform welfare services as just as possible, regardless of whether they are private companies or the public sector. We are also in favour of making demands on those who perform the services, as well as on operators obviously complying with the laws and regulations we have in Sweden, whether it concerns taxes or business requirements. Our main focus is that the inhabitants should have the opportunity to choose or at least not be stopped from having the opportunity to choose. To ensure this, we want to create the best possible conditions for companies, including within welfare, so that they remain in Sweden and create jobs and thus tax revenues for our public operations. We want a society that deals with real problems. What strikes me when I read the Reepalu investigation is that it first finds that the quality is considered equivalent in private and public-run operations – some parts are better here, others are better there. Then it is shown that companies in the welfare sector make profits – even if they had to look for quite a long time to find a key figure that shows it. From this, the investigation then concludes that companies should be stopped from making profits. How did they land there? In my world, the natural question would be: if private companies deliver equivalent services and products of the same quality as municipalities and county councils but do so at a lower cost, why is it not the problem that the municipalities and county councils have higher costs for delivering the same products and services? Why not take the opportunity to learn from private companies? Now I know that this is happening in the municipalities, but the idea does not seem to have struck social democrats, left-wing parties or environmentalists at national level. How else could the social problem for you be that companies are making a profit? Why is the question we are not discussing what municipalities and county councils can do differently and how we from the Riksdag can contribute to them having those conditions?
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-339	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson had a rather long post and touched on many different perspectives and areas, but it was obvious that a perspective was not included. That is also what the Moderate Coalition Party sounds like when these issues are debated. There is a blind spot, and it is a total unwillingness to take into account one aspect, namely our teachers. It is not possible to have high-quality education and school activities without focusing on teachers' conditions. The quality of Swedish schools is not created by the government and parliament, but by the teachers, the profession in the Swedish school, which represents the quality. This means that the conditions given to the teachers are absolutely crucial for the quality of the school and for our ability to achieve the knowledge goals in Swedish schools. The problem with Anette Åkesson's and now Moderates' way of looking at this issue is that the profits in the Swedish school business run by commercial companies with unlimited profit distribution opportunities arise where most of the costs exist. Where is the majority of the costs in Swedish schools? Well, in the staff, in the teachers who work in Swedish school. What do you do if you want to maximize profits in Swedish school? In fact, staffing is reduced, teacher density is reduced, teachers are paid lower wages, and teachers are hired with lower wages. This is where the profits come from. Who, then, pays the price for these profits? Yes, those who work in Swedish schools do. Without focus on their conditions, we will not be able to meet the challenges we have in Swedish schools. Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson was wrong on one point. We are not the only country to choose publicly funded school activities. Many Western countries have models of freedom of choice in schools. However, there is no other country allowing the distribution of profits in this form from the publicly funded school. If there are no profits, how is it that it is so attractive for venture capital companies and other types of commercial investors to enter Swedish schools? Why, then, do we see stock exchange listings of groups? There are great opportunities to make a profit in Swedish schools at the expense of quality by reducing staffing and reducing the conditions for teachers. In the end, it is our students who are affected. We have to admit that we have been naive. We have believed that the market can solve the school's problems. But Swedish school is not a market. Education is not a market area, but should be based on the knowledge objectives set and managed by the profession that has the right knowledge and experience to conduct educational activities. We need to get back to professional autonomy, focus on teachers' needs, and thus raise the learning outcomes in school. This is not compatible with the prize hunt.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-348	Mr President, I would like to Of course, teachers are incredibly important, and even the Moderates have long recognized and acknowledged this. The Secretary of Civil Affairs' own investigation doesn't confirm what he's saying. There are winnings, but they're not high. It's not the big over-profits you've been talking about. The unique thing about Sweden is that it is possible to choose and that the public pays. In other countries you can also choose, but then you have to contribute yourself. Let us sum up: there is no social problem that a profit cap solves. This has been confirmed not least in this debate. Are there social problems? Absolutely, in the short as well as in the long term, and both the Minister of Civil Affairs and I have mentioned some. But none of them are solved by limiting corporate profits. On the contrary, only the threat of a profit constraint has already had negative effects, before the proposal is even up for decision. It is harmful to schoolchildren, the sick, the elderly, businesses, employees and society. I could also add that it is detrimental to confidence in politics and has led to a huge waste of resources. To push for a solution that has negative effects on society and that almost nobody can understand a problem that does not exist is an abuse of their power position. What if the resources that the government has put in – and that opposition and industry have had to put – to produce and debate proposals on a left-wing idea instead could have been spent on constructively finding solutions to the challenges that municipalities and county councils face in the short and long term? Because there are really problems to deal with. Of course, some issues are being worked on out in municipalities and county councils, but many other things have to stand back. Our task is to ensure that the Swedish people gain well-being that corresponds to the level of tax we pay, in both the short and long term. Stimulating innovation should be a priority challenge, and this requires many actors in the key areas of well-being: education, health and long-term care. For if welfare companies can make profits, they work in ways that municipal businesses can learn from. I would like to thank the Minister for Civil Affairs for the debate.
i-ae5167bcbd3f1158-355	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Anette Åkesson for the debate and to conclude by reminding those who listen to it that the fact that seven out of ten Swedes want to limit the profits in Swedish welfare and school shows that the Swedish people see the profits there as a social problem. They've seen the JB bankruptcy. They have seen how the huge over-profits that preceded the bankruptcy affected children and young people who went to school. They have seen how our teachers paid the price for lower staffing in commercial independent schools. They have seen that school establishments are based on profitability, not on the needs of our citizens and students. Against this background, a majority of the Swedes, a majority of the moderate voters, a majority of the Swedish-democratic voters and a majority of the Social-Democratic voters, choose to oppose unlimited profits in the Swedish school. Mr President, I would like to These citizens are right. It is we who are unique in our unlimited profit hunt in the world, and it is time for politics – from the right to the left – to recognise the mistakes, limit the benefits of school and welfare, and combine our model with diversity and choice for users, students and citizens with order in school. This requires control over the use of resources so that we can ensure that taxpayers' money is actually spent on what they are intended for. Thank you very much for the debate.
