i-4082462800771aed-1	Madam President, I would like This week is one of the saloons of the rejected, that is to say, the Parliament is going through all the motions and economic proposals that have been rejected in the first round. As you know, there has been another salon for the rejected. It originated in Paris in the 19th century. For over a hundred years, between about 1780 and 1890, the Paris Hall was dominant in the international art world. That's where the newest and finest was shown, that's where contemporary art was defined, and that's where you would be represented to become someone. Of course, the jury who decided who would have a place had a tremendous power to define what was right but also a tremendous power to define what was beautiful and what direction art would take in the future. It is perhaps a little strange that it was Napoleon III who finally broke the power and dominance of the Paris salon. However, he became more liberal over the years, you might say, but in the 1860s he took an initiative, probably hastened by many others, to a competing salon to the Paris Salon – the refused salon. Those who didn't fit in the Paris salon were given another chance. Those who did not taste the jury had another opportunity to show off their art. The first exhibition was in 1863 and there were quite a few now famous artists who had been rejected, including Cézanne and Manet. Manets Breakfast in the green was a great scandal but is also one of the few works we know from that time. This also opened the door to new art directions, not least Impressionism. This, Madam President, seems to me to be a really good cultural policy: a leading politician, called Napoleon III, who opens up for something quite different and creates an opportunity for those who do not fit in the present. I think we can learn from it both in our time and in our country. Madam President, I would like I think it is a general human trait that it is difficult to think new. True, it is often said that you can learn new things, but it is even harder to forget the old things you could. This applies to us humans as well as to society as a whole. Perhaps we need each of us a small salon for rejected thoughts where we are given space and time to think, think new and meet things we didn't know we were interested in. The pursuit of education that was so incredibly crucial for Sweden's emergence as a country of freedom, democracy and development was about this: that more people took the time to open up to new thoughts and learn to grow both in breadth and depth. This education is also needed today, perhaps more than for a long, long time. Good conditions for public education, good libraries with a lot of literature and calm to learn and read, as well as a media policy that allows more people to become curious and learn more are some of the things that I think are needed to strengthen education in society. The Liberals' cultural budget therefore includes an investment in libraries of SEK 200 million more, partly to increase purchases and partly to get order and to find out the libraries that are currently exposed to mess. We are investing in cultural bonuses that are about institutions that receive public funding to strive to reach new audience groups. It is so important to reach out of your bubble and into other people's bubbles. That's why we like Creative School and want to develop it further. That's why we basically like the idea that there are as low thresholds as possible into museums and like to see free entrance in as many museums as possible. Madam President, I would like We also need salons for those rejected in Swedish cultural life. We must safeguard the freedom of culture and keep political indexes away. We must ensure that there is a variety of opportunities to finance their cultural practices and their actions. In the Liberals' budget motion, we also make proposals to create a broader and freer funding of culture, on the one hand by having more broad and long-term investments in public support rather than targeted small bags, and on the other hand by better conditions for donations, foundations and private cultural sponsorship. You shouldn't have to depend on a single financier. Once you have been rejected, you should be able to apply for money elsewhere too, and a variety of funding opportunities is therefore needed. I think this is something that cultural policy has underestimated for a long time. Of course, money is needed for cultural policy, but not just any money. We need money that drives quality, money that stands up for diversity and freedom and money for those who need to seek something else, one that shows something else that is not fashionable today and that today cannot be financed in the usual way. Madam President, I would like I believe that cultural policy is more important than it has been for a long time. This is due not least to political developments. There is a backlash going on around the world against radical innovation. People feel that it has gone too far and that it is too hard to be provoked. Politicians think that they should use that fatigue for provocation and news that many people feel for their own purpose and control society in a clearer way. They want to control what is visible and can be found in the media and what can be shown in the art. We see it in country after country and unfortunately, Madam President, unpleasantly close to ourselves. At the same time, we are in the midst of a rapid and comprehensive technological change. As a result of a globalised economy and many other changes that have taken place in our world economy, we are now showered with different kinds of impressions. The need to form is more important than ever, while it is more difficult than ever to orient oneself. Cultural policy is at the heart of this intersection, which is so important for the development of society now and in the future. What is the balance to be struck in policy on these issues? How much is there to protect? How much should you dare challenge what exists and open up for the new instead? How do you do it without pointing too clearly with your hand? I think you should have arm's length, even longer arm length than you have today. At the same time, we all have a desire to somehow highlight the new and yet preserve the old. Finally, that balance will be very difficult to achieve. In the long term, cultural actors, cultural practitioners, artists and authors, together with researchers, among other things, determine much of what can be thought in a society. That is why freedom of culture is so important. That's why cultural policy is so very difficult. Should we be content with removing obstacles? Should you be content to stand up for freedom? Or should we also create better conditions, and if so, how? These are questions that are more important to ask than for a long time. Madam President, I would like We are in a situation that is not at all similar to that of Napoleon III when he broke the dominance of the Paris salon. Now we're being flooded with impressions from all sides. Now we can choose and choose between art from all times and all the corners of the world. Now it is hard to know what is worth spending time on. The initial taster who in the past could tell exactly what was worth knowing is today challenged by influencers and algorithms, and it is on both good and bad. Each of us and society as a whole sometimes need to think about how we get out of this, how we create a salon for rejected thoughts and art, and how we as a society increase freedom. Madam President, I would like It is against this background, among other things, that the Liberals have written their budget motion. Since it has not won the floor of this House, I am not taking part in the decision on this point but am referring to our particular opinion. On the other hand, I am in favour of reservation 2 on the objectives of cultural policy.
i-4082462800771aed-22	Madam President, I would like Christer Nylander talks about creating room for it and those who cannot fit today. At the same time, we note that the Liberals are one of the parties that say no to all the new appropriations that the Swedish Democrats have advocated should be entered under Category 17. These are much-needed reforms that would strengthen civil society's commitment and belief in the power of cultural policy. It is about a ROT deduction for cultural properties, creating elderly care for cultural incentives for the elderly and cultural pilots in the country's municipalities that can revitalize both contemporary culture and cultural heritage. They also say no to new cultural policy objectives that can broaden and demonstrate the importance of culture in more cross-sectoral areas such as health care and community building. It is important for citizens' commitment to cultural considerations and for us being cultural beings. I would like to ask how Christer Nylander justifies all of this 'no' to what is just new thinking when, at the same time, you hit your chest and want to create room for what does not fit today. It is said itself that cultural policy is needed for what is not fashionable. There we see an incredible number of much-needed reforms for not least the forms of Swedish cultural heritage.
i-4082462800771aed-26	Madam President, I would like It is not very difficult to answer that question. The Liberals say no to the cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats, and the Swedish Democrats say no to the proposals made by the Liberals. It's no wonder. We are quite a long way from each other in cultural policy. We have different definitions of what innovation is. That is why we are making completely different proposals from those put forward by the Swedish Democrats.
i-4082462800771aed-27	Madam President, I would like I would like to hear how Christer Nylander views a question. They say that they want to keep politics free of cultural life. The aim is to keep the various institutions of our area of expenditure free from various political points of view. There we saw not too long ago how this transitional government and former fully functioning government not least politicized the museum system. This caused a great deal of reaction not least to liberal debaters. They suggested that political pointers should be inserted here, pointing out how museums should be desirable integration engines for an identified desirable development of society from a certain political perspective. It was also seen how they got narrow political mission descriptions rather than the mission to operate on the basis of free education, which Christer Nylander also speaks hotly for. Now I see you bought a lot of it. I also see that much of the government's reform on free admission has been bought instead of going towards open museums for the whole country.
i-4082462800771aed-30	Madam President, I would like I guess it's always the case that we see other people's touchsticks, but not our own. It became very obvious when the Swedish Democrats were to exhibit something that reminded them of their politics and values at the Fotografiska museum. There they chose to place a work by Lars Vilks, an artist that I like and whose provocation I like. If you're for provocation, you can't say in one moment that provocation is wrong and my provocation is right. For you, it is about provoking the right people, Aron Emilsson. I want a freedom that allows any artist who wants to have the freedom to provoke just how they want to. I want that freedom. That is why we are putting forward a wide range of proposals to increase the freedom of artists, to increase the freedom of culture, to increase the freedom of literature and to ensure that more people can meet quality culture in freedom.
i-4082462800771aed-33	Madam President, I would like It's time. On 17 December 1918, the Liberal Prime Minister, Nils Eden, began his speech in the First Chamber. He thanked the Riksdag for agreeing to a liberating act. Ideological contradictions had given way to the good of the country. He said: We have introduced full democracy – in the state and in the municipality – on the solid basis of consensus. But the truth is that the Swedish Right was neither on a firm foundation nor had a consensus on the matter. Because when it was time for Ernst Trygger, leader of the First Chamber Right and later Prime Minister, to speak, he did not tailor the words over the setback but said that the gates had now been opened for what he thought was a full-scale social disintegration. He said: The cornerstones of our community will be broken. I have never felt a vexation as great as the one I have during my 24 Parliaments, as I now have to assist this proposal. Ernst Trygger's speech, of course, was not addressed to the Social Democratic Member of Parliament, Hjalmar Branting, who had been a key negotiator under these conditions. It was aimed at the liberals who had accepted the abolition of parliamentary class principles and that women should be given the same influence over social development as men. Madam President, I would like The work of the Liberals on this issue is historic. It is not primarily because they went against the other right and together with the Social Democrats introduced the right to vote in Sweden. It is because they did so despite the fact that the electoral reform was popular among their own voters and despite the fact that the issue was in danger of dividing their own party. It is true that the perfect right to vote for all came much later. However, at the end of the evening of 17 December 1918, the debate was closed in the First Chamber, and in the Second Chamber the proposal was voted through by a large majority. Madam President, I would like Perhaps it is precisely the irony of fate that, exactly 100 years later, we are once again observing the dividing line of the Swedish right. Although I have great respect for the fact that public patience is beginning to run its course, it is precisely this dividing line that is currently leaving our country without government. This makes us one of the last countries in Europe to use parliamentary tools to stop a nationalist party from exercising political influence and power. The ongoing ideological conflict on the right is just about this: which way are they going to go? I can imagine that a great deal of time and reflection has been devoted to what budgetary cooperation might mean, or if we all exaggerate the nationalism of the Swedish democrats for our own gain. Some representatives from the right claim that the party leadership of the Swedish Democrats has disowned the Nazi history of the party and must therefore be tried as well as all other parties. Madam President, I would like If a little time has been spent on culture and cultural policy, it will be difficult to relate to such a simple formulation and such a test. Sverige-democratic government cooperation or budgetary influence would mean such a radical change and direction in cultural policy that I would almost have to appeal to conservative and liberal opponents not to stand naïve to this. Let me give you a few examples. Before you, you have the Swedish Democrats' budget motion for 2019. It states that:
i-4082462800771aed-44	中 Cultural diversity should give way to a selective policy-driven cultural heritage agenda
i-4082462800771aed-46	The increased focus on free performing arts as a whole should be abolished
i-4082462800771aed-47	中 film support will decrease by as much as SEK 106 million
i-4082462800771aed-49	The appropriation for adult education will be reduced by a total of SEK 770 million. What would this mean for those who want to study a course at the folk high school in order to qualify for upper secondary school or for the artists and cultural creators in our country, for the young people in the major cities' millions of programme areas who are not allowed to take part in the sports movement's activities at the moment or for those sparsely populated areas who will no longer receive a continued library initiative? What does it mean to so greatly reduce people's education, film, contemporary art, sport, people-to-people encounters and international cultural exchanges? What are the effects in society? Madam President, I would like As bad and serious as I think public cuts in the field of culture are, I should be honest and say that it is not the lack of cultural efforts that is at the crossroads of the right. Rather, it is the cultural view of the Swedish democrats. They themselves call it an anthropological dimension of culture, something that no other party represents. The anthropological dimension of culture is about the popular identity, which is why the Swedish Democrats want to reduce funding for contemporary art and increase money for what they themselves designate as cultural heritage. The expression of an essentialist and outdated culture, which in no way represents research within the framework of either anthropology or culture, is, of course, not something that is perceived. But here's the thing: The cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats is based on the conviction that there is an original given identity that is not changing. The danger lies in the fact that it is wrong in substance, because culture itself is changing. All we do in the meeting with each other, in our communication with each other and through our different expressions with each other is to broaden and challenge our perspectives, right? But the worst is still the meaning of this conviction, for if identity is original and cannot be changed, how many are we who do not have a place? Madam President, I would like That is precisely why I believe that we are once again at a crossroads. However unpopular it may be at the moment, we elected representatives have been given the task of taking responsibility for what will be the further path. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a transitional government until a new government takes office. At present, we do not need to make things more difficult than they already are. That is why we have called on all parties to accept a transitional budget that maintains the necessary social functions until a government takes office, which will then lay the foundations for its economic policy. The Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, have opposed this order, which led the Riksdag to decide on other spending frameworks than those of the transitional government's budget on Wednesday. The process is sloppy and, in my opinion, the very last thing Sweden now needs. For culture, this means cutting SEK 100 million at the children's cultural school and introducing entrances to state museums after the turn of the year. Fortunately, they have listened to the sharp criticism, which means that the museums will in any case have some time to change. But this is what happens if you do not work according to the order prescribed by parliamentarism. Madam President, I would like All of this means that we Social Democrats do not participate in today's decision under paragraph 1. Our views are set out in a separate opinion. Our culture policy will simply have to wait for a new government.
i-NYBsXAMPirUvdfsYEuoNhc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Redar, for an interesting speech! Yesterday we began the celebration of democracy 100 years. It is truly worth mentioning and guarding. However, I am rather frustrated by the brown painting that Lawen Redar smudges on us Moderates. It feels very strange and strange, moreover, in a debate about a budget from the Moderates and Christian Democrats that is only 213 million less than the transitional budget. There is a rather small difference in a budget with a turnover of 15.9 billion. I would like to raise the issue of culture school. It is very noisy in the debate, and there is a red horror propaganda that children will be without their cultural school. I have had a look at a number of municipalities and the percentage that these state-owned one-year grants bring to the municipalities' cultural budgets in relation to the cultural school, and that is somewhere between someone per mille and up to 2%. I will come back to this in my speech. What I wonder about is municipal self-government. I often feel that the Social Democrats do not have the confidence in their municipal representatives to distribute the budget so that it reaches children and young people, for example in this case with the cultural school. After all, we add an extra 3 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities. Why would municipalities not want to strengthen their cultural schools with part of that money?
i-4082462800771aed-64	Madam President, I would like It is not my intention to in any way brown-paint the Moderates. What I said in my speech is that I think we are facing a crossroads, today as before. It is about the culture of Sweden today, and that is the main reason why we do not currently have a government. To go back to the development grant to the cultural school, it is based on a government public investigation that deals with the effort you need to make for the cultural school, i.e. analyse it at national level. We believe that the cultural school has such a character and makes such a contribution to the Swedish cultural offering for our children and young people that a development grant is needed. This is particularly in support of reaching children's groups in socio-economically weak residential areas and aims to broaden the range of young people with disabilities. You mean in your exercise that the development grant is costly and inefficient, Lotta Finstorp, but 85 per cent of our municipalities use the development grant. Then why do you want to cut back on it?
i-4082462800771aed-67	Madam President, I would like Yes, 85 per cent of municipalities have ever applied for this grant. All contributions from the State must, of course, be sought on the basis of parameters that are state-owned. We believe that municipal self-government must be protected much more, because it is out there in the municipalities, which look so very different, that you know exactly how to prioritise the use of the money. The cultural school has a fantastic activity – I know that as a parent of three children who have attended cultural school. I also know that things look very different in the country. With the EUR 3 1⁄2 billion that we are now adding, I am not worried that the municipalities will not give priority to children and young people. Briefly: Adults must be able to pay admission to state museums. However, it should be free for children and young people up to 19 years old.
i-4082462800771aed-70	Madam President, I would like The cultural school inquiry showed that 40,000 children and young people are in line for a cultural school place. I hear nothing from the Moderates that would mean that one should in any way contribute to increasing the number of places at the cultural school in our country. This requires the provision of skills and increased funding, and probably that is why more than 85% of our municipalities have just applied for the increased funding. As far as state museums are concerned, when we implement reforms in the Social Democracy, we make them general. We do not believe in any kind of alms-seeking policy in which you should receive leisure money in order to be able to get a free time at all when you cannot pay for it because of your financial conditions. When we implement our reforms, we make them general. It was also one of the reasons why we made free admission to our state museums. We also went to elections to extend this policy by introducing free admission to our county museums. It is a work that we want to continue to develop.
i-4082462800771aed-73	Madam President, I would like But how interesting and how nice that for once there is a bit of discussion! In fact, it is not always as it is in these spending-area debates. First of all, it may not come from the right party, the Social Democrats, to paint brown in the Chamber. Sometimes you can use the expression, which is to clean up your own door, and few parties have the history of the Social Democrats when it comes to horrors back in the day. I think it's more interesting to talk about the present and the future. Lawen Redar claims that we have an anthropological view of culture within the Swedish Democrats. The student of culture and cultural science knows that there are two definitions of culture. One is about the beautiful arts, external cultural markers and the like. The second is about the anthropological, and not least the social anthropological – the way we are and the way we practice, that is, the customs, customs, festivals and rituals that exist in all cultures and all the different groups of people. What I am reacting to is the enormous misinterpretation that Lawen Redar makes of the view that the anthropological dimension plays a role. It is very clear in the Swedish Democrats' principle programme and also in our cultural policy starting points that we stand for an open Swedishness, that is, an inclusive culture view. Anyone who has the opportunity and who wants constructively to become part of the cultural community has the opportunity to do so. We will give the tools, opportunities and infrastructure to make it possible. That's what it's all about. Everyone can fit, and I can reassure Lawen Redar as well. We are on a basic grant to peoples' education and libraries, and not least we strengthen rural areas with open-museum reform, cultural pilots to the whole of Sweden's municipalities and so on. These are reforms to which the Social Democrats say no. Lawen Redar refers to research, and these are reforms that, according to our international analysis, when we talk to people out in the municipalities, are necessary and needed. That is what these proposals are the result of.
i-4082462800771aed-78	Madam President, I would like The reference I make is to a quote from Aron Emilsson himself in a DN article from 2014. It was written by journalist Niklas Orrenius, who gave him the opportunity to express the cultural policy that the Swedish Democrats implement and want to pursue. This was met by a large research team who said that the view of anthropology and culture is not consistent with research. That is exactly what I have expressed in my speech. Speaking of history, however, I would like to say that the Social Democrats are consistently contributing to democratic development by saying that we have erred. We've made mistakes, and we're gonna fix them. But when the Swedish Democrats were formed in 1988, they did so for another reason. Anders Klarström said it clearly: It is about formulating a new policy that will go home with the voters. But the foundation of existence is the Nazi roots, and you don't get away from that. I believe that this culture view is deeply dangerous to Sweden's development. I believe that it is a nationalist party we are dealing with here, and that is also the reason why Sweden does not have a government today.
i-4082462800771aed-81	Madam President, I would like The basic reason why we do not have a government is that there is a greater ability and opportunity to talk to each other in Sweden's classrooms and workplaces than it does between adult people in the country's highest decision-making bodies. That is, of course, regrettable. I am the first to welcome a constructive discussion and a constructive climate for dialogue. That it was about fifty social anthropologists who attacked the importance of highlighting the anthropological view of culture, I think, has a lot to do with the opinion corridor that has been in place in Sweden recently. If you listen to what social anthropologists around the Nordic region and around us say, we hear that the assessment is not the same. If you study communication and ethnology and engage in folk life research, it is perfectly reasonable to get out of there when you show that culture counts and is important. We have seen this in our reality. Norms, values, moral systems of our legal perception and so on are important. We've seen that in our immediate time, so I'm against this description.
i-4082462800771aed-83	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson can of course criticise the researchers, and there is nothing wrong with that. You're welcome to do that. But the fact is that they clearly said that the policy they express has a political agenda and not a research agenda. Finally, with the Swedish Democrats' budget exercise for 2019, we would have a drastic phase-out of cultural policy in Sweden, with a reduction of as much as 770 million for public education, 84.5 million for the sports movement, 106 million for film support and so on. I do not believe that what the Swedish Democrats are expressing gives us such a strong public cultural policy.
i-4082462800771aed-85	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 and underlining that we are in favour of our particular sentences, in particular in favour of our financial perspectives. And he hath seen them, even father and son, pure as children through many joints: but whence came they down here? Family followed generation soon, flourished, aged, went... but where?
i-4082462800771aed-88	Quiet is the forest and the node all, the life out there is frozen, only from the distance of the fall of the rapids is heard quite slowly the noise. Santa listens and, half in a dream, thinks he hears the stream of time, wonders, where it will go, wonder, where the source may be. So goes some strofer in Viktor Rydberg Santa, which is a good time now when it is painted for Christmas. Yeah, where are we going, and where are we from? It is not only a question that is asked in On the Track or in the poem Santan this time of year, but it is also a highly relevant issue during today's line debate in which we set out the direction for the coming years and debate the objectives and means to set the framework and conditions for this broad field of cultural policy relating to culture, the media, religious communities and civil society. We count, benefit and prioritise. We take a position on where the political task and responsibility are greatest and where free cultural life should fly freely. Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that it is time to modernise Swedish cultural policy, the direction of which has remained largely unchanged since the 1960s and whose goal has remained unchanged since 2009. They have been in spite of an increasingly changing environment and an increasing need to recognise the forms of Swedish cultural heritage, the role of free educational institutions and, not least, that culture counts within health care, within the community building and for us as cultural beings. Against this background, we Swedish democrats are once again putting forward new cultural policy objectives that broaden and deepen the cross-sectoral role of cultural policy and a budgeted reform agenda that brings culture to new uses or, as you might say, new areas of culture. In the event of a rapid overflight over this year's expenditure area movements, we can see that it is swinging. The red-greens show no major re- or new priorities through the transitional budget, but the Center Party and Liberals, on the other hand, are throwing a slalom slope into new terrain. In alliance with the red-green parties, the C appropriations are zero, and the government's policies and priorities seem to be satisfactory. The liberal a goes further and baxes in yet interfering with re state resources, unfortunately not for purposes that are disadvantaged but in the direction of the red-green key. Remarkable is that both these parties are doing so against a faltering fund of previous criticisms of centralisation and politicisation. The Swedish Democrats devoted the last parliamentary term to ambitious cultural policy ideas and analysis of much-needed reform proposals. News in this year's budget is primarily the means to work out a Swedish equivalent of Denmark's cannon for school education, as well as an accentuated need for increased opportunities for parasporten and for deaf, blind and deaf-studded people to make their heritage, environment and history available through a new resource centre, which all too often ends up in the shadow of a lack of special museums and directives from decision-makers. I would also like to emphasise the new appropriations that we want to introduce, which have been identified in the headings and preambles of the past year. This applies not least to efforts to create elderly care and open museums and incentives for cultural environmental competence in the country's municipalities. Target images here are cultural stimulation and wellness from the cradle to the grave, accessibility to cultural heritage regardless of whether you live in Sorsele or at Södermalm and resource support to take into account antiquarian planning processes if the municipality itself does not have that competence. In the expenditure area as a whole, we do not make radical or drastic changes, but reprioritise resources with regard to the sector as a whole towards changing focus and needs gradually. It is clear that we stand for a paradigm shift in our view of goals and public responsibility, not infrequently with an outlook and inspiration from our Nordic neighbours, but taking into account Swedish conditions and with an assessment of our review area's conditions and conditions. Culture is what we meet in museums and libraries, what we face in exhibitions, theatres and concert halls. Special talent may be required to practice art and special knowledge in order to acquire it as a recipient. It can distinguish individuals from individuals and consolidate high thresholds and gaps between what has at least previously been called fine culture and ugly culture. At the same time, at least in theory, there is a great consensus that the forms of culture should be accessible to those seeking them regardless of circumstances and abilities – the gates high and the doors wide. Madam President, I would like In spite of this ambition, it can rightly be said that there is an unprecedented cultural gap in our country. The rift moves between city and country, between immigrants and Swedes, between young and elderly and not least between traditional bearers and relativists. The latter argue with the stubbornness of a fool that all culture is good, equal and malleable in all contexts, and not infrequently with the immediate addition that there really is no Swedish culture or Swedish specificity. They claim that Sweden is one of the few countries that lack cultural personality and that all development has come from outside. Against this background, it will be difficult to create community and cohesion. Against this background, it overlooks the need for a society that holds together and where cultural policy plays a role, perhaps the greatest role. Integration is imposed on our spending area, but not with the intention of creating cohesion, but rather with support and infrastructure maintaining segregation or separation. It is a state encouragement to maintain remote cultural norms and laws for moral systems that have certainly proved incompatible with norms and values in the Nordic countries. However, since everyone is judged to be able to adapt to each other and form part of an unidentified culture with yet to be identified consequences – more than we have already seen – no directional donor is considered necessary either. In this way, I interpret the response of some parties to the objectives and increases in funding presented by the Swedish Democrats in the report we are debating today. Madam President, I would like That is how you can reason with all due respect, and so you should reason in a country that celebrates more than 250 years of freedom of the press, which has a long tradition of freedom of expression and which just the other day celebrated the democratic anniversary. For us, Sweden has obvious values that we in this House should agree on should be cared for as tenderly as the Christmas rose during the snow drive. At the same time, we should be able to agree that not only the relativist and to some extent elitist cultural view, which in many ways characterises the prevailing line of opinion, is the only one that prevails. Even in times of the recognition of democracy, meeting places are needed, such as here in this House, where the culture view is also set against a more popularly based approach to governance, where cohesion and community are a clear and inclusive objective. It is more compatible with the basic liberal values that are set in our form of government, although it sometimes sounds different from left-wing liberal debaters. Often, an important discussion about the importance of culture is obscured. Our world holds a global cultural diversity, and the world becomes so much more interesting if it is constituted by nations that recognize their cultural peculiarity to those who are born and raised there, to those who want to become part of it and to those who are visiting to broaden their horizons. Not infrequently, the desire to highlight a recognised Swedish culture is attacked with the focus of a pseudo-debate characterized by rhetorical straw men. You paint a picture of what you want to attack, and then you attack it rather than the arguments and the funds themselves. Not infrequently in the debate on cultural policy, it is clear that there is a dividing line between those who value globalism, internationalism and modernism and those who value security, homeliness and tradition. About a quarter of the population is estimated to belong to the former and about half the latter. This is not reflected in current expenditure-related movements. However, how we prioritise is important for social trust between citizens and us decision-makers and for achieving goals. Culture can be likened to an invisible lens through which we both see and organize the impressions of the outside world. My impression is that it is time for a change of cultural policy. I therefore support Amendment No 1 and strongly support our particular opinion.
i-4082462800771aed-108	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson has now stood in the speaker's chair and spoke warmly about the Swedish democrats' cultural policy and the new initiatives and cultural policy objectives to be introduced. Yet we have an interesting fact. It is that the Swedish Democrats supported the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' draft budget when the House would take a decision on Wednesday. Why did they do that?
i-4082462800771aed-110	Madam President, I would like That's right. We will always support and vote on our own budgetary framework and our own budget, right into the tile, as long as it is possible to vote for it and until it has fallen. We always have. Our draft budget did not win a hand in Parliament. I'm sorry about that. But then there was a bad and a less bad proposal to take a stand on. Nevertheless, it is clear that the draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats is moving in a direction that is closer to ours than the proposals of the transitional government. That's how it is. Then there are reforms that we criticise and look at differently. But you have to choose between a less good and an even worse proposal. There are parts where we see that the transitional government and the previously fully functioning government have made wrong priorities. I am thinking of the free-entry reform with the centred urban focus. I am thinking of the politicisation of the museum system. I am also thinking of the nationalisation of film policy. There we want to see completely new industries and actually a completely new investigation. I am also thinking of the inclusion of what is called integration efforts in peoples' education. It is not really broad funding for peoples' education activities, but earmarked, politically oriented and guided missions to work with integration where other sectors have failed, such as the regular education system and the like. It's not good public education policy. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are in part doing the same analysis and going in the same direction as us. They see that the appropriations are not well justified and should be examined. That is the reasoning behind it.
i-4082462800771aed-116	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that you can first explain your own policy and, secondly, support someone else's. It is a new parliamentary management of budgetary processes that I do not believe was common before the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag. Let's go back to the question of public education. In fact, I and Aron Emilsson sat at the same meeting where representatives of the Folkbildningsrådet reported on the general funding for peoples' education. Large parts of the government's expansion of the budget to public education are general grants that go to the general courses. For the most part, it is about young or older people who have not entered courses in order to have the opportunity to move on to studies at upper secondary level being given that opportunity. The Swedish Democrats' budget reduces the funding for public education by a total of SEK 770 million. Why?
i-4082462800771aed-119	Madam President, I would like It's all relative. If you just say 770 million, a listener cannot put it in relation to anything else, unless you give the whole picture. In our area of expenditure, peoples' education is well over SEK 4 billion, and even within the Education Committee's area of expenditure there are appropriations that carry the population education system. I believe that we retain the bulk, a significant part, of the public education problem and strengthen it through other efforts. You have to look at the whole area. We have efforts in polytechnic education. We have other educational measures which should also facilitate the need for education. Moreover, just because there is a high level of support for general courses, it is not clear that this is the part of peoples' education that needs to be developed. Just as we heard the Folkbildningsrådet say, that part has swelled for a long time. It started already in the early 90s when they had set a level of 15 per cent general course. The rest would be a special course. But then it has become more and more. We believe that there is a greater need to strengthen the specific courses.
i-4082462800771aed-122	Madam President, I would like I was inspired by Aron Emilsson's reading of Viktor Rydberg's Santa. Of course it fits very well in the season that we are in right now. But there is another story by Viktor Rydberg that perhaps more describes Swedish cultural policy and the debate that we should have, namely Singoalla. If I remember correctly, it takes place during the 1300s in Sweden. Knight Erland goes riding and meets a mysterious woman, Singoalla. In the first edition, I think it ended badly. But then the story was rewritten and ended happily. Madam President, I would like I would like Aaron Emilsson to spend some time talking about happy endings when people from completely different cultures meet and give each other strength, even love sometimes. But Aaron Emilsson used his entire speech to point out groups and oppose each other. I think it's so boring. But it is not that there is a knife-sharp limit where 25 per cent like international collaboration and 75 per cent are more traditionalists. A cultural budget cannot be designed in such a way that 25% support those who want global collaboration and 75% only those who want to do things close to home. People are different and different. People cannot be captured in statistics. People sometimes need to face things they didn't even know existed. Think a little about how to create a good story for knight Erland in Singoalla when he meets an unknown woman out in the Swedish countryside! Think about how it can be formulated in cultural policy too! That's why it's so important to read books and see art that you didn't know existed. That is why cultural policy needs to consider how people can meet instead of constantly wearing each other down.
i-4082462800771aed-126	Madam President, I would like Then I can congratulate Christer Nylander on the fact that we are probably very much in agreement in that respect. We both travel quite a lot around the world and discover other cultures. In so far as we can, we take impressions and give impressions in our society. I do not believe that I single-handedly pointed out any group; on the contrary, I talked about the need for cultural cohesion. We need a kitt to heal this country. Unfortunately, our country is polarised today for various reasons, and so does Christer Nylander. Reality shows that we have a cultural divide over the country that is not healthy for any democratic society. We have completely different valuation systems in many areas. We have different views on norms and values and on how we treat each other, women and men in public places, and that is tragic. With regard to the discussion on somewheres and anywheres, to which I referred in my speech, there is of course no black and white scale, but it is actually a floating greyscale. Studies have also been carried out to identify priorities for cultural policy, which gives us a major mandate to strengthen resources and give priority where there are poor needs, not least in the cultural heritage. This applies to both material and intangible forms throughout Sweden. The Liberals have approached this in the past, for example, when they more or less copied our open-museum reform, although they did so only to 10% of the appropriation. When you read the Liberals' previous budget, the insight and analysis is there, but they draw a completely different conclusion. I'd rather say, yes, we need to see each other. We need to meet and have an intellectual discussion about cultural policy, about who we are, what we have to give and what forums we can meet on. I'd be happy to do that at any time.
i-4082462800771aed-131	Madam President, I would like Then I can begin by revealing that there was cultural policy before the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag. There were people in this Chamber who wondered how more people would go to the museums before Aron Emilsson became a Member of Parliament. This discussion has existed for a long time. How do you make more people look for cultural heritage? How do you make more people go to museums? How do you lower the thresholds for new groups to get to the museums? That's what's important, that you become more curious about what's not the obvious, not even for ourselves. That is why I keep talking about cultural policy as an extension of school. It gives us new opportunities to constantly face what you would not otherwise have met. That is why it is so tragic that Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats are constantly thinking about: How should you define what is the Swedish essence? How should you ensure that knight Erland never meets any unknown person in the Swedish countryside? How do you make sure that they can never be brought together and create new things? In fact, sometimes, Madam President, it is in the rift that the new one is created.
i-4082462800771aed-135	Madam President, I would like Then we can actually look at one of our biggest cultural policy reforms. I have full respect for the cultural policy debates of previous generations and the cultural policy debate that has taken place in this House before I entered Parliament. However, I believe that the reform agenda that we have presented over the last four years has a major impact on what is needed in the country's municipalities. That is something we must be able to do even if there have been cultural policy debates in the past. With regard to the concrete reform of cultural pilots, it is one way of getting new groups to meet, of having the opportunity for contemporary culture and cultural heritage to find a synthesis, to find activities in all the activities of welfare, to broaden the concept of culture and to get new groups to meet each other, just as you mentioned. This applies to native Swedes, immigrants, young people, older generations where generational meetings are not as common and so on. That reform would have an effect because there is a desire for it.
i-4082462800771aed-138	Madam President, I would like In the Center Party, we strive for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, to have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that holds both professional culture and amateur creation. There is also room for a broad cultural life that includes new digital expressions as well as traditional cultural forms. This will also create a broad breeding ground for formation. Civil society, where cultural associations, sport, outdoor life and education exist, plays a major role in keeping our society together and is a major and important contribution to further development. That is why we also see from the Center Party that we need to give civil society better conditions on a broad front. An important part of a functioning civil society is the freedom needed to develop and contribute. Public education has an important role in which we must not go in and steer too much from politics. We can set goals for peoples' education, but how to achieve the goals must peoples' education itself be allowed to develop. It is also civil society actors who are often fast in place when there is a need for cooperation between people. Among other things, we could see this when, for a period of time, many people sought refuge in our country. Then civil society organisations were first and fastest in place. And we see it now when support is needed to get into our society. Then there is the sports club, the district farm association and the local district association on site. There are also peoples' education and the cultural association – to name but a few of all civil society actors. However, it is important that we give public attention and support to the important efforts of civil society. There are problems that need to be taken seriously. For example, there are problems with project grants at the expense of basic support that make operations difficult to control and can hinder the development of activities. It must also be made easier not only to rely on public funds. You should also be able to create your own revenue. Madam President, I would like We see how Sweden risks being split even more by the fact that the conditions for a good life deteriorate in smaller towns. From the Center Party we are fighting against this split. A clear example is the increase in VAT on the cinema ticket that took place during the last parliamentary term. Already then we marked clearly against this from the Center Party, and the Riksdag also gave an announcement to the government to reinstate the VAT rate on the cinema ticket. The increase in VAT on the cinema ticket threatens culture in rural areas and in smaller towns, as the cinema in many places can no longer continue to operate. Of course, VAT on the cinema ticket must be restored, but during the time it takes to do so, the effects of the high VAT rate must be slowed down quickly. The mission given by the Government to the Swedish Film Institute has not worked in this context. From the Center Party, we want to use this resource directly for rural cinemas via the cultural cooperation model. It is in the municipalities, on the spot, that one sees the effect of the government's cinema policy and understands how it can be alleviated. It cannot be alleviated by the Swedish Film Institute at Gärdet in Stockholm. For us in the Center Party, culture is something that should be accessible to everyone. That is why we want state cultural institutions to spread their activities throughout the country. We also want to develop the cooperation model for regional culture and, among other things, set up a system for a national Capital of Culture year. Greater support for assembly facilities is also important, particularly in rural and remote areas. It opens up the possibility for more people to take part in and participate in different types of cultural events. Access to broadband throughout the country is also a very important factor in the possibility of both sharing and creating culture on your own wherever you live. The effect of the Center Party policy will be that more people will have access to culture. It also contributes to participation and a society that stays together. It also provides better conditions for greater cultural diversity and creativity. Madam President, I would like The commitment that thrives in cultural life and in civil society associations is important to bring our society together. In the Center Party's vision, everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that embraces both professional culture and amateur creation. Culture, sport and association engagement strengthen people's self-confidence and also make more use of freedom of expression. In short, it strengthens participation and democracy in our society. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to refer to the Special Opinion of the Center Party.
i-4082462800771aed-151	Madam President, I would like This autumn has certainly been unusual on a political level, and many unusual events have taken place for Swedish politics. The question, however, is whether the budgetary process is currently tops the strange list. It would have been reasonable to allow the formation of government to be completed before defining economic policy. That is why the Left Party has chosen not to present its own budget, but to vote last week on the transitional budget, not because it contained our wish-seeking policy, but because it was the right thing to do in order to avoid diluting the difficult situation in which the country finds itself. We will now have a situation in which the transitional government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party will try to govern from the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It will not be easy because those who have submitted the draft budget themselves hardly know what the proposals mean and how they are to be implemented. A month after M's and KD's prime minister candidate, and with that their government option, was voted down, they still see to it that they can start closing down authorities and dismiss people. They stop climate action and construction of cheap rentals. Apparently it can't wait. It is not a question of showing the voters their policies. This could have been done with one's own budget movements. No, when you go together in this way you do so in confidence that the Swedish Democrats could support them. I don't see any other reason. It's a pure power demonstration. Now the Swedish people can see that parts of the former Alliance can get through a budget, but they wanted to show that they are responsible, state-supporting parties they have completely screwed up. In ministries, government agencies, municipal houses and regional offices, employees and elected representatives are now scratching their heads. The same is true of many private companies. How long are these decisions supposed to last? Should you advertise new positions? Is there any point in getting a heads-up? You're gonna quit people? Should a contract be terminated? Should you dare to invest? The fact that the Swedish democrats take the chance to make a mess does not surprise me, but I thought there were more responsible politicians elsewhere, albeit with many bad political proposals. We are now debating Category 17, which includes appropriations in a wide range of areas, such as culture, sport, religious communities, non-profit associations, education and the media. Looking at money, it is not a very heavy area, but when you look at how much joy, knowledge, social benefits, hope, excitement and education it gives people in our country every day it is priceless efforts. As has been said, neither the cultural sector nor the society as a whole are wallowing in money. Nevertheless, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats want to cut expenditure. This will be less than SEK 213 million from 1 January. It is clear that they have very little ambition in the field of culture. In the individual motions, the Moderates cut 228 million, the Swedish Democrats nearly 419 million and the Christian Democrats 872.5 million compared to the proposal put forward in the transitional budget. Perhaps in Kultursverige you should be happy that in the end there were only cuts of 213 million. Sport, however, has a slight increase in funding. Of course, some area of expenditure needs to be stepped up when you want to make major tax cuts. That's it. The bourgeois parties put forward traditional right-wing politics: more to those who are already in the best position. Apparently, those who earn over $2,000 a month need a little more. If the difference is only a little bigger between those who have a job and those who are not, the unemployed and the sick will realise that it would be nice to have a job instead of support, unemployment benefit or compensation from Försäkringskassan. And those who are only hourly or working half-time will pick up the phone and call their bosses and say: Apparently, with the latest job tax deduction in the new budget, it pays off. Does anyone really believe that this works in real life? Madam President, I would like While spending money on high-income earners, this debate seeks to argue that it is necessary to remove 100 million from the cultural school and ultimately 80 million from the museums because it is investments that are most beneficial to rich municipalities and high-income families. This is strange, to say the least. Absurt is the word that comes to me. Madam President, I would like In fact, among the largest cultural consumers in Sweden are the highly educated and, to a large extent, the highly paid. Should the Left Party as an equalist party ignore cultural efforts? After all, it seems to be just going to completely the wrong groups. They're not our voters. Should we act like that? No, we're not saying that rich people can still afford to pay their theater and museum visits themselves. We see that an active cultural policy is needed. The policy of the Left Party is about enabling more people to take part in culture. We believe that it is important for people and for society at large. It is also in line with the national objectives of cultural policy which say that we should promote everyone's opportunity for cultural experiences, for education and for developing their creative abilities. This has been stated by the Riksdag. For this very reason, the Left Party, together with the government, made an effort on the cultural schools during the last parliamentary term. We saw that they needed to work more actively to bring in children and young people from different backgrounds. The municipalities have really appreciated this addition. We have heard in previous posts that 85 per cent of municipalities have applied for this support. Since the cultural schools are different in different parts of the country, the support has been designed to enable the municipalities' own different initiatives. Some have reduced the fees. Others have worked to welcome children with disabilities, as they have been strongly under-represented in the business. A third category is municipalities that have opened branches or moved to new locations, such as primary schools or residential areas where few children have come into contact with the cultural school before. Another way to attract new groups has been an increased range of courses. A total of 5 400 new seats have been created. My hope now is that the municipalities will manage to keep these seats so that all the thousands of children involved will not have to get a no on the next semester application. Madam President, I would like The second major cut in culture concerns state museums. In this area too, the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party joined forces during the last term of office in order to allow more people to take part in culture. It is an important principle for me that our common cultural heritage is made accessible to all. Just as it is free to visit the country's library and take advantage of knowledge there, we are all entitled, regardless of the thickness of the wallet, to the knowledge bank that the museums constitute. Digitisation is a part, and free admission is another important element of accessibility. When the alliance government removed the free entrance last, the number of visitors decreased by 1.7 million. Of course, children and young people are also affected when adults start paying because they rarely go by themselves. That goes without saying. The fact that most state museums are located in Stockholm cannot be helped. When new museums are planned, it is of course important to think about locations elsewhere in the country. It is also important to stress that the state spends money on regional museums, through the cultural cooperation model, which makes it easier for them to have free admission. Had the Moderates and Christian Democrats been seriously concerned that these two efforts would not reach the right target groups, they would have been able to design their own new initiatives that they believe would better reach these groups, and they could have redistributed the money instead of cutting back. If they do not have their own ideas, for example, the 40 million to culture in socio-economically weak areas could be left, but they also remove them. No, I have to say, unfortunately, that even when there is a thin transitional budget that is supposed to only keep the existing or decided activities going, M, KD and SD are not able to match the figures for the cultural budget. This clearly shows that we urgently need a government with completely different parties to shoulder responsibility for the country's cultural policy. We in the Left Party today refrain from taking part in the decision on the framework for appropriations and refer to our specific opinion, but we call for the committee's proposal to be approved on other points.
i-4082462800771aed-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for your speech. I had hoped to hear what the Left Party wants with culture in Sweden and in the municipalities, but it was unfortunately very bitter. I'm sorry to hear that. I would like to comment on this with the cultural school, just as I did after Mr Redar's speech. This is based on the fact that the red parties do not have confidence in their municipal representatives. I find it remarkable to sound out that children and young people are losers in our budget. It's pure red horror propaganda. We contribute SEK 3 1⁄2 billion to Kommunsverige. The municipalities can then give priority to their children and young people, their elderly or just the needs of the municipality. You paint a horror picture: that children who attend cultural school in Sweden will not be allowed to keep their seats. It's going to be the other way around. Now the municipalities can invest in what they want and do it according to their own conditions. It looks very different in Sweden. In my municipality, Flen municipality, it looks different than in Nacka municipality. Having government subsidies under control is some sort of von oben-think: that we in this House know best what people in the municipalities need. You have always had a fondness for government subsidies, because then you can also steer politically towards the goals you have set. That is exactly the case with state grants to the cultural school. I will come back to that in my speech. They are directed towards goals that mean that you have to put the business in a special way out in the municipalities in order to be able to take part of the money. There is, of course, a political thought in that. But we don't see it that way. We have great confidence in our municipal representatives and will continue to do so.
i-4082462800771aed-182	Madam President, I would like As far as the ambitions of the Left Party are concerned, of course, we have a comprehensive catalogue of proposals in the field of culture. But I was trying to tell you that this is not the time right now. This is what I regret. It may sound bitter, but we have been working on the process of government formation for a long time now. We appealed – there were many parties involved in the discussions – to allow the transitional budget to roll on, so that the authorities can continue to work, and not to mess it up in the way we think you are doing now. I understand that one is eager to show one's politics, but that could have been done by the Moderates without joining the Christian Democrats. That's what I was after. I think we showed our politics in the election movement quite recently. Then we had a chance to talk about our politics. Now we have to get a government in place. Then that government can present its policy, and if it is in opposition, it shows its cultural policy in an opposition budget and so on. That's what we're talking about. Then there are targeted state subsidies. I've been a local politician for many years. I've been sitting on that chair and I don't always think there's a need for targeted state subsidies. General government grants can be great. However, voluntary activities, such as cultural schools, have been lagging behind for many years. When I listen to you, Lotta Finstorp, it sounds like you don't want the state and the nationally appointed politicians to be in charge. But why should we have national targets in any area at all? It is clear that the politicians of the Riksdag will ensure that we have an equivalence in terms of the supply of culture throughout the country. That's our role. And you certainly don't have to apply for these grants if you don't want to, unless you think you need them. As I described in my speech, there was a great deal of openness for the municipalities to design their own efforts, but the ambition of the state – from the government and the Left Party – has been to bring more children into the cultural school.
i-4082462800771aed-186	Madam President, I would like There's a difference. Culture school is a voluntary activity. If it had been a compulsory activity in the municipalities, it would have been possible, in my opinion, to have national targets. That's what we have for other school activities. However, setting national targets for voluntary activities becomes strange, and it becomes difficult for those who have voluntary activities in their municipalities. I would also like to say something about free admission for adults to state museums, which you protect and which you introduced in 2016. We removed it in 2007. Politically, priority must be given to the money you have to deal with. We think that adults must be able to pay their entrance to the 18 state museums in Sweden, of which 14 are in Stockholm County. So it's tourists, and it's adults. They must be able to pay for this themselves.
i-4082462800771aed-188	Madam President, I would like We can start with the museums. Obviously, entrance fees are a threshold for many people. When the free entrance was removed, the number of visitors decreased. The statistics from Kulturanalyst show that it is not only locals and tourists, but it is visitors from all over the country, although it is of course easier for those closest to them. But of course this is the case when it comes to a family that is going to a museum: The entrance cost for adults can cause you to cancel visits or make visits less often. You miss exhibitions, because you may not be able to walk more than once a year. Especially if you have a larger family, you have many other expenses, and then you may not be able to prioritise a museum visit. That is what we see in the statistics. It is the wealthy in Sweden who make the most of our cultural institutions. We have a policy to break this. We want to bring a wide range of young people into the cultural school and to cultural education aimed at older children. That is what our whole policy is based on.
i-4082462800771aed-191	Madam President, I would like Vasiliki Tsouplaki is one of the left-wing parties who, I believe, have an incredibly pleasant and constructive style of debate, and I think everyone has the pleasure of doing so in here. I would like to begin by commenting on the issue of accessibility of cultural heritage, which Mr Vasiliki mentioned in his speech. A free-entry reform for adults in 18 state museums, primarily in Stockholm, has been developed in the past. No matter how you look at it, there is much to suggest that it is the same groups that go there regardless of whether this exists or not. We've heard that just now. This was the basis and reason why the Swedish Democrats also said no to the free-entry reform. But Tsouplaki, in any case against the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, mentioned that if you say no to the free-entry reform, you should come up with something else, some matching reform or the like. I would therefore like to hear how the Left Party views the reform presented by the Swedish Democrats a couple of years ago that has just matched the free-entry reform. It is called Open Museums and is among the new appropriations in the expenditure area exercise. Does it help to present other reforms? This is, of course, a reform that should come to museums regardless of the principal, regardless of the country and whatever the needs. It doesn't always have to be about entrances. There may be other important needs in the country. Why does the Left Party say no to Open Museums?
i-4082462800771aed-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for your question! I don't think fees are everything-- we can actually say that. We see this, for example, in the field of cultural education. It has not helped just to reduce charges, but also to do other things. I think a lot of our museums also need to work on finding new groups and inviting new groups in different ways. I think that's important. However, it cannot be ignored that charges are still a threshold. Then the question is whether we should settle for the state museums. I understand that's what you're after. Do we need to do more? I think we need to do more and that the cultural collaboration model is a good and well-established model to work on. It is important to ensure that there is more money in that model, so that regions can give priority to free entry into their cultural plans when they have the opportunity. In order to re-emphasise the discussion we had last time on the autonomy of municipalities and regions, I think that we can think about this when making the regional cultural plan. Should we have free entrance in our region? Then we'll put it in the plan, and the government can make the money. I think this is a good way to go. Then it may be that not enough people give priority to it, and then we will have to discuss it. But I am no stranger to opening up in various ways even municipal and regional museums to an even greater extent for free admission. I think that would be very good.
i-4082462800771aed-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, which I am somewhat pleased about. As Mr Vasiliki himself mentioned, there is a problem in the model of cultural cooperation, whether you stop resources there. The problem, which has been with since before, is that there can be a bit of a black-pecker game about resources. Different regions prioritise differently, and the intention of the national level suffers, if that is precisely the perspective we want to get to. Then I think it's not really just about free entrance, so to speak, because the needs are very different. It can be a foundation that runs a small museum or has a small collection. It can be regional, municipal or to some extent private principals. It may be that you need climate action for storage, archives etc. It may be that you need to develop museum education by turning to schools, inviting schools, being in the classrooms and so on. What I am reflecting on is whether there might be a need for a broader reform whatever its purpose.
i-4082462800771aed-203	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party have exercised to investigate how you could work even closer between museums and school activities. I think that would be great. I saw fine examples in Denmark when I was there on a study visit a few years ago. They had an authority that specifically worked to produce educational material for the museums' exhibitions. It was a very interesting job. There is certainly more to be done there. I believe that we will have reason to discuss these issues more in the future in order to make cultural heritage really accessible. As I said, it is an important matter of principle that it is open and free of charge. It is our common cultural heritage, and it needs to be clear to our citizens that it is free to visit our museums. This ping-pong back and forth, with free admission every second term, I think is detrimental to the activities of museums. They find it difficult to focus on their mission when they have to change things this way all the time.
i-4082462800771aed-205	I would like to remind Members that we use both first names and last names and do not duke each other in the seats.
i-4082462800771aed-206	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a difficult parliamentary situation. Despite several attempts, there is no government in place yet. On top of everything, the disaster budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats was voted through on Wednesday with the active support of the Swedish Democrats. The budget drawn up quickly hits the environment and climate, gender equality and culture hard. It is becoming increasingly clear what the policy of the right-wing parties is like: reducing taxes on the rich. The consequences are growing gaps in society, more children growing up in poverty, poorer conditions for women and less culture for children and young people, and people with a weak economy. That makes me very worried. Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Culture. The committee decided on the matter even though it was less than two days from the date on which it was dealt with. The deteriorations proposed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats are, of course, rejected by the Green Party. We do not take part in the decision on the spending framework, but refer to our specific opinion. It is now widely known that the free entrance to state museums is being withdrawn. The question is why charges should be introduced again when we know that the number of visits increased by 32% in the first year. They attracted more visitors who did not have the habit of going to museums. Being able to take part in our common cultural heritage and see collections and exhibitions is only part of the experience. Thanks to free admission, museums have become a kind of open room that the public can use in different ways. It is enough to go to the National Museum to see what an inspiring and lively environment it has become. The visitors make a daily pilgrimage there. They can choose to watch fantastic art collections in world class, participate in workshops, coffee in the café and botanize in the shop. After the turn of the year, it will cost a family several hundred cents to visit, which will, of course, exclude them with a weaker economy. According to the Ministry of Culture, this decision will most likely lead to fewer visitors. When free admission was abolished in 2007, the number of visits decreased by nearly 1.7 million. There are also practical consequences. There will be a need for reconstruction, new cashier and ticketing systems and staff to manage them. The increased costs are likely to affect other parts of the business, such as the possibility of new exhibitions. It is not serious for the right-wing parties to change the conditions in this way in all haste and without dialogue with the museums. Madam President, I would like Worse still, the entire 100 million state aid to the cultural school is being drawn in. The national cultural policy objectives identify a group as particularly important: children and young people. Both Moderates and Christian Democrats know that. Yet they choose to cut down. It is incredibly short-sighted to cut down on children's culture. Already in the first year of state aid, 2016, more than 5,000 places were created in cultural schools around the country. Without a doubt, the school of culture has made a big difference to many people in our country. Often it is said that the culture school has contributed strongly to the successful Swedish music exports. But the most important thing is that more children, not fewer, will have better opportunities to test their wings, stand on stage, play an instrument, paint or film. We know that access to and participation in the cultural school's activities vary depending on where in the country you live and what parents you have. A recent report from the University of Gothenburg confirms once again that children with socio-economically favourable background find their way to the cultural school. The typical participant is a girl with well-educated parents who are culturally active. In order to increase equality, the Environmental Party has invested 100 million per year in the cultural school since 2016. It is a flexible support that municipalities are given the opportunity to use based on their own needs. They can reach new groups, invest in efforts for young people with functional variations, expand the range or expand their activities. The Moderates and Christian Democrats claim that the reform has been expensive and ineffective, but that is not true. 85 per cent of Swedish municipalities apply for and use the grant. The need is great, and tens of thousands of new student places in the country are now at risk of disappearing. It's nothing but a killing blow against children's and young people's culture. I fear that inequality will increase and that many children will miss out on the opportunity to try their wings in the field of art and culture. Madam President, I would like This saving is just the beginning. Right now it stops at SEK 213 million. But the Christian Democrats really wanted to make a drastic cut of as much as SEK 872 million. They had planned, among other things, to reduce compensation and grants to artists by 60 million, to reduce film support by 182 million and to reduce contributions to public education by 159 million and to remove the strengthening of library activities throughout the country. This is where the ideological difference becomes particularly clear: The Red-Green Government highly values the ideal of education while the Christian Democrats show great disinterest in the formation. What worries me even more is the question when the Moderates and Christian Democrats begin to give in to demands from the Swedish Democrats in the field of culture. The Swedish Democrats are not like other parties. They want to change Sweden fundamentally. According to them, the new objective of cultural policy is to strengthen national identity and cohesion. The goal will be achieved by introducing a Swedish cultural cannon in school, introducing special Swedish centres to teach foreign-born Swedish cultural heritage and ensuring that the Swedish music works will spread the Swedish musical heritage. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the conditions for free art and phase out tax-funded support for immigrant associations as well as sports support that goes to the government's efforts on integration measures in exclusion areas. As if it were not enough, they are opposed to local support to create meeting places run by associations in socio-economically vulnerable areas. It is clear that the culture of the Swedish Democrats is a tool for raising children and young people in the nationalist spirit and guiding adults in the same direction. This is where the rest of us must protest strongly against a cultural policy that restricts free thinking and freedom of opinion. We will continue to fight for people's access to culture, knowledge and education because it is a prerequisite for the maintenance of liberal democracy. I would like to conclude by quoting Stina Oscarsson: a longing for freedom goes beyond borders and will always be greater than institutions and parties. .....................................................
i-6cdBJcQHEfnzRo5h44pfyR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Sibinska, for your speech. It would have been interesting to hear what the Green Party thinks about culture and what initiatives you would like to make. I've only heard the criticism of all the other parties. It's a great sin! I really look forward to hearing what the red-green parties want with regard to culture in Sweden. I strongly oppose what Anna Sibinska says about manslaughter against the children's culture. Why does Anna Sibinska not lift up the extra 3 1⁄2 billion that we will invest in the municipalities? In a few weeks' time, municipalities will have this supplement to deal with themselves, to give priority to themselves. Why should environmental partners not want to invest in children's and young people's culture in the municipalities?
i-4082462800771aed-224	Madam President, I would like I started by saying that Sweden is in a difficult parliamentary situation. We don't have a government in place yet. We have had a transitional government, and we have developed common guidelines on how best to deal with the situation so that the important institutions of the country can continue to function. That is why we have presented a transitional budget. It's not a wish budget on our part. It's actually a repetition of all the investments we've made in 2018. This is in order to give the incoming government the opportunity to show what policy it will pursue and to give the new government the opportunity to table an amending budget. As far as cultural school is concerned, I must say it's a manslaughter battle. There have been many new places in the cultural school around the country, and even if you allocate funds to municipalities and county councils, it is not certain that they will be used for the cultural school because the cultural school is a voluntary activity in the municipalities. In my municipality of Gothenburg, the Alliance withdrew from the cultural school with almost 2 1⁄2 million out of the 4 million people who had received support from the state. It will affect a great many activities in the municipality.
i-4082462800771aed-228	Madam President, I would like As I said, it would have been interesting to hear what the Green Party's cultural policy looks like. But we must not do that here; we must hear everything that is bad about all the other budgets. In my opinion, there is a lack of confidence on the part of the red-green parties: they do not believe that the municipal representatives want to highlight their cultural school activities. It is incredibly good and important, and the state-run grants have contributed between 0.25% and about 2% to the cultural school budget that each municipality has made. Why should we not want to use some of the 31⁄2 billion that we will set aside in a few weeks' time? If I were a municipal representative in a red-green municipality, I would be very upset that you do not have faith in me but should steer from this House over voluntary activities that are municipal.
i-4082462800771aed-231	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp knows as well as I do that the study on the cultural school showed great inequality in the country. That is why our government has taken the initiative to support cultural schools with the extra development money. Then it is up to the municipalities to decide how to use the money. We also know that the cultural school currently does not even exist in all municipalities. I do not believe that the money that you are sending comes just or just cultural school. There are many other issues that municipalities should work on. Therefore, support from the national level is needed to develop the cultural school so that more children can participate. It is our policy – that more people should be able to participate and create.
i-36VQZMhtpiNDQuhRLjP2zm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Sibinska, for your speech. I am reacting to the image of us who have presented this budget, Moderates and Christian Democrats, such as those who do not care about children or young people. You paint a picture that we're almost a little evil people who want bad and so on and that we don't have a sense of children and young people and their development. I worked before coming to Parliament ten years in an organisation called the Gothenburg Rescue Mission. Among other things, we worked with children and parents who had relatives who were in prison. We called it Sunflower. I can promise that it left its mark on me to work for children and young people, especially those who live in socio-economic vulnerability. I'd like to ask you a question about the extracurricular allowance. There is a proposal that we have, which we intend to reintroduce, and it is called leisure money. It is SEK 3 000 for children living in families with support. You're supposed to have done it for six months out of the last 12 months. These SEK 3 000 should be used for, for example, tuition fees to the cultural school, membership fees to a sports club and so on. This is what the Green Party and the red - green section of the Assembly reject. I wonder what makes the Green Party also object to the extracurricular allowance of SEK 3 000 for children in vulnerable families.
i-4082462800771aed-237	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the purpose of my speech was to show the consequences of your policies for children and young people and for those who want to visit museums. Children will also be affected. A ten-year-old can't go to a museum on his own. He has to bring an adult with him. If you have a bad economy, you might not be able to come. This will affect many families with a weak economy. It's the same with the equivalence of the whole country. It will deteriorate. All our efforts during our term of office have been intended, among other things, to increase equality, increase supply, improve children and young people with functional variations and so on. I think we can meet there. However, on the issue of a leisure allowance of SEK 3 000, we are in favour of having general grants and not pointing out individuals. We don't think that's the way to go.
i-4082462800771aed-240	Madam President, I would like Every time I raise this issue, as I have done a number of times here, there is talk of general welfare. General welfare is good, but it does not reach the most vulnerable children: those living in families with support. These are children in grades 4 to 9, who could have an opportunity to pay tuition fees to the cultural school, among other things. There's a lot to say about culture school, so I might have to get back to it. But I want you to take another round with your side. I believe that, if you look at the proposal, there is an understanding of leisure money. So please look at it, and I hope we can get back to culture school because time is not enough.
i-4082462800771aed-242	Madam President, I would like Roland Utbolt mentioned Solrosen, which has a fantastic business. I know it well, too. Civil society is making a major contribution for children and young people who are growing up under difficult conditions. In Gothenburg and Västra Götaland we have also made a major and general investment in El Sistema, where the purpose is to reach children who do not have musical parents or who do not intend to apply for a place in the cultural school. It is about reaching new groups, and it has been very successful. To go that way, to invest more in El Sistema and build similar infrastructure throughout the country, I think will support children and young people more than leisure money.
i-4082462800771aed-244	With a certain perseverance, I remind Members that we do not use you, but both the first and last names in the speaker's chair.
i-4082462800771aed-245	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals and for reservations to be rejected. Art and culture help us to understand ourselves and the person we meet. This cannot be repeated enough. They teach us to relate to our present and to deal with our future, which is common. We live in a troubled time, with contradictions that are growing both in Sweden and beyond the country's borders. It is a difficult time to interpret, in which old political truths and thought patterns are called into question. It is a time when democracy itself is being called into question, our democracy which today turns 100 and which we must protect and promote every day. This is where culture's ideals of education, freedom and inherent power come in. For remember one thing: Knowledge and education is the best vaccine mankind knows against intolerance, prejudice and lies. Madam President, I would like In the budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we are putting forward a stable basis for all the different areas included in Category 17. Our budget covers 15.7 billion, but we do not promise everything to everyone but are honest in our political priorities. Our commitment to library work towards schools in order to reach children from socio-economically weak environments is one such thing. These are children from homes where neither filled bookshelves, pianos nor regular visits to various cultural institutions are obvious elements. Culture belongs to everyone and unites everyone. Mom and Dad's economic conditions, or for that matter cultural habits, should not prevent young people from taking part in culture in a broad sense. Our initiative is a reinforcement of the school and of the library's compensatory assignments. Politics is also daring and able to prioritise. For example, we remove the investment in free admission to state museums. Children and adolescents up to 19 years of age should continue to enter for free. Annicka Engblom will talk more about this. For us, it is more important to invest in children and young people from more vulnerable environments. Culture also belongs to them, and I know from experience after my years in social services what culture and sport can mean in a young person's life. They become particularly important when the surrounding environment does not provide, or is unable to provide, sufficient conditions. Therefore, efforts on the needs of children and young people in particular must always be based on the local level. Sweden's municipalities have different challenges. Madam President, I would like Therefore, in our state budget, we provide Sweden's municipalities, regions and county councils with additional resources to cope with the growing costs. We provide resources in a first step: We increase the resources for welfare by SEK 5 billion to Sweden's municipalities, regions and county councils. The municipalities thus receive a supplement of 3.5 billion. This is money that is not earmarked or directed by us at national level. No, this is money that the municipalities can spend on the priorities that they want and need to do, based on the needs of their populations. The municipal cultural school can be such an activity. Experience shows that a high-quality cultural school is a success variable for municipalities that want to strengthen social inclusion, migration and growth. Cultural schools have a very good business — I and many other parents can testify to that. We Moderates and Christian Democrats say no to the reform with targeted government financial support for the work of municipal cultural schools. This is part of the Social Democratically led transitional government's ambition to increase the government's governance of the municipal cultural schools, which is also a voluntary activity. The clearest example of this is the proposal for a national strategy for cultural schools, which came in March 2018, where the government has set state targets for something that is essentially voluntary municipal activities. It states that it will be clearer what state grants to municipal cultural schools should contribute to. That's how you top control voluntary community activities. The Moderates have been and are critical of this. Sweden's 290 municipalities are different, and their cultural schools look, and will see, different. Difference is not a problem; it is an asset. Culture should be free from political infinity. We simply do not believe in the idea that cultural schools should increasingly be run from Stockholm. Madam President, I would like Objectives and targeted state financial contributions are always by definition governing. As the debate on the state contribution is loud and not always balanced, I would like to dwell on this, that is to say, the SEK 100 million from which cultural schools can apply today. This contribution was introduced in 2016 by the then government. These are annual grants that cultural schools can apply for on the basis of certain parameters. From the beginning, the grant was intended to reduce the fees for pupils in cultural schools. According to the Swedish Arts Council, which has granted the grants during these three years, only six municipalities have received grants to reduce their fees. Therefore, the grant was redeployed. From 2017, the grant has been used primarily for cultural schools to try out new art forms, reach new target groups and work outreach. 85 per cent of all municipalities in the country have ever applied for the cultural school grant. Seven municipalities have no municipal cultural school. We must also bear this in mind. If the grants are as managed as they have been from the state level, it can be inhibiting for municipalities that want to start their own cultural schools. Moreover, the contributions are annual, and there is a lot of criticism against them. It becomes very hateful when you can only apply for one year at a time, as we have talked about in this House, and it is also not certain that it is permanent, or perhaps you have chosen not to. I have looked at how much people have taken part in relation to their own cultural school budget. I've mentioned that in previous lines. This varies from less than 0.25% up to about 2% of the municipal budget of cultural schools. If all 290 municipalities were to apply, the SEK 100 million would be approximately SEK 330 000 per municipality. This corresponds to half a pedagogy service including social security contributions. Instead, if you take 3 1⁄2 billion and divide it directly into 290 municipalities – as you know, you divide by population and so on – there is 12 million per municipality. This can be put in relation to the previous figure. We maintain the 25 million for competence development and research for the cultural schools' activities. Let me mention something about the reform of the Creative School, which the Alliance Government introduced and which is a very welcome part of the compulsory school. Cultural workers work on site. After all, there are all children and young people there on a daily basis. It reaches all children, and above all those children and young people who are not reached by the culture through parents. For 2019, SEK 187 million will be allocated to Creative School. I would also like to mention that we want to build a step-by-step approach to the work of libraries, so that children and young people in socio-economically vulnerable areas can benefit from the library offering. Then let us not forget that our tax policy also gives people with low incomes and average incomes more money in their wallets. When you have less money in your wallet, it is often culture and sport that you cannot afford to invest in. Now people get more money in their wallet, and then they can also go to more cultural and sports activities. I see my speaking time is running out. I could have talked a long time about our cultural budget, but I thank you very much for so long.
i-4082462800771aed-267	Madam President, I would like I want to start by going into the analysis made by Lotta Finstorp regarding the cultural school. It is true that the Red-Green Government initiated an investigation. The cultural school activities themselves had been asking for such an investigation for a long time, not least in our own municipalities. It is not true that we do not have strong confidence in our municipal politicians – it is exactly the opposite. But when they ask for an investigation or a national overview of the reality, it is clear that we are trying to comply with it. The study came to some interesting conclusions: Over 40 000 children and young people are waiting for a cultural school place, the need for skills is large and extensive and there is a high demand for developed activities to reach even more children and young people. It is also true that the discussion about the grant did not come to be about whether to increase or reduce funding, because there was another need that it would cover, namely a widening of the field of art, inclusion and accessibility for more groups and an educational development that very many have asked for. Over 85 per cent of municipalities have applied for this grant, which has developed and expanded the sites. When Lotta Finstorp says that it is still not so expensive and that you do not get much out of it you still hear the criticism outside. Over the last few days, several educators have talked in the media about how many places have to be closed and how significant these efforts have been. What have you really thought about this, Lotta Finstorp? If it is not expensive, why withdraw 100 million dollars from all these activities?
i-4082462800771aed-271	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Lawen Redar! It goes without saying that the municipalities must be left to decide for themselves. For us, it is also an ideological idea. Municipal self-government is incredibly important. Those heard today in the debate are, I would say, incited by allegations that cultural schools will be closed. Those who are not heard are the ones who say: Thankfully, we will now have more municipal money for our cultural school, rather than having government subsidies in one year at a time! There is also criticism from the Swedish Arts Council that the grants have been one year old. Couldn't you at least have made suggestions that they would be three years old? But that's not the case. Very short-term efforts have been made. The fact that people are to be employed in one-year projects is not something that you red-greens are pushing in the debate on labour law. Short-term project employment benefits from this: you get half-times and have to add up various services, because government subsidies last only for one year. Now the municipalities have the opportunity to do something better. It would have been a different thing if I had stood here and said: We have removed 100 million, that 中 s it! But we're adding money to the municipalities. We add money, and they can decide for themselves over their cultural schools and the money they receive. Then I hear from the red-greens in the debate that there are many other holes to put money in out in the municipalities. Absolutely, but a good cultural school business is a gold mine. Opening it to more students based on what it looks like in the municipalities is the best thing you can do.
i-4082462800771aed-275	Madam President, I would like I'm from Stockholm. There we have a blue-green constellation that governs, and we realise that it is primarily in cultural policy that cuts are made. This homage to the fact that cultural funding in the municipalities will increase and that the cultural school will be strengthened, I feel very doubtful, because I see a completely different reality, not least for the children and young people who grow up in Järva, the residential area where I live. The Cultural School will reduce the number of seats in Stockholm. It's the greatest fear. There is also no answer at the moment to how to manage the supply of skills or that 40 000 children and young people in our country are waiting to get a cultural school place. This was a way of increasing the number of places. It was a way to manage the supply of skills where the municipalities themselves had to apply for money and specify how they would be used. I regret that this is something that has been removed from the budget.
i-4082462800771aed-278	Madam President, I would like The 25 million for skills supply is still there, if that's what we're talking about here. We cannot talk about how the municipalities choose to prioritise in this House. We can't write anyone on their nose that they're doing it wrong. Out in the municipalities, they themselves have to give priority to how they want to use the money we provide. I expect them to be used for children and young people, because it would look strange otherwise. That's where there's a lot of holes in the municipalities after the four years you've run the country. Finally, I would like to say that I have full confidence in our municipal politicians in the country. Everyone who has a cultural school is very proud. New groups have been opened up, which they have reached out to, but this is not because they have received 0.25% of the state. It is, of course, work that should be done anyway. Now you also get the addition and can choose to do this permanently.
i-4082462800771aed-280	Madam President, I would like When we talked about the cultural school in the election movement, there were many representatives of the Arts School Council and other debate organisers who asked us politicians questions and were worried when they saw what, among other things, the Moderates' budget options had looked like over the years. Now the bets had started, and they were worried: What will happen if you win the election? What will happen then? Then the Moderates and other bourgeois representatives said that they did not have to worry, because there is a difference between being against a grant when it is introduced and then removing it when you gain power. We probably won't do that, was their answer to many of the questions that came up in the election campaign. I find it sad that it was just election rhetoric and that they now choose to remove, among other things, the funding for cultural schools. Now Lotta Finstorp has heard several speakers today talking about the 5 400 new seats. We have talked about how new groups have been reached with the cultural school initiative. Then I wonder if Lotta Finstorp and the Moderates might still think that this has done something good out in the municipalities. My question is: Can Lotta Finstorp see that the contribution to the cultural schools has been positive for children's and young people's cultural practices around the country?
i-4082462800771aed-283	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The 100 million would not have been removed if we had not contributed so much money to the local government sector. This is what is happening now: we are adding money so that the municipalities can decide for themselves. If you have had good outreach activities with the percentages or per mille that have gone to certain cultural schools and municipalities, where you have had such activities, you must be able to spend municipal money on this yourself because you get an addition of money from the state that is not earmarked. As for what you heard in the election campaign, Vasiliki Tsouplaki: Absolutely! The money would have remained there if we had not managed to make a budget where we add a lot of money to the local government sector.
i-4082462800771aed-286	Madam President, I would like It is interesting when we talk about targeted or not targeted grants to the municipalities. What you have left now, Lotta Finstorp, of the 25 million to the libraries that I think it was from the beginning is a clear targeted initiative to the municipalities in an activity that you think the municipalities should prioritise. Now there are 5 million left in this venture, and it is such a small sum that for most municipalities it becomes more jobs and burdensome to apply for the money at all. You can both have and lose such a small sum, almost. I think that goes a little contrary to what you say – that you do not want targeted state subsidies. It was a comment on this. Then I wonder if you can see any problem with the fact that there will be a great deal of uncertainty among municipalities, regions and authorities about what will apply when we now have a budget set by a government option that has recently been voted down. As I described in my previous speech, there will be great uncertainty as to how long it will last. Wouldn't it be better to make proposals when we have a government in place?
i-4082462800771aed-289	Madam President, I would like How long the budget will last is written in the stars. No one knows when we have a government in place and what that government will look like. We have gone to elections on certain measures, including strengthening the finances of municipalities, and that is exactly what we have in our budget. It is simply to congratulate the municipalities on receiving subsidies compared to the transitional budget. In the case of targeted or untargeted state grants, the cultural school is a voluntary municipal activity. You have to have a library. It is the same when it comes to Creative School, which we are proud that the Alliance Government introduced. It belongs to the compulsory school, and therefore we have directed money to the Creative School and to investments in libraries for vulnerable groups. You might think it's too little money. We would like to see more, but this is a start. We will build on giving libraries more money.
i-4082462800771aed-292	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say something in general about the budgets of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. What do we get with the new budget? Among other things, we get a queue billion to reduce queues in health care, reduced pensioner's tax, more retirement homes, smaller children's groups in preschool and the restoration of LSS. We also receive a gift tax deduction for giving to relief organizations, and we reintroduce leisure money. These are some of the reforms that the budget is about. In order for culture to have increased space, we are all engaged in a struggle, both inside and outside the Riksdag. We shall continue this fight because we know how important culture and the fundamental values of democracy are. Of course, it is not good for culture to stand back for other efforts. It's the same in all parties. Culture is a very small part of the state budget, regardless of who controls it. On a cultural budget of up to 8 billion, it distinguishes 163 million between the government's and Moderate's and KD's budgets. It's barely 2%. Then it should be borne in mind that the red-greens raised the tax by 60 billion. If what in the M-KD budget instead becomes tax cuts for households, which give people increased opportunities to go to concerts, exhibitions and theatre, the culture as a whole benefits. Madam President, I would like In the nonprofit sector, under the heading, we invest an extra 20 million in combating the loneliness of the elderly. For us Christian Democrats, this is important. We would like to highlight the involuntary loneliness of the elderly, that it is a major problem and that broad reforms must be implemented to counter loneliness, which has major health implications for older people. A picture of more people living alone can be seen in funerals. The number of participants in a funeral service has decreased from an average of 49 persons in 1990 to 24 present in 2016. More and more are also buried without ceremony — without a single friend or relative present. In just ten years, the proportion buried so nearly tripled. And in Stockholm almost every tenth funeral takes place in this way, without any friend or relative present, according to figures from the Association of Swedish Funeral Homes. There are today more colors to choose for the coffin, more symbols for the obituary and more ways to design the ceremony than ever before, but fewer and fewer people feel concerned. Without social relationships, it's hard to exist. American researchers in 2010 showed in a large meta-study that involuntary loneliness is as much a risk factor for premature death as smoking. Research at Karolinska Institutet shows that loneliness is directly linked to the brain's pain center. Our cognitive abilities may already be affected by an expectation of future loneliness. Researchers have described loneliness as a chronic stress that wears on the body and the immune system. The body's vessels physically contract in their defenses against this stress, and the increased risk of angina, heart attack, and stroke follows in its tracks. However, civil society activities and, not least, pensioners' organisations are making good efforts to promote community and to combat the loneliness and isolation of older people. In the KD-M budget, we increase the effort by SEK 20 million per year in 2019 – 2021. For us Christian Democrats, civil society is one of the pillars of society – family, non-profit organisations, village teams, church, sports associations and other associations. The non-profit organisations are at the heart of democracy, and their work maintains democratic values and traditions. Madam President, I would like We also have an older lift where physical training for the elderly is highlighted. Sport means community and strengthens people's physical health. The stake will also be increased here in our joint budget by SEK 20 million per year in 2019 – 2021. The elderly lift will aim to give more elderly people the chance of physical activity and training, thereby improving their quality of life, strengthening their health, reducing the risk of falls and giving them the opportunity to get a sense of context. I let one of my favorite authors, Alf Henrikson, describe a perspective of older people's health: For those who used to be younger, they all get heavier. For those who have been small, all the backs are getting worse. For those who become a bastard, all slopes become steeper. People who have had years on their necks have to stretch hard on the slopes. Madam President, I would like It is a huge concern that many children in socio-economically vulnerable families are not reached by the rich variety of culture. A quarter of a million children in Sweden live in poverty. I see it as one of our most common challenges to reach these children. In our budget we have an effort to intervene, i.e. targeted activities, including through the libraries of children and young people. I would like to say that what we Christian Democrats feel most strongly about is the welfare and woe of children and young people.
i-4082462800771aed-304	Madam President, I would like This will be a little bit a favourite in replay. Me and Roland Utbolt have talked about the leisure money several times in the year that I have been sitting here in Parliament. I wonder what Christian Democratic cultural policy we're going to talk about now that you've got your leisure money through, Roland Utbolt. There won't be much left on the list. When we have talked about this before, I have said that I do not really have such strong objections to leisure money, if it is combined with general welfare and good spending on children's and young people's leisure time. The problem is that Roland Utbolt has an overconfidence in this reform. It reaches a very small proportion of children living in families in financial vulnerability. We have previously talked about the statistics from Save the Children which show that about 12% of the children in Sweden are in these families, and I think it is 7% of the children who are in families with income support – that was the number that I drew up the last time we talked about this. You therefore miss a very large part of the target group that you want to benefit with your policy, Roland Utbolt. That's too bad. I'd like to ask you if you know how many families actually used the leisure money the last time it existed. My view is that it has not had such a big impact and that the money can be better spent with general efforts to reduce the fees or even, as the Left Party wants, to remove the fees entirely in the cultural school, so that all children, regardless of their parents' finances, can participate in the business. I will come back in the next line with my second question.
i-4082462800771aed-308	Madam President, I would like I thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for this. I feel that you did not really listen, because I described quite a lot of our policy. It is not just leisure money that we have in our menu. There's so much else. You'll read the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budgets, and you'll see the whole scale. We have an area of expenditure to fill with content and money. I'm looking in my memory for numbers when it comes to leisure money. But I have to admit that I do not have this really updated right now. It can be that with numbers sometimes they fall away. But the important thing for me is that the families with children who have applied for the allowance have lived with the allowance for at least six months in the last 12 months and have children in grades 4 to 9. This means that families with very strained finances may not have the financial means to allow the child to go on a school trip. Parents may not even open the envelope that comes from the municipality that applies to the cultural school they have in the municipality because they have an economy that means that they cannot allow children to participate in it. So this is the reality for many families. As I said, a quarter of a million children live in poverty. If this has not been fully achieved – it may take time for reforms – this is also about information, that the municipality informs better about what the leisure money is about.
i-4082462800771aed-311	Madam President, I would like The problem that I am trying to highlight is that there are very many families with children who live in financial vulnerability but who do not have income support but live on the margins. Maybe they're just getting the economy together or barely that. They do not have support, but they have a very tough situation anyway. This does not help the leisure money, but requires general efforts to remove the fees in the cultural school, to reduce the fees, for example, in sports associations and in the cultural sector in order for children to have a rich leisure time. This debate is a little troubling. It has its challenges. We are actually comparing apples and pears when we talk about the transitional budget and the party movements at the same time. You can spend money here and there and 3 billion dollars on the municipalities, because you do not have to follow the principles of the transitional budget. The transitional budget does not use this scope for reform. You are establishing an economic policy that makes it very difficult for a new government. How do you see it?
i-4082462800771aed-313	Madam President, I would like I thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for this. Almost every time we have these debates, there is talk of general welfare. One argument would be that many people are poor, but not all are reached when only children in families with income support can receive leisure money. I cannot understand why these groups are being pitted against each other. What we are working for in the area of leisure money is that it is those who have support in social services who will get this opportunity. We cannot remove this possibility. We must reintroduce leisure money so that this possibility is in any case present with many other measures. It is true that we have not got everything through our common budget. Unfortunately, I do not remember the second question.
i-4082462800771aed-315	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not doubt Roland Utbolt's commitment to children and young people growing up in socio-economically vulnerable residential areas. The problem is that the policies that are now being pursued will hardly benefit the children and young people who are growing up there. That is why I am actually going to ask my rather provocative question, which I think Roland Utbolt can take. Is this not a budget mainly for high-income people in our country, or is it really aimed at children and young people who grow up in socio-economically vulnerable residential areas?
i-4082462800771aed-316	Madam President, I would like I am glad I have the opportunity to say that we are not getting everything through in our budget. We have a great many proposals which, of course, we do not get through. But we have found a good way, and it is a well-prepared budget that we have. When we talk about high-income people, children and young people, the poor, and so on, I would still like to focus on the support we give to the municipalities, that is, the municipal subsidies. We've discussed culture school here. The municipal contributions from the state are SEK 3.5 billion, as we have previously heard from Lotta Finstorp. It is a very important support for municipalities to work with, among other things, the cultural school and get a wide range of it, regardless of the income people have. It is not only SEK 3.5 billion in municipal support, but it is also more than half a billion SEK that goes to grants for general cultural activities, and we are talking about culture today. I think it is extremely important that we include the state contribution to the municipalities. If we are to get this right and in the municipalities we must create equality between people with different incomes, we must have this support. As far as culture school is concerned, I think this is very important to include, as we have heard before.
i-4082462800771aed-319	Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, we increased funding for municipalities and county councils by as much as SEK 40 billion. That was the kind of redistribution that we made with our economic policy, and the money did not go towards tax cuts for the high-income earners we have in our country. This kind of priority can be done to ensure better care for the elderly and to ensure that the distribution is made especially to women and children in our country. We did that gender screening of our own budget, which would ensure that the money went not least to the children and young people growing up in these areas. That is why we also ensured that unemployment would decrease and that 18 to 25-year-olds would be guaranteed the opportunity to enter the labour market. Above all, we gave them over 15 years of age the opportunity to get a summer job in the municipalities. I strongly argue that the economic policy now being implemented mainly provides money for high-income earners – those who earn over 42 000 SEK a month – and that it is not targeted at children and young people at all. I think that's a problem.
i-4082462800771aed-322	Madam President, I would like I am opposed to the fact that we are targeting high-income workers. It is not the Christian Democrats' policy. It is true that in this budget we are reducing taxes on households, above all. When we talk about culture – because I think we should stick to the culture here – we are, of course, talking about free admission and that now you have to pay a little more when you go to museums. But the fact is that when we lower the tax on household income, it means that you also have more opportunity to visit exhibitions, concerts and the like. Now we got into an economic discussion – almost a tax discussion – but I claim that we work on the basis of everyone's opportunity to take part in the culture, above all.
i-4082462800771aed-324	Madam President, I would like "You can't take anything with you where you go" is the beginning of a refrain that Edvard Persson, among other things, turned around in the mid-40s. And yes, all that we collect during a lifetime cannot be taken with us as we walk into eternity. But the objects we leave behind tell us their story – about historical events, lost habits, cultures and the people who lived in these stories. If you don't know your past, you can't grasp the future either, and in this work, the country's museum activities have an incredibly important task to preserve, tell and pass on our cultural heritage. Does the President have any idea how many varieties of axes there are? Neither did I, I can say with my hand on my heart, until 2016 I was out walking with the Veteran march between Hudiksvall – Mrs. Speaker's neighborhood – and Sundsvall. We then passed Borderfors yxmuseum. There are almost 2,000 different types of axes for most tasks: rot axes, nodules, pik axes, stamp axes and double-edged caste axes, to name a few. In fact, there is one that goes back as far as 3,500 years and that has been found at the riverside. It is a little more than the four variants I have at home in my woodshed. Madam President, I would like In my county of Blekinge, in Olofström municipality, there is a gallows museum. So it's about coat hangers, not the other kind of gallows. Who's going to collect hangers? But the gallows also tell a story. They have about a hundred years on their necks and have different design, design and function. In addition, they tell of a bygone era when most communities had their own clothing and clothing stores. When I look in my own wardrobe, which has been around for about ten years, and try to make it a bit uniform and stylish, I find myself keeping clothes hangers from my old hometown of Västerås and even from the time my parents lived in Stockholm and Gothenburg. I'm holding on to them because they're also cultural objects and have their history. Madam President, I would like We will thank all the enthusiasts and the commitment to our cultural heritage that is around our country. We have about 1,600, plus a few hundred, different museums around our country, and the majority of them are actually nonprofit or privately owned. In 2016, the then government, the current transitional government, introduced free admission to museums. It was about state museums, I would like to emphasise – and not all state museums either, for that matter. The reform can of course be considered to be legitimate in terms of the purpose, i.e. the desire to open up to groups who, for various economic reasons, may not normally be able to imagine putting that hundred-dollar item which it costs, on average, to go to museums. That's well-lawed. However, when looking at the analysis of the impact of the reform, one can see, among other things in the conclusions of the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, that this has primarily benefited large cities. Most state museums are actually located in Stockholm and other major cities. It has primarily benefited residents in the inner city of Stockholm – those who are experienced museum visitors have chosen to go once more – and tourists. For some time now, we have had increasing visitor numbers in this country, including our museums. I would rather say, Madam President, that this reform, despite its benevolence, has nevertheless led to an imbalance. That is a political conclusion. That is why we Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, choose to remove the free entrance into the museums – precisely to strengthen their own economy in terms of our tax cuts to, above all, low and middle income earners and to strengthen the possibility of taking part in the various museums available throughout the country, not just in the metropolitan areas. The mill museum in Skultuna, where Vasiliki Tsouplaki lives, should also be able to take part in increased visitor opportunities. Madam President, I would like As I said, museum activities mean so much more than just exhibiting objects from past times. It also means being able to convey stories and history. An excellent example is the Marine Museum in my hometown of Karlskrona. It is a state museum that has free entrance, that is to say, was able to take part in that reform, but which does so much more than just show off marine objects and the marine heritage. It is a living activity that, among other things, my children love and are raised in. It is absolutely amazing that the Marine Museum was the first destination the children wanted to go to when they were young and were free for holidays. There were amazingly exciting stories, and the favourite was to go into the small room where you showed how the field cutter, who was the doctor of that time, sawed off the leg of a poor sailor. You can see that there were great crowds. It could also be on board, along with scurvy and other things, and the children learned a lot about marine life once upon a time. Madam President, I would like The Moderates do not promise everything to everyone, but we want to support activities throughout the country. We do not want only a few museums to be supported, but that this should apply to all museums through income enhancements. I support the proposal in the Culture Committee's report 1 and reject the reservations.
i-4082462800771aed-334	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help it – when my hometown of Skultuna was mentioned, Annicka Engblom attracted me for a line. In what way do you mean, Annicka Engblom, that with your draft budget you support museums throughout the country? You are taking away the free-entry money of first 60 million and then 80 million, but I do not see that you are adding anything either to the cultural cooperation model or otherwise to ensure that museums throughout the country can introduce free entrance. The other day, when we had the Ministry of Culture on the committee to prepare your budget, they were very clear that the museums have also come to museums to a greater extent after the reform was introduced and that the number of visitors drastically decreased the last time the free-entry reform was removed by the Alliance government. I'm very perplexed at how you see your politics to benefit the museums. You, Annicka Engblom, speak warmly for our cultural heritage and for the museums, but your speech about what is in the collections may be the only way for some people to get to know what is in the museums at all when it can be too expensive for many families to go there. How does your policy support the accessibility of our cultural heritage?
i-4082462800771aed-339	Madam President, I would like I'm very happy that Vasiliki Tsouplaki picked up on my invitation from the speaker's chair. I also happen to come from Västerås and I know Skultuna well. I've been there a lot, even at the museum. In answer to Vasiliki Tsouplaki's question, I can say that what benefits from free entrances is the big city. You should live in Stockholm – you can't even live outside Stockholm, you should get to Stockholm or to the large state museums. It is of course to state museums entrance fee one is abolished, not to all museums around the country. Our tax cuts for the country's low- and middle-income recipients, as well as for the municipal budget, which can contribute to all kinds of museums – to private, non-profit and non-governmental museums, to regional and local museums – make it possible to spend more money on, among other things, culture in the priority it makes. The visitor figures rose slightly after the abolition of the entrance fee – after 2016 – but are now back at about the same levels as before. We need to look at this over time, because visitor numbers must be put in relation to tourist initiatives and so on. Between 2011 and 2017 – i.e. with entrance fees and without entrance fees – there are about 200 000 visitors. It is the content of the museum activity that determines. It is the visitor figures for all museums – not just the state – that we can raise by the tax cuts that we contribute to.
i-4082462800771aed-344	Madam President, I would like You did the same type of redistribution last time there was an alliance budget in force, Annicka Engblom – it was probably 2007 that you removed the fee last time. It was the same policy at the time: you made major tax cuts for high-income earners and removed the free-entry reform. Then we saw that the number of visitors went down. The effect you are looking for – that people could spend more of their own money on entrance fees – thus does not seem to have worked that time. I had hoped that one could look at the history and draw the conclusions that I draw. When we hear from the department that the free-entré reform has attracted museum unda, I am very concerned about the accessibility of our common cultural heritage in the future. It is self-evident to me that free entrance means lower thresholds than entrances. That's how simple it is; that it costs is a threshold for a lot of people. When your tax cuts go mainly to those who earn over 42 000 crowns a month, I do not think that this will attract the museum unaccompanied to whom we actually want to make the cultural heritage available.
i-4082462800771aed-346	Madam President, I would like I choose to look at the figures and analyses of the independent Agency for Cultural Analysis, which has pointed out exactly the opposite of what Vasiliki Tsouplaki is saying here. The abolition of entrance fees has gone to the big cities, to experienced visitors who live in big cities and, above all, to tourists. The aim was well-founded, but it has not had the effect that was intended. It has also been concentrated in the big cities. I think I usually hear from the Left Party in the debate that they want a living countryside and that they want a distribution policy that should reach everyone. Why, then, do we put forward proposals that meet very few people and, above all, meet urban residents as regards the possibility of visiting our important cultural heritage activities? With our proposals, we strengthen the family budget – mainly for low and middle-income recipients – and the municipal budget. In this way, we are also increasing the possibility of cultural practice.
i-4082462800771aed-349	Madam President, I would like World carbon dioxide emissions continue to increase. For a few years, the increases seemed to be coming off, but to my disappointment and the disappointment of many others, we now see how things are going in the wrong direction. Even in Sweden we see that the decline we have had has stopped. The boom has halted a decline we have been proud of. That tells us only one thing: what we have done so far is not enough. We need to step up our efforts further, decide politically on more measures, increase our investments in the climate and see how we can make it easier for people to do the right thing. Sustainability must never be a class issue; everyone must be able to get on board in the conversion process. The answer to the challenge we face can never be what the Moderates and Christian Democrats propose: reduced investment and fewer measures for the common. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has reinforced the seriousness of the message. We now know that the consequences are devastating even at two degrees of global temperature increase. We must radically break the trend and reduce emissions immediately. What we do in Sweden means something for real. We can show that the world's first fossil-free welfare country is possible. We can show that the new technology can deliver both reduced emissions and continued prosperity. Sweden must act in a stable and credible manner. It is only when we in Sweden show that at the same time we can reduce emissions and manage growth and jobs that we can convince others to take the step towards, for example, carbon tax, air tax, reduction obligation, climate investments, environmental car bonuses or which instruments they now find best. But, Madam President, as I began by saying: all that we have done, all the investments that lead to large reductions in emissions, are not enough. It is a huge task for us to face, and to solve it requires a strong government of action. It requires a government that keeps climate-deniers in the Swedish Parliament away from influence. If climate deniers are given space, there will be none of the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Then we'll wait until others have done something, and then we'll back into the future. Still others will then point to us and ask: But why do you not do anything? Climate Deniers can then answer: But we are such a small country, so what we do does not affect so much. The result is easy that no one does anything. Everyone is just looking and waiting, which is exactly the situation we've been in for 20 years. We've all known what's coming. It's an expensive wait we can't afford. In 1972 Olof Palme said in the opening speech at the UN's environmental conference: It is very, very urgent. In fact, the fact that it has been very, very urgent since 1972 is something that is mankind's great sorrow. We've known, and we've been waiting. Madam President, I would like We have 16 environmental quality objectives that this Parliament has decided on. We cannot afford the luxury of focusing entirely on the climate issue. At the same time, our way of living is affected by a variety of other threats and challenges. Depleting biodiversity threatens the delicate balance that exists in nature. I know it can be difficult to understand why we need to protect moss species or fungi, insects, birds or sometimes predators. The food we eat, the air we breathe, the fresh water we so badly need, building materials, energy and so on are produced in ecosystems that are complex networks of species that act together and process, circulate and upgrade elements to nutrients. Without this diversity of species, the systems do not work. When species disappear, this net closes again, adapts and functions seemingly as before. But every time a species disappears, the net becomes thinner, and the resilience of the system decreases. Finally, it crashes, and production stops. In Sweden we have a nature type that is at least as globally important as the rain forest in South America or the savannah in Africa. They are called the boreal coniferous belt or, as many of us say, the taiga. It's the planet's oxygen factory. But it is also a carbon collector that slows down climate change. In Sweden, we have developed forestry based on a balance between the utilisation and conservation of this resource. The two-fold goal of forestry has been a success factor for Sweden, and of course we must strictly ensure that the conservation requirements we have complied with are complied with. Of course, some of the forests must be saved as gene banks for biodiversity. But the political principles and our constitution on property rights mean that we must of course also ensure that there are budgetary means to replace the forest owner whose forest cannot be used as he or she had thought because of this gene bank status. These forest owners are doing something that is for the good of all and for the future of all of us. In this situation, to do as the Moderates and the Christian Democrats and greatly reduce state funds is serious and illogical. Madam President, I would like Let us look back to 1972. We can see that today we have much more knowledge of all the environmental problems we face. We have new technologies, and we have innovations to take the next step. Unfortunately, however, the problems have also grown. In one area, I see that we are far behind, and although awareness has increased, we are facing important political choices. It's about the circular economy. I see it as an important task for us during the current term of office, both in Sweden and in the European Union, to develop policy in this area. It is about seeing how we can control material flows, how we can use waste as a resource and how we can reduce the impact on the environment and climate. Madam President, I would like I would like to end by talking about the sea. Then it is again about the cycles that I was in and that nature itself has created. Two incredibly important substances in the cycles are phosphorus and nitrogen. There are two basic building blocks in all living things, in our t DNA and in our nutrients. Unfortunately, what we humans have done is we have put these cycles out of play. Imbalances that we see today, in my home sea, for example, the Baltic Sea, are fundamentally caused by how we have had a large-scale impact on the nitrogen and phosphorus cycle. It's a sick sea we see. There are large areas of dead bottoms. There are great fluctuations in fish stocks, which affect the industry, and in algae that destroy our coasts. The government after the government has developed measures to different extents. Temporary efforts have been made, which have sometimes become too short-lived due to re-priorities or the accession of a new government. I am therefore pleased that we have now commissioned the Environmental Objectives Committee to try to gather the parties to vacuum the ideas for solutions available. We need a long-term strong policy for the seas that stands above government shifts and mandates. I hope that all parties in the preparation can contribute with a solution-oriented approach. Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with Category 20. It could have the title FUTURE, in capital letters. The area of expenditure is about policy measures for our children and grandchildren to have a future. The tremendously remarkable cut in climate and environment policy resulting from the budget vote of 12 December will have far-reaching consequences. The Climate Act – well known to this House – requires the Government to report on how the objectives of the climate policy framework decided by the Riksdag are to be achieved. The fact that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have removed measures, investments and instruments without clearly stating how emissions should be reduced instead is terribly irresponsible to this Parliament's decision. It is also irresponsible to the next generation, to the other countries of the European Union and to the negotiators in Katowice who, with great surprise, saw how the climate model suddenly turned around and went backwards instead of forwards. We Social Democrats will abstain on this issue because our proposal for a framework has already fallen in this House. Instead, I hope that a new capable government will soon be able to take up and strengthen this area of expenditure by means of an amending budget – an amending budget that strengthens the prospects but also once again strengthens our international credibility.
i-4082462800771aed-369	Madam President, I would like Sweden still lacks a real government, but Sweden is now getting an environmental budget. I would like to say that it is an environmental budget that is moving in the direction of Swedish democracy. This is something that we get because the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats in practice, have now formed a conservative bloc, at least when it comes to the budget reading. We get less from socialist and liberal policies in the environmental field. Inefficient climate policy is beginning to be cut back, and more effective investment in research and international investment is being introduced. We are slowing down the expansionary forestry policy that threatens Swedish industry and growth. Once again, we can begin to take the steps towards a forestry policy that lives up to the direction of freedom under responsibility that has prevailed. We have the world's best foresters in this country, and they deserve more trust and less cleavage on the part of the authorities. Madam President, I would like We are particularly pleased that we can also take a step towards a more effective climate policy, in which inefficient investments in climate change investments are severely cut. Climate policy should not be implemented through inefficient subsidies in municipalities and county councils to activities that would in any case have been supported elsewhere. We are pleased that the premium for electric vehicles is now being abolished. This has been a bit of the example of the symbolic policy of the socialist parties. No climate is saved by allowing taxpayers to pay for a large part of the cost when urban residents are buying electric bicycles. The e-bike market grew explosively before subsidies, and in the long run it will continue to grow completely without state interference. Madam President, I would like There is talk of a slaughter on the environmental budget from the Socialist Members of this House. It's a strange picture of reality. The environmental budget that we are now clubs is at about the same level as the budget the previous Red Green Government decided on in 2016. One might wonder if it was a disastrous year for the Swedish environment. I don't think so. Madam President, I would like There is, of course, much in the environmental field where we would need even more Swedish-democratic environmental policy. Today, the world is completely dependent on fossil energy. More than 80 percent of all energy is fossil today, and there is not expected to be any major change in the coming years. Wind and solar power are growing slowly, and coal power continues to grow. It is not that people burn fossil fuels and fuels because it is fun. This is done because it is cost-effective and efficient and because there are no adequate alternatives. If fossil fuels were to be completely stopped today, this would have serious consequences for the world economy and therefore serious consequences for people – people would die. It is therefore not as simple as simply stopping this, but there must be alternatives. Then we need to invest in new technology. In Sweden we have been spared from fossil energy. Thanks to nuclear power and hydropower, we do not yet have this problem, although in the long term the Swedish fossil-free energy production is threatened by the early decommissioning of nuclear power one, which, through political influence on the energy market, is moving ever closer. Many scientists, including the IPCC, have warned that the growth of nuclear power in the world is too low. We should take this more seriously, and that is why I would like to mention the Swedish Democrats' proposal to create a new research reactor for next generation nuclear power and to persuade Vattenfall, through new ownership directives, to stop the closure of the reactors in Ringhals. Madam President, I would like Another area I would like to highlight is transport policy, which today does not stick together. We have ineffective measures in the form of a climate bonus for low-emission cars. It benefits businesses and wealthy people, while families with children, who may be able to afford a new Dacia, have received a double tax. These subsidies end up with companies and car manufacturers who can increase their margins and keep higher prices due to tax subsidies. Companies lease out these cars, and when the leasing period is interrupted, the cars end up in Norway. Almost all our electric cars end up there, so through tax subsidies we supply the Norwegian market with almost new electric cars. It is a rather stupid way of using tax revenue, and it should stop immediately. Madam President, I would like We also have a fuel policy that is counterproductive. The Swedish reduction obligation is directly harmful to the climate at the current level. World scientists agree that large-scale use of biofuels does not work and is not sustainable. If we expect indirect effects, emissions from crop-based biofuels are too large and generally higher than those from fossil fuels. Recently, Swedish researchers have also drawn attention to this, which we could read about at DN Debate last week. This is really the middle end of research. The same researchers who revealed the diesel scam at Volkswagen have been talking about this for several years. What appears to be good in our Swedish calculations therefore has direct negative consequences on a global level. I therefore do not understand the continuation of this harmful policy. It is a policy that also leads to increased fuel prices, especially for diesel. This is reflected in tank prices today, where we can see an increased price difference between diesel and petrol, partly because of the fact that diesel is significantly higher. In addition, everything indicates that prices will continue to increase as a result of the annual screw-up of the reduction obligation. Madam President, I would like We need to continue along this path, with more effective environmental policies and increased investment in research and development. This year's environmental budget is a step forward, but there is more to be done.
i-4082462800771aed-384	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I shall not hymn that it has been something of a dream to stand in this very speaker's seat in this particular debate and represent my particular party. Environmental and climate issues are basically why I engaged politically, just like many others in my generation. I wanted to get more political power behind solving the fate issue for our society and for my generation. But I will also be honest with you that it would have been nicer if we had not been able to stand in this particular debate, if we had not seen the threats we are seeing to the seas and lakes, to the ecosystems and cultivation conditions and to the very foundations of the global economy and man's ability to support himself and our modern society. Stopping global warming and reducing our negative impact on ecosystems, natural cycles and natural environments is indeed a matter of destiny. The Centre Party's ambition in this budgetary process, as in this parliamentary year and the parliamentary term, is to meet these challenges. We want to use the power of politics to create a framework that steers towards a sustainable society, towards lower emissions and a circular economy. We want to direct the creative power of the individual and the entire strength of the market economy into the process towards this sustainable society. We want to address environmental threats and solutions, but we also want to demonstrate a sustainable society. It is not just a question of avoiding disaster, but actually of building a better society. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that a society in which women in Bangladesh do not die in lung diseases caused by coal-fired stoves is a better society. I am convinced that a society where carbon mining, rainforest deforestation and oil spills in our seas do not wipe out unique species and ecosystems is a better society. I am also convinced that a society where the energy for our transport and the materials we consume does not come from the oil industry in corrupt dictatorships, but rather from Swedish solar energy or Småland pine is a better society – and a society that is richer, more healthy and better for the voters we represent. The ambition to steer towards this better society is expressed in the Center Party's budget movement and in the movements we have raised in committees and as party movements. We propose a broad reform programme with powerful instruments to reduce emissions. We want to change the fleet of vehicles, reduce emissions from aviation, increase renewable energy production and reduce toxins in our everyday lives. We want to protect the seas, secure the supply of drinking water and protect biodiversity. We believe that important proposals to achieve this are precisely the proposals we are putting forward for a green car bonus, for an environmental truck premium, for a reduction obligation to reduce CO2 emissions, for improved conditions for both large-scale and small-scale renewable energy production. We believe that this is about increased investment in both charging infrastructure and energy storage, and about instruments such as waste incineration tax and chemicals taxes. Let me address in particular some of the challenges that we see and that we have taken on board in our exercise. It's about the environment in our seas and lakes. Although Sweden, compared to many of its neighbours, has come a long way in reducing emissions of environmental toxins and fertilisers in the Baltic Sea, we still have a great deal of work to do. It is a question of dealing with the drugs we cannot clean out today and of snoring in the great points that we have not reached. It is also about taking action and creating systems that will enable us to take on the challenge of guiding the way of water through the landscape and ensuring that we not only steer it out into our seas and lakes, but that it can flow more naturally. This is not only good for the environment, but I think that many realised during the extremely dry summer we had what an advantage it is with standing water, for both cattle and firefighting. This is a typical example of an environmental policy that is good for society, the individual and the environment. It is also about emissions from transport, perhaps not least aviation. The Center Party wants a new research programme to be introduced to bring about a green change in aviation. Such a research programme shall aim at launching demonstration facilities for bio-aeronautical fuel, with a focus on starting large-scale production in Sweden, and research into technical solutions for re-setting the aviation sector. To this end, we set aside SEK 250 million per year in our draft budget. With instruments, new technologies, entrepreneurship and innovation, we can reduce emissions from aviation while at the same time not losing sight of operating internationally in order to present more effective instruments. Perhaps not least in order to achieve zero emissions in 2045, it is about catching up on the emissions that we cannot avoid. Here, in the Center Party, we want to work on what we call negative emissions, that is, to take carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and try to store the carbon dioxide released from biofuels in order to actually get negative emissions. Much suggests that this will be crucial both to reduce our emissions properly and to achieve net zero. As has been said, a key element of the Center Party's environmental policy is to protect natural values that are under threat. But it is also important to ensure that those who are going to build the green society have the right conditions to do so. Let me be clear, Madam President, that the proposals we are putting forward, for example on appropriations for the conservation of nature, are not about destroying the conditions for the agricultural and forestry sector to take its responsibility for changing Sweden. As I said, our ambitions in the field of the environment and climate are to step up the pace, to take responsibility here in Sweden and internationally, and not least to build a better society. With that, Madam President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-4082462800771aed-401	Madam President, I would like I appreciate hearing the honourable Member's involvement in the speaker's chair. I also heard a commitment about rain forest devastation. Then my question is: why are people as motorists in Sweden, because of the Center Party's policy with a reduction obligation, forced to refuel fuels that lead to rain forest destruction? In fact, when you refuel your diesel car today, a large part of it comes from palm oil-based fuels, i.e. fuels that lead to the extinction of biodiversity, rain forest deforestation and species extinction. It is also fuels that lead to increased climate impact compared to fossil fuels. If we take a look, we can see that in the middle of the world's scientists, there is a rather consensus that a large-scale biofuel mix is not sustainable. It's the same leading scientists at ICCT who exposed the diesel scam. They are very clear that the fuel policy that Sweden is pursuing today is not sustainable. The question is why we should give car-dependent people increased fuel prices, reduce the state's tax revenue and reduce climate change. Is it to make the Swedish calculations look better on paper, or what is it about?
i-4082462800771aed-405	Madam President, I would like Then I thank you for the compliment on my commitment. That commitment is not lacking, I can say, and that is why I am also aware that we in Sweden need to make a change in our transport sector. These are by far the most important and supporting elements. Furthermore, if we are to manage to do this by 2030, when we have set ourselves a sub-target of cutting the majority of these emissions, liquid biofuels are an integral and absolutely necessary part. For my part, the goal is for these to be fuels produced in Sweden, which lower emissions and which allow us to take major steps in this. But we also see that we are living in a globalised world where some of the fuel today comes from, for example, residues from palm oil production. Those of us who have been involved in this also know that this is something that we have tried in various ways to address in the Swedish Parliament. We have tried to put forward proposals to get to grips with this. In this process, I have missed the Swedish Democrats, as I have missed you in your commitment to replacing fossil fuels with renewables. It is not a question of environmental fraud; it is a question of reducing our emissions. That is why I am also a little concerned when this is partly described as reducing the tax base, because the last thing I think this should be about is the tax base. That is why I am so convinced that in the Center Party's motion there are proposals to bring up our own production of liquid biofuels. We will ensure that this comes from Swedish forest production, where we have the best results in the world and where we have opportunities to scale up. That is exactly what I think is missing from the Swedish Democrats' description of the issue. No, nor do I want to keep the residual product PFAD in the long term, and that is why we are putting forward proposals on how to come from it. What proposals do the Swedish Democrats have regarding this other than using fossil diesel, which is also largely produced in countries with very poor democratic infrastructure?
i-4082462800771aed-411	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the honourable Member for the question. The Swedish Democrats want a sustainable biofuels policy. Biofuels definitely have a role to play in transport policy, but that role is too great in Sweden today, which leads to an unsustainable biofuels policy. The researchers in the middle range agree: this policy is not sustainable. It increases emissions rather than reduces them, and that is reducing emissions we are going to deal with here in the Swedish Parliament. Why, then, should we have a policy which, according to scientists, increases emissions? Nor are there any proposals to remove palm oil-based fuels, just proposals to label them from origin. I have asked scientists what consequences this has. No one at all, they say, because it is the same market anyway. It is also extremely difficult to ensure that there has been some kind of sustainable production. This is therefore a policy that leads to increased emissions but that looks better in the Swedish calculations. It's not pretty.
i-4082462800771aed-415	Madam President, I would like Maybe we should go back to the calculations. We can reduce the conflict situation a little, because internationally we cannot have the same targets for liquid biofuels as we have in Sweden. Unfortunately, this is the result of the fact that the rest of the world does not have our sustainable forestry. You don't have the forest resources we have. If we were to knock out Sweden's goals and Sweden's thinking in this area to the whole world, we therefore do not get a calculation that lasts. But in order for us in Sweden to meet our goals by 2030, it is absolutely crucial. It is important, because we have a responsibility to reduce emissions in every way we can, but I also think that there are two other things. They are about taking the particular global responsibility and demonstrating that emissions can be reduced without affecting individual citizens and growth, and also about taking international responsibility and setting an example in the development of technologies that can replace these fuels. We have discussed back and forth what to do with the very residues we are talking about. We in the Center Party have made our suggestions as to what we think this should look like. What I hope for next year is precisely an offensive policy from the Swedish Democrats to achieve the 2030 targets. I don't see that today.
i-4082462800771aed-419	Madam President, I would like After the elections, no bloc gained its own majority. That is why we had a transitional government that would temporarily govern so that the work of the authorities could continue. The Transitional Government presented a budget to manage that work. In this situation, the right-wing conservatives choose to exercise on it, and M and KD manage to take power by the back of their budget in a situation where we do not have a government. This puts us in a situation where we have a transitional government that is going to push through a politically coloured budget that no one really has to take responsibility for and for which we have no one to answer for. Now we stand here with a state budget of 28 pages and try to understand what it is the right-wing conservatives want Sweden to become, in addition to a better society for the already rich and wealthy. Today we are talking about Category 20 General Protection of the Environment and Nature, an area that is reduced by over 2 billion compared to the transitional budget proposal. It is a reduction that means fewer jobs, for example 1 450 green jobs, less resources to achieve our environmental goals and less resources for our authorities to implement Swedish environmental policy. It is clear that 2 billion have consequences. The reductions are mainly carried out in the forest area. This involves a reduction in funding for measures and protection of a valuable nature of over SEK 1.3 billion – a halving. Such a large reduction in funding will reduce opportunities for conservation measures, reduce access to outdoor and natural areas and remove efforts to protect endangered species. Biodiversity is about the diversity of all living organisms of all origins, within and between species and in ecosystems. Biodiversity is a prerequisite for all life on the planet. This is an emergency. We know that. The stocks of wild vertebrates have decreased by 60 percent since the 1970s. If it continues, two thirds will be gone by 2020. Our entire economy is based on the ecosystem services of nature. We take advantage of them every day. Nature absorbs carbon dioxide, evens out the temperature and helps to pollinate flowers and spread seeds. We know this. We get food, clean water, oxygen and energy. Our use of earth's resources puts heavy pressure on our ecosystems. It is high time we looked after and repaired ecosystems to ensure our future survival. Reducing efforts on measures for valuable nature provides less resources to slow biodiversity depletion and makes it difficult to achieve several of our environmental objectives, such as rich plant and animal life, living forests and a rich agricultural landscape. The grant for protection of a valuable nature, which the Moderates and the KD have now halved, includes compensation for those landowners who have a protected nature on their land. The replacement of key biotope-rich land is now being removed on the grounds that the key biotope inventory is being stopped. But even if it is stopped, there are many landowners who will continue to need compensation when key biotopes are to be protected. For the Left, it is obvious that those who have forest and land that need protection, for example because of their species wealth, will also receive more compensation for it. It is therefore deeply regrettable that this compensation will now be given to fewer and fewer forest owners. Another item that has been ironed out is climate investment, which has been reduced to more than half. This removes the carpet for most companies and municipalities that want to make climate investments and contribute to the necessary climate change change. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has granted investment aid for nearly 2,000 measures since 2015 and until mid-2018. It has been about transport, biogas production and energy conversion. In total, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has allocated 3.2 billion over the period, created over 2 500 new jobs and achieved a reduction of greenhouse gases equivalent to 885 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. The Moderates and the KD are happy to state that the measures taken by the previous government had no effect, and so it is wasted money. But what do M and KD choose to do instead? Their budget is freed from greater visions of how we can achieve our national and international environmental objectives, which we know we need to achieve. Thousands of scientists are behind the UN climate report, which says it is urgent. In this light, the conservative budget is nothing more than a disaster. We need further efforts and instruments in the field of climate and the environment. It is necessary to achieve our objectives for future generations. M and KD together with SD now choose to do exactly the opposite. The flight should continue to have sour cream and avoid paying for its climate impact. It will be cheaper to use fossil fuels. Less resources should be invested in protecting nature and endangered species. Short-term and incentives to those with the highest incomes are given priority over long-term measures that reduce gaps and distribute our resources fairly and sustainably. We therefore agree with the specific opinion we have given.
i-4082462800771aed-434	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal, that is, the joint proposal of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in Category 20. As we have heard before, the climate challenge is global. This means that we in Sweden must meet it on both an international and a national level. Following multi-annual negotiations, it is very gratifying that the world's countries in 2015 agreed on a climate agreement in Paris. Good international cooperation is crucial for progress. Now, after two weeks of negotiations, the Katowice climate summit has finally come to an end. The climate requires the countries of the world to act together. It is therefore extremely gratifying that countries have been able to agree on a rule book on how to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Then, of course, we could always want more. Today we see how the Swedish companies actively and without government pointers work to reduce their own tracks in the environment and climate. They are doing so today because it is a great competitive advantage. They must be at the forefront. So in many situations it is a conscious choice of its own. I can mention, for example, how Stora Enso has now decided on the extension and improvement of a treatment plant at Skoghalls Bruk at home in Värmland for nearly a quarter of a billion SEK. The investments will improve the quality of the return water to Lake Vänern, and the sludge can be used as biofuel. It constantly strives to use as much of the tree as possible and to find new uses for its residues, while minimising its environmental impact. Therefore, we think it is important to invest money in further climate research to support companies in the environmental challenges they face. We will contribute SEK 300 million over the next three years to increased environmental research to stimulate research on biofuels for aviation, among other things. We also want to allocate SEK 250 million in three years for the expansion of technology-neutral charging infrastructure along Sweden's roads. The possibility of charging electric vehicles is very important in order to create confidence in electric vehicles and to enable charging when the vehicle should move a little longer. Sweden has more than just urban traffic. The support can be used to co-finance investments in public charging infrastructure up to 50 percent and will be phased in in in 2019. In order to be able to quickly reduce CO2 levels in the atmosphere, we need to do more than that. Unfortunately, Sweden is now in danger of phasing out well-functioning nuclear reactors that could certainly be involved in making a major contribution to reducing CO2 emissions. If we look at the IPCC report released a few weeks ago, it is clear that if we are to meet the goal of reducing CO2 emissions globally, the number of nuclear reactors should increase significantly in order to meet the demand for electricity. In Germany, nuclear power plants are being shut down today and, unfortunately, it will be coal power reactors that will be able to replace a large part of the loss. I can only exemplify a little. If all coal power stations in Denmark, Germany, Poland and Finland were to be closed down, we would need 80 new nuclear reactors to replace all the electricity that those power plants are sending out on the grid. Here we have incredible environmental benefits to bring home. Then it is quite clear that nuclear power plants are not the best solution in all respects, but what are the alternatives now that we are going to change? We need to reset now! Madam President, I would like Another important area is our seas. This summer we have seen many actions where people living along our coasts are picking up junk, not least plastic floating ashore in incredible amounts. Unfortunately, not all plastic can be picked up by hand. We have microplastics. Therefore, we want to invest in reducing microplastics through, among other things, the purification of stormwater, but also through new materials and techniques to reduce microplastics from, for example, car tyres. Therefore, we spend more money during the years 2019– 2021 to support investments in purification technology. This also applies to pharmaceutical residues, which we absolutely must remove. In addition to this, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates want to add SEK 600 million over the next three years one to improve the situation in the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is one of the most sensitive seas in the world, and it is currently exposed to major environmental threats. Eutrophication from nutrient leakage and environmental toxins disrupt the ocean's ecosystems, with algal blooms and large areas with dead seabeds as a result. We are therefore providing resources to curb it. We are deepening the LOVA contribution that the Alliance introduced in government positions. It is a government co-financing of local water conservation projects that reduce the amount of nitrogen and phosphorus or environmental toxins in the oceans. The LOVA grant has proven to be effective. Madam President, I would like As I said in my introduction, the climate challenge is global. Thus, the work for a better environment must also be carried out globally. We in Sweden cannot control everything ourselves. That is why we want to improve the joint work of the Baltic Sea region. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are investing in strengthening the regional work for the Baltic Sea and the Western Sea and are therefore spending money on it in the coming years. In order to further strengthen international climate efforts, we want to invest in increased climate aid with 3 billion extra in three years. Aid will have a clearer climate focus with the aim of reducing emissions globally. The fact that we spend more money on increased climate aid gives us a greater reduction in emissions per tax crown. In addition, climate investment abroad must increase. That's why we're spending SEK 300 million on this for the next three years one. Several reports indicate that one of the most cost-effective tools in climate policy is international climate investment through, for example, Clean Development Mechanism. These mechanisms have produced good results on several levels, such as climate impact, air quality and health, as well as technology transfer and development in other countries. Madam President, I would like In the transitional budget submitted by the government, there are several initiatives that we want to remove from our budget. Repeatedly, researchers and consultation bodies have established that several of these are symbolic measures that are ineffective from both environmental and climate point of view. The environment and climate are too important not to take seriously. That is why we want to spend money where they actually do the most good for the environment and the climate. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates have therefore chosen to prioritise international efforts, research, fossil-free passenger transport and the marine environment.
i-4082462800771aed-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! You talked about a lot of issues, but I'm going to raise another issue that you haven't raised. You halve support for measures of a valuable nature. I know how committed you are to nature issues and not least predator issues, as you often talk about. In fact, the halving of measures for valuable nature will mean that the compensation for predatory fences will also halve as well as the support for mowing and pastures and restoration of hiking trails in the mountains and around Sweden. You often talk about the countryside living. So here you are halving support for the type of measures that benefit economic activities and jobs in rural areas. A note is also about mosquito control. I know that the Christian Democrats in Uppsala County are very committed to not lowering the support available for mosquito control, but here you halve it straight off. I therefore wonder whether you have been careful enough with your budget base when you have presented this proposal.
i-4082462800771aed-458	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell asked several questions. Let's see if I remember everyone, or I'll have to get back to you in my second line. We can start from behind. In the field of mosquito control we have 650 million kroner left. It's about priorities. Not only do we need to be in Uppsala, but we can go home to Värmland where we have big mosquito problems in parts of Klarälven, among other places in Forshaga. So there's still money. It's a matter of priority. With regard to the halving of the money for nature protection, among other things, we want to slow this down right now because it goes too fast and too far when we see that people have to set aside forests and not get paid for the forest. That's why we want to slow things down now. We want an investigation so that we can ensure that we have legal certainty worthy of the name, because unfortunately we do not have it today. When we have discussed these issues, we have checked that this reduction does not mean that those who have already entered into agreements will be affected. They get their money. But we'll wait with new deals until we get a legally secure handling of the whole thing. As far as our debate on what is making an impact, Maria Gardfjell, is concerned, we think that many of these things do not have the effect that they should actually have. And I do not doubt the Green Party's willingness to do good for nature; that is not what it is about. I think you are doing it because you want it well, of course, but it must still be measures that actually have an effect. The question of predatory fences, I'll have to come back to in the next line.
i-4082462800771aed-464	Madam President, I would like I shall address the effectiveness of environmental policy in my speech. I would like to comment on what you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, say about the protection of nature. It was not one of my questions, but it is an important question. If you want forest owners to receive compensation for nature protection, you should not halve the aid. Then you should do as the Center Party did and increase the support. I have another question, Madam President, and it concerns plastic, which Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned in his speech. You say that it is important to clean plastic from the oceans and beaches, but you lower the grant, which goes to Keep Sweden Clean to clean the beaches from plastic litter, by 150 million annually. What's your comment on that?
i-4082462800771aed-468	Madam President, I would like As far as the forest is concerned, as I said, we want to take a break. When we have legal certainty, we can very well be involved in increasing the support. The government that is now sitting, where the Green Party is involved, has even said in this House that it wants to set aside forests. But there is no money – even Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog has said – when it comes to the mountains near the forests. We want to introduce a forest change program so that landowners who are affected will get replacement land to use, because as forest owners you want your land to use it for several reasons. When it comes to plastic, a contribution to an organization does not determine how we handle plastic in our oceans. There is much more to be done internationally.
i-HQvv6wzBCEV3m5J8wG8Yra	Madam President, I would like In this matter, the committee deals with the Government's budget proposal for 2018/ 2019 in the parts relating to Category 20 General environmental and nature protection and exercise requests from the general exercise period. The bill sets out specific principles that have been applied in the design since it has been decided by a so-called transitional government. But as we all know, we now have a budget signed M and KD to relate to. And since the Liberals' budget motion, which would of course have been best for Sweden, has fallen, we are abstaining from a position on the matter. But, Madam President, we are on unknown ground with the parliamentary situation we are now in. It can cause concern and confusion among citizens as well as our authorities, and perhaps the authorities standing in this committee would need the opposite in particular. They need clarity, long-termness and peace of mind to meet the major challenges facing Sweden and the world, not the climate change that leads to extreme weather and natural disasters. Although we can see that the summer only had weather, no climate – as researchers usually say – it is still a clear indication of where we are going. Those who believe that the 60 million refugees today around the world are not affected by future climate change and that they will not increase the flow of refugees can be fooled. Liberals have a clear green liberal environmental and climate policy, for which we are also hailed by the environmental movement. I thank you for that, of course, and I intend to continue to live up to it. I believe that one of the reasons for this is to see that the best environmental and climate policy is not just about who has the highest budget allocation and the highest level of subsidies. Liberals are based on the principle that it is the polluter who should pay, and we want economic governance that takes place in a cost-effective and long-term way. We propose a broad green tax shift in which taxes on environmental and climate-related activities are increased. It is more effective to tax what is going away than to subsidise and discount what is going to benefit. In our draft budget, we protect the seas and beaches, watercourses, sheltered forests, the important so-called old forest and biodiversity, which are the basis for the existence of all living things. Liberals therefore focus on specific measures for the marine and aquatic environment for cleaner beaches and measures against beach erosion. Those of us who live in Skåne and especially on the east coast feel the beach erosion every spring and autumn. We have measures for a valuable environment to develop biodiversity and to combat invasive species. We also focus on the clean-up and restoration of contaminated areas and on the continued work of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. Madam President, I would like Much tax money is being spent today on the so-called ‘Climate Life', which has been clearly criticised by the Institute of Economic Development. Climate investment is needed, but we do not need distortive subsidies. The liberals therefore allocate SEK 1 500 million annually to a new grant called national climate investments. Society needs to change, and climate investments that are long-term and benefit many people are needed. The focus will be on reducing emissions, and support will be directed towards actions where invested funds have the greatest benefits and long-term impact, for example in transport and industry, as well as agriculture and forestry. This could involve biogas plants and methane gas reduction in agriculture or bicycle infrastructure to facilitate cycle commuting. It can be electric city buses for sustainable cities and an expanded charging infrastructure around our country. Too often, Madam President, there is an overconfidence that policies can subsidise the new solutions. But politicians are bad at anticipating which technology carries the future. The failed investment in ethanol fuel is just one such example. Unfortunately, it is usually mismanagement with tax money to give subsidies to what politicians hope will have an environmentally friendly effect. Instead, it is much better to put higher taxes on what we think is environmentally harmful. We will then have effective economic instruments that will gradually phase out the environmentally harmful. In addition, there is another argument, namely that environmental subsidies are wrong in terms of distribution policy, since the largest contribution goes to those who have the greatest purchasing power from the outset. It is simply not reasonable to use tax money to subsidise high income earners' purchases of electric cars, electric bicycles and outboarders. Tax money should not go to inefficient climate projects, private purchase of boat engines and so on with increased administration and bureaucracy as a result. Madam President, I would like Today, it is not entirely clear how Sweden will be governed or what the budget will look like in the future, but I and the Liberals intend to continue to live up to the promises we have made to our children and pursue an environmental and climate policy that invests in what has a real impact. I refer to the liberal budgetary motion, to our environmental motion and to the specific opinion in today's report.
i-4VQYcJm6Kz31chsdQRw5bf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Tina Acketoft! You brag a little bit that the Liberals have been lifted up by the environmental movement as a green force in the Alliance. At the same time, you are now making major cuts in the environmental budget of approximately SEK 2 billion. In fact, you are making larger cuts in the administrative grant to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency than the Moderates and KD do. You're talking about green tax exchange, but my question is very simple. Have you released the idea of green tax exchange? You're telling me that you want higher taxes on what's environmentally harmful, but now the Liberals are suddenly taking away the airline tax.
i-4082462800771aed-485	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not bragging that the environmental movement has chosen us as a green voice in parliament. That is something for which I thank and welcome, because it is those who have gone before me in this struggle who have done the solid work, and that is something I intend to live up to, as I said. It's not bragging, it's fact. That's it. We have been appointed the party with the best green policy – admittedly within the Alliance in some cases but also generally in other cases. Green tax exchange is something that we believe in very much, and it is just as I say that our philosophy, our vision, is that we have a society where it should cost to pollute and should not cost being a good player both on the market and as a private individual. As far as aviation fuel is concerned, let me say that we are not against the taxation of CO2, but we are against the categorical taxation of aviation, no matter how much CO2 it emits. Anyone who pollutes the most – the type of aircraft, the most polluting operator – will pay the most as well. But you should not punish aircraft that actually fly today with less CO2 harmful fuel. That is our view of the way in which the airline tax is to be designed, and we also believe that it should be designed on a European basis in order to have a real impact. This is only part of our policy, and we choose to see Europe as a clear player there. Sweden is fantastically good and will continue to be a leading country in the EU, but the EU should also be an example to the rest of the world.
i-4082462800771aed-488	Madam President, I would like The Green Party also supports, of course, the idea of creating an EU tax on aviation, but we know that it may take a very long time to obtain it. Therefore, the air tax that Sweden has now introduced is a parallel to air taxes that have been introduced in many other EU countries. You say, Tina Acketoft, that you would rather have a differentiated flight tax. But why hasn't the Liberals proposed it? You're suggesting that the airline tax be removed completely.
i-4082462800771aed-490	Madam President, I would like Yes, we choose to remove the airline tax as it stands today; that is quite right. However, it is important that we do not punish those operators who are actually doing good work today, but they are the ones who pollute more that should pay more. It is important that we raise and push the issue actively on a European basis. I am grateful that the Green Party is the player that we Liberals can hold in hand when we go out in that fight. If we are to make any real difference to the environment, we must ensure that those who can really use the least CO2 aggressive propellant and that this is done on a European basis and has a real impact on the environment.
i-4082462800771aed-492	Madam President, I would like The environmental budget that M and KD, together with SD, are now forcing through in the Riksdag involves major interventions in Sweden's environmental and climate policy. Many important initiatives that the government has implemented in recent years are deleted from this soot budget, and the trend is turned into a downward trend instead of a positive development. This naturally affects the situation in Sweden but also risks undermining Sweden's role as a driving force in the international and global climate and environment. It's very serious. This is where we have to face up to our responsibilities. The climate can't wait. The IPCC Scientific Panel on Climate Change has announced that it is urgent. Within the next ten years, we must reverse developments. Then we need to be climate positive, so get negative emissions in order for the emission budget to go together. The smaller the climate policy we will have in the next few years, the more difficult it will be to reach the climate targets in time. One of the research representatives of the IPCC, Markku Rummukainen, spoke at a seminar here in the Riksdag on the 1.5 degree target. Half a degree matters. The difference between one-and-a-half-degree and two-degree heating is alarming: hundreds of millions more people are exposed to water scarcity, and we are suffering irreversible losses from ecosystems. Madam President, I would like The financial framework for the state budget was established last Wednesday, in the middle of the ongoing climate summit in Katowice. It is almost an irony of fate that it is a budget with the biggest cuts in the climate area we have ever seen. I would have liked to have stood here today to talk about the transitional budget and the specific principles that have been developed for the design, the reconciliation with the parties' fiscal spokespersons and with the KU. Yet this system is not respected. However, SD does not want to be politically correct, i.e. stick to the rules of the game. But now two more parties have joined the SD chaos line. Madam President, I would like I am proud of what the Green Party has achieved for four years in the Red Green Government. We have a climate law in place, we have a climate policy framework and we have strengthened the budget for the environment, climate and nature. We have speeded up climate change and shown that even a small country can be a big role model. It is tac k be our strong green climate and environmental ministers. Now, however, we would need to speed up. Many municipalities, companies and individuals have taken important initiatives to become fossil-free, often in combination with the efforts initiated by the Red-Green Government. Economic instruments, investment aid and high-level objectives are important. To become the world's first fossil-free welfare country is a fantastic goal. Climate change will make Sweden an even better country to live in. Climate investments have taken off. Climate change is an overall national programme to switch Sweden from fossil dependence to a sustainable and climate-friendly society. It consists of support for a variety of measures. Currently, the programme is leading to a reduction of Sweden's climate emissions by about 1.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. This corresponds to emissions from 750 000 passenger cars, about 3 per cent of Sweden's emissions. This is about support for:
i-4082462800771aed-507	The examples I have just mentioned will be removed or severely cut by the M-KD-SD budget. A new investment in technology-neutral charging infrastructure of SEK 50 million does not weigh up for the large reduction in the climate scale, where SEK 840 million is removed. Madam President, I would like As a politician, I am interested in governance and leadership. I'm interested in political impact. Efficiency is a word used in the debate on climate investment aid. I would like to remind you that when we talk about efficiency, we are talking about two things: achieving the objectives in time and using resources efficiently. Effective climate and environmental policies are the policies that are actually implemented and that contribute to the reduction of emissions. By reducing some of the appropriations in the environmental budget by SEK 2.7 billion, Sweden's ability to achieve environmental and climate objectives is drastically reduced. It's irresponsible. It is relevant to compare with other policy areas. How many in this House believe that the number of crimes is decreasing or that we increase the possibility of solving crimes if we halve the budget to the police? No one. It is the same in the environmental field. I fear that M, KD and SD have listened deafly to the economists at the Institute of Economics. They have a very narrow approach. They do not include benefits or dynamic effects. Support is needed to stimulate innovation and develop businesses. The Green Party welcomes a serious discussion about efficiency, business development and how to build Sweden greener. Madam President, I would like Today is 100 days since the parliamentary elections. During the election campaign, all parties wanted to be environmental parties. Today we know that this is not the case. Now we see clearly that there are major differences between parties in terms of the environment, climate and nature. This, of course, makes it easier for the Green Party to win back in the next election all those voters who want Sweden to be the leader in climate policy, environmental policy and natural policy. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to say two things. I would like to mention the industrial life. It is a support that goes to investments in technology shifts in industry. The main example is SSAB's, LKAB's and Vattenfall's Hybrit project. There they work to develop a technology to be able to create steel without coal. However, in the soot budget, the opportunities to invest in more projects are severely reduced, and larger investments become impossible. Why do the right parties not want to invest in climate innovation in more heavy Swedish industrial companies? Emissions trading will not lead alone to the necessary technological renewal in industrial enterprises. Madam President, I would like The Environmental Protection Agency suffers major cuts. Including the project grants, the cuts are equivalent to 40% compared to the 2018 budget. It tops Donald Trumps's proposal when he took office as President in 2017. He then proposed cutting the U.S. Environmental Agency EPA by 30 percent. Fortunately, the U.S. Congress stopped that withdrawal. In our case, the Riksdag immediately makes a worse and larger reduction without more in-depth preparation. Madam President, I would like The Green Party strongly rejects the budget submitted by M and KD with support from SD. I refer to our equally strong opinion. That is why we are abstaining from our position.
i-4082462800771aed-517	Madam President, I would like Words such as soot budget, chaos line and slaughter are used, while at the same time claiming to want a serious discussion. It's hard to put it together. They call our budget a slaughter. That is why I would like to ask you a question. The environmental and climate budget that we have put on Parliament's table is higher than all the other environmental budgets that have passed this House, apart from the election budget at the latest. Maria Gardfjell wants to call our budget for slaughter. What, then, does she want to call the red-green budget that was in force just two years ago and that was 2 billion below the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget, or indeed the budget that was in force as late as a year ago and that was 1.3 billion below the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget?
i-G9ahnsU8oobqaHc2doheZ2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for the question. What do I call that budget? It is interesting to have a transitional budget. It's not a wish budget. The transitional budget is a scaled-down and rather boring story, which is only about maintaining the ability of the authorities to function when we have a transitional government. An environmental party budget in government would, of course, mean perhaps 2 billion extra to the environmental budget. A great deal has happened in recent years, not only because the Green Party has been in the Red Green Government, but also because knowledge of the situation in many areas has increased dramatically. We know that climate change is urgent. The situation of endangered species is at least as serious, if not more serious. We cannot watch humanity on earth threatened. We have to act. There is therefore a need for an increased focus on the environment and climate. It is clear that what you contribute to the work is a risk to the future. I can come back with some of the great risks that exist.
i-4082462800771aed-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the answer which unfortunately was an answer to a question I did not ask! I did not mention the transitional budget, but I mentioned the budgets that the Red Green Government has previously presented and which it has been proud of. So our budget, which is now hopefully going through in this House, is considerably higher than your budgets. At the end, Maria Gardfjell came to what she called the chaos line in her main speech, that is, that democratically elected members of our Parliament have passed a different draft budget from that presented by the government. To call it a line of chaos is to mock our democratic system. There are people living in the second part of the world who cannot enjoy our democratic system. I think they'd have some comments on that statement. Don't soak our democratic system, Maria Gardfjell!
i-4082462800771aed-527	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that if agreement has been reached in the Constitutional Committee, if the Minister of Finance has agreed with economic-political spokespersons on what a transitional budget should look like, then why enforce an ill-prepared M-KD budget in the Riksdag? You slaughtered funds for protection and management of a valuable nature, and this poses an increased threat to species. But the green cuts in the soot budget also mean that a lot of green jobs and even simple jobs disappear. Many actors in the green industry are affected. In fact, this budget is badly prepared. You haven't looked at the consequences. You tend to be very gentle and ask about all kinds of consequences when we meet ministers in different contexts. Here you have produced figures taken out of the air that you do not know what they will mean.
i-4082462800771aed-530	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that Mr Gardfjell represents a transitional budget. I have great respect for the fact that it is not one of the draft budgets that I and the honourable Member represent that appears to be going through in Parliament. I do not, therefore, intend to go too far into those draft budgets. I am also not going to spend time on what we usually debate and on which we do not usually agree. It concerns the protection of a valuable nature and how we view the role of forests in the transition. I have a rather straightforward question in view of the criticism that the honourable Member is making to another of our Liberal colleagues, namely that of a lack of green tax exchange. Looking back over the last four years, I see that the previous government has abandoned the idea of green tax exchange, the idea of raising taxes on what is harmful to the environment while reducing taxes on what is good. It also lowers taxes on labour. The previous government has increased taxes on labour many times more than on what is dangerous to the environment. In addition, taxes have been increased on renewable energy. Perhaps the clearest example is the proposal for a bonus – the Malus system that the previous government has implemented and the Center Party's proposal for a green car bonus that is actually the same technical model. Instead of maximising environmental benefits through the most effective green tax exchange possible, the former government took money out of the system. This means that we lose our environmental impact. My question to the honourable Member is: will the Green Party, in the coming term of office, push for the most effective green tax exchange possible?
i-4082462800771aed-535	Madam President, I would like Yes, that's a good question, Magnus Ek. First of all, I would like to say that I think it was record-breaking for the Center Party to increase the appropriations in your environmental budget and not to reduce them. We need to work much harder on a green tax shift now and in the future. Then one might ask: Why has nothing happened during the four years? The answer is quite simple. We had eight years of bourgeois rule when during that period both taxes on labour and environmental taxes were reduced very dramatically. What needed to be done was to strike a balance in the green tax exchange model and not just to continue the reductions in taxation on labour, but to achieve this balance. Now we are in a position where we need to take a strong grip on green tax exchange. We have a joint effort in the future to ensure that we get this in place.
i-4082462800771aed-539	Madam President, I would like That's interesting. The idea of a balance in the green tax exchange, I do not know that you have represented a great deal of zeal in the past. It cannot be that you simply wanted to withdraw money from the system. After all, the money was also transferred to completely different parts of the budgets. Although we cannot follow a budget, it did not look as a priority for green tax exchange, but other priorities were set which may well be worth doing. For my part, our party has given priority to other things. But I have not heard anything about the idea of balance in the green tax exchange before. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Green Party seems to want to work towards as effective a green tax shift as possible over the years that will not lose sight of reducing the tax rate when increasing environmental taxes. There is scope to increase environmental taxes. This is one of the elements that we in the Center Party would have liked to see in our budget motion. Although I do not like to seek conflict – believe it or not – I would like to say that I am not entirely sure that we agree on what to do with the grant to protect valuable nature. It is now a special situation. We do not have a fully quantified budget. If Mrs Gardfjell reads it, she will see that we have slightly different thoughts about what to do with the forest land.
i-4082462800771aed-542	Madam President, I would like I was not a Member of Parliament during the last parliamentary term. But I am politically interested, and I know how the discussion was conducted both before the 2014 elections and after the 2014 elections. Of course it was very important. Now we have a situation where M, KD and SD in their budget also reduce taxes a lot, including on labour. You do not increase environmental taxes, you also remove them. In the work ahead, we need above all to focus on increased environmental taxes. I hope that we can work with the Center Party on this.
i-4082462800771aed-545	Madam President, I would like This weekend the climate summit in Katowice, Poland, concluded, where the world's countries gathered to discuss one of the major issues of our time, the climate. A few weeks before that, a new report came from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and it was clear: it will take a huge amount if we are to meet the climate targets set in Paris, and not as it is now moving towards a three-degree warming. At the same time, the arm is thick when it comes to our seas and waters, with widespread problems with plastic, eutrophication and bottom death. Of course, it may seem gloomy, but there is hope. Man has always found solutions to difficult problems. I'm absolutely sure she can do it again. There is too much that is gloomy in the climate debate and that does not reflect what is actually happening outside this house. Svante Axelsson, coordinator of Fossil-free Sweden, has said: If you don't see the light in the tunnel, you won't get any action. And there is indeed light, even on the climate issue. Ask the Gothenburg company Powercell! It supplies fuel stacks to Nikola Motor's hydrogen trucks. It is a loading beam that has a range of 1,200 km, and their only discharge is water vapour. Trucks will be rolling on Norwegian roads by 2020. Ask Agroethanol in Norrköping! On their factory outlet, you can refuel grain-based ethanol that reduces emissions by up to 80 percent. After all, the carbon dioxide generated leads to Aga, which is located on the neighbouring property. There it is converted into carbonic acid into soft drinks. Ask ABB and Scandlines! They have ensured that you can take turns between Helsingborg and Helsingör on the world's first high-intensity ferry line with battery operation. Ask SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall! They have decided to make the world's first fossil-free steel. There's a resounding desire to change. There's hope. Now it is up to us – seven Swedish parliamentary parties, who have supported the world's perhaps most ambitious climate goals – to take advantage of the will and hope. We can certainly set a green example. But we must do three things in particular: Firstly, we must reduce our own emissions while allowing the economy to grow. In order to reduce emissions and support growth, the Moderates and Christian Democrats say no to symbolic measures that lack climate benefits, but yes to measures that make a real difference. Unfortunately, in recent years emissions have increased. That was not the case under the alliance government. At that time growth increased by 10 per cent, while emissions decreased by 19 per cent. That's where we have to go. This calls for our efforts to reduce emissions from our major sources of emissions. It is mainly about the transport sector and the basic industry. In our budget we propose, for example, the development of charging infrastructure for electric cars and hydrogen cars, in order to make it easier to choose an electric car across the country. It should also be borne in mind that many important climate measures are outside the budget, such as bonuses– malus and requirements for the involvement of biofuels. Here I am pleased that we have broad political support. In our budget, we are also investing in the restructuring of industry. In the long term, we want to see a more effective climate deduction for those who invest in revolutionary technologies that can drastically reduce emissions. But until then, we match every crown the previous government has set aside for the transition in the base industry. It is money that, for example, can go to capture and store carbon dioxide, as the UN Panel on Climate Change has also said is necessary if we are to meet the climate targets. Secondly, we shall contribute to technological leaps for global climate benefit. That is why we are investing a lot in our budget for environmental research, much more than the red-green ones have done. In future research proposals, we also want to see increased funding, including for applied research, to reduce emissions in the base industry. Here, Sweden can do real global benefit. Thirdly, we will help other countries to make a more sustainable growth journey than we have done ourselves. Through our budget, we take greater global responsibility by investing more in international climate investments and increasing climate aid by SEK 1 billion. The latter is an initiative that is not visible in this particular area of expenditure but is nevertheless an important part of our climate policy. In another part of the budget are also issues relating to our green industries. The Moderates and Christian Democrats spend over 1 billion more than is done in the transitional budget on the green industries, which are so important in our climate work. This budget is not just about climate. As you know, however, the environment and climate are often connected. Our seas have been hit hard because of the increased concentrations of carbon dioxide. On the environmental side, we make major investments in the marine and aquatic environment. Among other things, we want to intensify the Baltic Sea cooperation and clean the wastewater from pharmaceutical residues and microplastics. The Moderates and Christian Democrats have put an ambitious environmental and climate policy on Parliament's table. We are now doing exactly what we said before the election that we should do: we are settling up with symbolism policy and investing in what is doing real good, because the climate cannot wait. The climate does not have patience with experiments that are more benevolent than with efficiency. The climate demands precision. With this budget, we are taking important steps towards this very point. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-4082462800771aed-567	Madam President, I would like As I see it, there are billions of reasons to worry about Swedish environmental and climate policy in the coming years. Speaking of a previous replica shift, I would like to emphasise that what was advocated in 2016 is simply not enough in 2018, as far as we know. Maria Malmer Stenergard addresses some of the challenges we face. I cannot help thinking about how you can then throw the investments overboard that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has made transparent and serious calculations about. They could do great benefit to climate change. These have been completely thrown overboard. You have also thrown aside resources for environmental inspections as well as for the clean-up of contaminated land. How does this contribute to fulfilling Swedish climate commitments, which I hope and believe Maria Malmer Stenergard is well acquainted with and also wants to strive towards?
i-4082462800771aed-570	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for the questions, which are very important! There's an incredible rush. That is why we are now saying that we have to deal with the symbolic policy that has unfortunately marked the policy of the Red-Green Government. Hanna Westerén mentions the Climate Clive. Several assessors, including the Institute for Economic Development, have said that this is about money for measures that had been implemented anyway. We believe that this money can do better elsewhere. I would like to emphasise that the budget is a whole. We are reducing the appropriations in the area of expenditure we are debating today, when we say no to inefficient climate investments, such as subsidies for electric bicycles. At the same time, however, we are raising funding elsewhere that really creates climate benefits. This is about 1 billion more for aid. We are earmarking this to reduce CO2 emissions globally. It is also about 1 billion more for the green industries, which use their green fingers every day to bind carbon dioxide.
i-4082462800771aed-574	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Moderates and the Social Democrats are not listening to the same expertise. Perhaps the Moderates can still lend the industry their ear. In today's industry, we can read a comment from Gert Nilson, who is the technical director at Jernkontoret. He is very worried that the incentives to change will disappear and says: There are very few business reasons to turn into a fossil-free society. We do this for the sake of society, so society needs to be involved in supporting the process. ..................................................... The climate threat is here and now. That's what Maria Malmer Stenergard said. The need for measures to secure a common future is urgent. We also seem to agree on this in some strange way. How, though, can the tax cuts now in hand be so terribly urgent that the climate can stand back?
i-4082462800771aed-576	Madam President, I would like We have been extremely clear about the industrial life. I stand by it. In the long run, we want to turn it into a deduction, which we think is far more accurate. We have said from the outset that we want to do this in cooperation with industry. We may need to supplement it with investments in, for example, demonstration facilities and the like. But until we have investigated this carefully and prepared the proposal, we match every crown that the government has set aside for the industrial life. We do this because we want to create long-term prospects and better conditions for the industry. This is very important to us. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the government's efforts in the restructuring of the whole industry are lower than those made in subsidising electric bicycles.
i-4082462800771aed-578	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stenergard for her speech. You claim you're betting on the sea, Maria Malmer Stenergard. At the same time, however, in your budget, you are making major cuts to measures that benefit the seas. You remove a total of SEK 150 million from the funds used, among other things, to Keep Sweden Clean and clean up environmental toxins at sea. No one seems to want to take responsibility for the 23 000 barrels of mercury located at the bottom of Sundsvall Bay. This is clear after the county administrative board received opinions from the companies that the county administrative board considered to be responsible for dumping. During the period 1945 – 1968 vinyl chloride was produced in Stockvik south of Sundsvall. A residual product resulting from the production was mercury-containing catalyst mass, which was first buried in the factory area, but from 1951 to 1964 was dumped at sea. This isn't exactly a new discovery. But it is first with the Red-Green Government that the state budget had dedicated funds to clean up pollution in the sea. Now you are taking these funds out of the budget. What do you say to the Sundsvall people? Will the poison barrels be towed?
i-4082462800771aed-583	Madam President, I would like The environmental situation in our seas is extremely critical. Substantial efforts are needed to save marine ecosystems. The Baltic Sea, one of the world's most sensitive seas, is currently exposed to major environmental threats. Eutrophication from nutrient leakage and environmental toxins disrupt the ocean's ecosystems. Algal blooms and large areas with dead seabeds result. Strong action is now needed to gradually reverse developments. Therefore, we propose – if you read the budget carefully – that the funding for our marine and aquatic environments increase by SEK 200 million. This is therefore a priority task for us Moderates and Christian Democrats in the budget. One of the more important elements is to invest in international cooperation. Maria Gardfjell mentioned the plastic. 80% of the plastic coming to the west coast comes from other countries. It is quite clear that we need to strengthen international cooperation. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are taking important steps towards this with their budget.
i-4082462800771aed-586	Madam President, I would like The increase in funding for the sea is in fact a reduction. You state that 25 million will prevent the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. But at the same time, you remove the investment of SEK 200 million on wetlands, our natural filters. This is perhaps the most important part of the work against eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. All in all, it will be minus SEK 175 million in investment towards eutrophication of the sea. Isn't that a pretty weak bet?
i-4082462800771aed-587	It feels like Maria Gardfjell reads this budget that fucking reads the Bible. It is clear under appropriation 1:11, Measures for the marine and aquatic environment, that we increase this investment by SEK 200 million. It is also a priority that we have had in our budgets for a very long time. We are committed to increasing the LOVA contribution, which was created under the alliance government and which proved to be an effective measure to tackle eutrophication, the spread of toxic substances and the loss of biodiversity. A further part of the project is to invest heavily in modern treatment technologies in order to clean our waste water from pharmaceutical residues, microplastics and other toxins. Are not the measures that the Green Party and Maria Gardfjell can support?
i-5VSgmDo4HNjRavhL2WLBSk	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Maria Stenergard. I can start by saying that I agree with you when you say there is hope, because it really does. There is a great deal that is done very well and that could lead to us getting out of this crisis, although it also looks very sad in many places. But, therefore, I would like to ask: with all these hopeful efforts, is there really nothing more you could imagine spending the more than 2 billion we are talking about in order to strengthen the hopeful development you are talking about? It feels like there's a lot you could do there. Then I also want to stop a little by the forest. It is strange to have to remind the Moderates and Christian Democrats, as a left-wing party, of the value of their own ownership, but I intend to do it anyway. For many, the forest is a life investment. It is an investment that many care for their entire lives in order to live on as a pension, among other things. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, many forest owners are now next to receive compensation for their protected forests. It's a line of forest owners. I therefore wonder how you envisage that the compensation should continue to be paid and how more people who are not yet receiving this compensation will be able to receive it in the future.
i-4082462800771aed-590	Madam President, I would like I thank Elin Segerlind, not least for highlighting ownership. The first question was whether there is not 2 billion more to be put into hopeful action. I would like to say that the budget should be seen as a whole where we spend an additional 1.1 billion on green industries, which really show that they can be a very beautiful international example of how to reduce environmental emissions and climate emissions. There we can truly serve as an example. On the aid side, I have said before that we are spending 1 billion more than the transitional budget on reducing CO2 emissions internationally, that is to say, tackling the disease. And then to the favorite question, the ownership! Here I want to be extremely clear. If the State claims land and prevents use, compensation shall be paid. Unfortunately, during the past term of office, we have seen how the government's policy has led to uncertainty for those who are doing such an incredibly important job for both the climate and biodiversity of our forests. It is the long-term use of families for generations that have created the fine values that so many now want to protect. We therefore stop the key biotope inventories until they can be done in a legally secure manner. I would also like to remind you that there are several ways of providing compensation to those who cannot fully use their land. For example, these could be forest change programmes, which the Alliance has launched to re-establish.
i-4082462800771aed-594	Madam President, I would like That is a little what I wanted to come to, because that is what one has to choose from: either to stop protecting the forest that we have and that we need to protect or to stop giving compensation to those who have a protected forest. You seem to choose the first option. I hope that we will find a solution to this as soon as possible. You are talking about the budget as a whole. I wonder how tax cuts such as the sixth job tax deduction could somehow help the environment. I can't see it. I am also thinking about the scenario we are now moving towards, when we see that we will achieve only 2 of our 16 national environmental objectives. It is a very short budget you have presented. In what way do you see that we are going to achieve those goals, or do you simply see that we are not going to retain the national environmental objectives?
i-4082462800771aed-597	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should have very ambitious environmental objectives and strive to live up to them, although we have seen alarming developments in recent years. We will not stop protecting, but we must have some sense in the debate. We can see, based on the government's own wording in the strategy for the forest programme, that 31 per cent of Sweden's forest land is already excluded from use. The question is: How much do you really want to exempt? Last week, in our unions here in the Riksdag, a new study from the Swedish National Audit Office, which has found that work on forest protection has so far been largely focused on quantity instead of quality and that a change is needed there. Finally, the sixth job tax credit provides more money in the wallet for consumers. More money in the wallet together with greater knowledge and conscious choices can really make a big difference in the climate work.
i-4082462800771aed-600	I would like to remind Members once again that we are not talking to each other in the speaker's seat and that we are using first names and surnames when addressing them.
i-4082462800771aed-601	Madam President, I would like In the area around Gangesdeltat in Bangladesh, the population is building their houses on high stakes. That area has been the subject of severe floods for millennia. It's nothing weird. It is located at the Gange, which flows from the Himalayas all the way down to the Indian Ocean. But in recent years the floods have become much worse. There have been more storms, and the water has risen from year to year. It's basically getting higher every time the tide rises. The land that is there and the islands that are in the delta disappear bit by bit in the sea and in the delta. The locals say their homes are eaten by the sea. This is a development that has gone quite quickly. It is in recent decades that this has begun to happen. Thousands and thousands of people have been forced to flee these very areas. It is estimated that about 100 000 people a year flee the Ganges delta and the surrounding area because of the climate. The water comes from two directions to the Ganges Delta. It's rising and rising from the Indian Ocean. At the same time, more and more melting water comes from the glaciers of the Himalayas. People are already forced to flee – 100 000 people a year in Bangladesh alone – due to climate change. These are things that we should very well discuss in our Parliament too, because the climate and the changes in the world are connected. It is not just a country's responsibility, it is everyone's responsibility. It is mankind's future that is at stake. At the same time, we see how extreme drought is in many parts of the world. Sweden has been mentioned here, but it is even worse in many other parts of the world. In the Horn of Africa, millions of people are threatened by hunger today. We see – I say this to those who are interested in nature, the environment and species wealth – how the world's coral reefs are dying out right now. In 2016, we saw 29 percent of the Great Barrier Reef die – in one year. Already, more than 50 percent of the coral reefs that existed 40 years ago have died. So we see enormous consequences. We will find it difficult to explain to our children and grandchildren what happened and why we did not do enough to stop this. Ban Ki Moon, the former Secretary General of the UN, describes the situation for the world something like this: Earth is like a boat on a very large ocean in the universe. The earth is a lonely little planet, and we are there. But if the boat sinks, there are no lifeboats. There is also no other boat or planet we can move to. The responsibility for this planet is our shared responsibility, and we need to take it now. A great deal has been said today about the IPCC report, i.e. the United Nations Panel on Climate Change's report. It has been mentioned several times before here in Parliament how important that report is. It shows how serious the situation in the world is right now and, above all, how serious the situation is for future generations if we do nothing. The IPCC report shows that we have about ten years to meet the target of one and a half degrees. Otherwise, the earth will become even warmer, and it will have extreme consequences for large parts of the earth. We can see what is happening right now in Bangladesh. According to existing estimates, about a fifth of Bangladesh's surface area is likely to disappear in just a few decades. We see that the other consequences, as I mentioned, already exist today. What if we fail to meet this within ten years? This makes me very worried, and I understand and hope that it makes everyone in this room and everyone in Sweden very worried. You feel that you have a responsibility to meet these challenges. We can do something real that also matters. It makes you sad to see the budget that has now been passed, which comes from Moderates and Christian Democrats who have been supported by Swedish democrats. It really strikes the environment and climate. In particular, I would like to say that one is particularly sad when one looks at the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. It is no news that I am usually disappointed when I read the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, and it will be most of them here in Sweden. But the proposals of the Swedish Democrats go far beyond what is proposed by KD and M. The Swedish Democrats proposed in their budget to cut by about 4 billion in environmental and climate funds – 4 billion. That is more than a third of the environmental and climate funds that we have here in Parliament. It would have extremely serious consequences to cut back in this way. Someone mentioned Trump here. What Trump did is absolutely a disaster, but a lot of it was stopped. The Swedish Democrats want to do exactly the same here, but much worse. In fact, I brought an Ipad– I have SD's budget there – because I want to read out some of the cuts made by the Swedish Democrats. It is quite important that it is mentioned in Parliament's Chamber. Not many people read the Swedish Democrats' budget. What do they really want? It is important that it is mentioned here. I also know that it will be written down for the outside world. I would like to mention this, because it is, after all, the budget that we are discussing here today, among other things. For example, the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency by 206 million. The aim is to reduce environmental monitoring by 53 million. Measures for valuable nature are set to be reduced by 200 million. The aim is to reduce the climate bonus system by over 1 billion – 1 240 000 000. SMHI also has an attack. The Swedish Democrats have previously disliked SMHI, because they think that SMHI when they talk about climate change conducts politics. I don't think so. SMHI does what they're supposed to do. They see what's happening and inform us who live in the country about it. Valuable environment also gets minus over 1 billion. Climate investment gets minus over 11⁄2 billion. In total, therefore, it is just under 4 billion that the Swedish Democrats are pulling down. I would like to ask Martin Kinnunen: how do the Swedish Democrats think here? Above all, I have two fairly important questions that I have even written up here and to which I actually want answers from the Swedish Democrats. When I read about the policy of the Swedish Democrats, I get very confused. On the one hand, you hear Martin Kinnunen say here that they are passionate about environmental issues. They will fight for the sea, and climate is an important issue. On the other hand, they reduce disaster a lot on these efforts and actually want to destroy the climate we have. I would like to ask Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats about two things. I really want us to get this clear. The first question is: Are the Swedish Democrats behind the Paris Agreement? I find it very difficult to interpret it from the policy of the Swedish Democrats and the statements they hear from the Swedish Democrats. Are the Swedish Democrats behind the Paris Agreement? The second question is: Do the Swedish Democrats believe that the climate issue is the destiny of our time, as the rest of us do? Do the Swedish Democrats think so? Is this the fate of our time?
i-4082462800771aed-621	Madam President, I would like It is positive that Magnus Manhammar reads the Swedish Democrats' budget motion. I'm glad it worked with the code in the end. 中 Disaster! There were a lot of hard words here. I think we can talk about what we want to change. What we want to change in our budget motion is the environmental policy of the previous Red-Green Government, which survives in the transitional budget as it works. What are we pulling down on? Among other things, forestry policy. But that's because it's counterproductive. It helps to seize forests from Swedish foresters, who today take good care of their forests. It has climate bonuses that go to subsidise electric cars for the richest people and for companies that lease out the cars and then take them back and sell them to Norway so that it will be the Norwegian people who will take part of this billion-dollar investment. It has climate initiatives in municipalities and county councils that, among other things, go to climate anxiety courses. Yeah, we're slaughtering this. We want to slaughter such inefficient efforts, because we do not need climate anxiety courses. It is nothing that saves the climate or helps to reduce CO2 emissions. We are, of course, in favour of the Paris Agreement. I have said that many times in this House. The honourable Member is new to the committee, so I can make that clear for the sake of the matter. We need a more effective climate policy. We cannot believe that we are reducing emissions by mixing worse fuels into our car tanks. That is what we are doing today – we are thinking about palm oil and other biofuels that are worse from a climate benefit perspective while at the same time costing more and reducing tax revenues. It is a bad policy that we must cut back on.
i-4082462800771aed-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Martin Kinnunen! I'm glad I got an answer, and I'm grateful that Martin Kinnunen told me a little bit about politics and actually answered one of my questions. That's very much appreciated. According to Martin Kinnunen, the Swedish Democrats are behind the Paris Agreement. In that case, it is commendable, but it is a bit of a pity that the policy that the Swedish Democrats are pushing does not live up to what we need to even get close to the measures that we have said we should do according to the climate agreement that we concluded in Paris. I've seen before that Martin Kinnunen thinks this way. I checked in Aftonbladet, and it says on 9 August this year that Martin Kinnunen says that the Swedish Democrats are behind the Paris Agreement. It can be a bit funny to see if you follow what the Swedish Democrats otherwise say about climate policy. I brought a printout from DN, where Åkesson explains how he views climate policy. Åkesson tells DN that it is better if Sweden leaves the climate agreement. This is what he said in Almedalen in 2017. There are several other representatives of the Swedish Democrats who express themselves very negative about the climate agreement and who think that the Paris Agreement does not seem to be a good idea. Is it something special for Martin Kinnunen that he is in favour of the Paris Agreement while the Swedish Democrats are not? If the Swedish Democrats are now in favour of the Paris Agreement, as Martin Kinnunen says, why do they not have a policy that in some way tries to enable us to live up to the commitments we have taken on in the climate agreement? What I'm really wondering is what's going on. Is that what Martin Kinnunen says or what Jimmie Åkesson says?
i-4082462800771aed-634	Madam President, I would like What applies is the policy we represent here in Parliament. You can read different quotes in different newspapers. You can think about how it really sounded and if the journalist quoted correctly. You can do that. However, we can make this clear by leaning on the accompanying motion that we had in dealing with the Paris Agreement, where it was clear that we were behind the agreement but not how it was adopted because it was adopted before the terms were negotiated in the EU. The Swedish Democrats are responsible for an effective environmental and climate policy. That is why we have a billion-dollar investment in climate investment abroad, in new research and development and in new nuclear power. That's what we need. The problem in the world that we have so high CO2 emissions, that we burn so much coal and oil, is because there is no suitable technology for producing clean energy.
i-4082462800771aed-637	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that the Swedish Democrats say that they are investing in the climate while at the same time wanting to cut the environmental and climate budget by a third. It speaks clearly about what the Swedish Democrats really want with climate and environmental issues here in Parliament. Martin Kinnunen says that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of the Paris Agreement and even in the vote here in Parliament, although they had some kind of different opinion – it was not prepared enough, or it was not finished. Let's see how the Swedish Democrats then voted. I think it is important not to deceive the voters. How did the Swedish Democrats vote in this House? I brought the results of the vote. All parties voted 'yes' except the Swedish Democrats – 39 'no'. It says here how all the people voted. Here we even have Martin Kinnunen. It is clear that he voted against the climate agreement. I think it is important for the Swedish people to know that. The climate policy of the Swedish democrats is not us, not here, not now. There's someone else, somewhere else, some other time. It's not responsible.
i-4082462800771aed-641	Madam President, I would like I would like to add a little bit to the question of forestry and forest protection. I also want to start off positively. Together with Finland, Sweden probably has the best forestry in the world. In a hundred years we have been able to increase the forest area and the volume of growing timber and at the same time the felling volumes and the volume of increasingly advanced products that we make of the forest. In the forest, together with Finland, we are also leaders in bioeconomy. Sweden's CO2 emissions have decreased since the 1970s, as Hanna Westerén spoke about. They have decreased from the ten tonnes per capita of the 1970s and year to today's four tonnes per capita per year. The main reasons for this are, firstly, the expansion of nuclear power around 1980 and, secondly, the forestry industry's efforts to make efficient use of energy from all forest products. Now it's about bioeconomy. It is now about developing new products in the form of textiles, building materials and fuels. These materials replace others that have led to more carbon dioxide emissions than we will get from forest products. The state can make a great deal of use by supporting such technology development, which can then also be spread to other countries and help internationally with CO2 reductions and improved climate. While doing all this, we have been good at preserving our rare species. Unlike in tropical areas, there is no extinction in Swedish forests. Our everyday concerns in forestry have developed for a long time now and become increasingly better, as well as our knowledge of which species are most in need of consideration. There are three main reasons for this success story. One reason is that the state owns forests, but so do companies and individuals. This diversity of owners contributes to a mosaic of forests with different management, which is good for biodiversity and gives us greater opportunities to flexibly meet changes in market demand. Another reason is committed forest management by private owners who want to pass on a better forest to their children than they themselves once inherited. The third reason is that since the beginning of the 20th century we have had a reliable cooperation between forest owners and the Swedish Forest Board's field organisation, which has tried to teach each other and solve the problems together. This function is extremely important and must be protected. It explains the long-term nature and pride of Swedish forest management. In most other countries, forest plans are made for perhaps ten years to come. In Sweden, we work with at least a hundred years when we plan how forest resources should be managed. Madam President, I would like During the previous parliamentary term, the state has spent a lot of money on rapidly increasing areas of formally protected forests. However, between voluntary and state intervention there is an important threshold of trust that cannot be crossed without serious consequences. Only if we deal with this issue responsibly in this House can forestry continue to be a success story. It is true, as has been said by many here, that in our draft budget we want to reduce the allocation for Category of Expenditure 20 to 8 billion. It lies between what the government committed for the years 2016 and 2017 respectively. One big difference is that we want to remove appropriations for new forest protection until the entire system has been reviewed. Instead of a rapid increase in areas that are excluded from owners' farming, we want to focus more on the continued development of voluntary environmental considerations in forestry. We want the Swedish Forest Agency to regain its role as an encouraging organisation, which pays grants for nature friendly use of particularly rare biotopes. But the important function of the Swedish Forest Board should primarily be the dialogue with forest owners. We have also heard that 25-30 per cent of Sweden's forests are already away from forestry. We do not think that this area needs to increase. There may be a need for further redistribution, and we will work on this together for a long time to come. Apart from the fact that the areas withheld are increasing very rapidly now, unfortunately, the areas in the grey area between formally protected and not formally protected are also increasing. Landowners are refused permission to harvest, but the compensation lags behind during the investigation of what is to be done with the land. Another grey area concerns key biotopes. The State has commissioned Skogsstyrelsen to take stock of more key biotopes, although it is known that this leads to landowners being unable to harvest or receive compensation. It is a cynical way of exploiting a mismatch, where key biotopes and forest certification lead to landowners not being able to sell their timber. That is why we now want to stop taking stock of key biotopes. We want the state to help the parties arrive at a sensible solution of this knot. When forests are not allowed or cannot be felled, compensation shall be paid. This is not a small problem. The key biotopes already amount to 470 000 hectares, which is a large part compared to how much old, end-of-life forests we have. That's where the key biotopes are. Madam President, I would like Effective nature conservation is not the maximum area; it is the maximum benefit of the efforts we make. We have already heard a reference to the Swedish National Audit Office's comment on quality versus quantity. The urgency that seems to exist leads to strange decisions. The LRF has pointed out cases where logging has been refused or restricted with very doubtful justifications. Various agricultural magazines overflow with such cases. Many of these logging stops have become legal cases. Before the elections, the government has listened to this criticism on a number of important points. The Species Protection Regulation will now be reviewed. It is used today to stop fellings, sometimes on dubious grounds and without real conservation benefits. These may be the presence of common species such as feathers or lichens. The Administrative Act has recently been revised to clarify the principle of proportionality. It means that officials must take into account that the public benefit of a measure shall exceed the harm to the individual. We hope that this will contribute to better respect for the work of forest owners. Unfortunately, there are also changes in the negative direction. Kammarkollegiet has brought a case to court, which claims that halted felling should not provide compensation as forestry is not considered as ongoing land use. This in turn is due to the fact that these are low-productive forests with long intervals between fellings. However, the basic situation shall be that non-protected forestry is considered as ongoing land use. In an investigation commissioned by the Government, it is also proposed that expropriation of certain land should be possible without compensation to the landowner. I do not believe that these two stories will lead to a change of practice. I am convinced that the government will protect property rights. Let us hope and make sure that this is the case. Madam President, I would like We want an end to increased areas of formally protected land until the current situation is resolved. It is important to restore trust between forest owners and authorities. We want more focus on supporting landowners in their work to achieve everyday considerations in forestry. Environmental protection is about finding the most effective balance between different interests: ecology, economy and the welfare and welfare of rural people. The balance needs to be restored. We need a half-fat. We are ready to discuss solutions with anyone who wants to. We are ready, as it now seems, to give active support to good proposals from all who have them.
i-4082462800771aed-668	Madam President, I would like Mats Nordberg, it's only a few months since the World Wildlife Fund presented its Living Planet Report here in the Riksdag House. Among other things, it was said that the eradication of wildlife must be on the political agenda. To save nature and our future, strong political agreements are needed. It called on all policy makers to act now. In a press release the same day, it was said that the appropriations for nature protection and management should be increased to EUR 4 billion per year. The extinction of species is ongoing around the world, and efforts are needed to protect species and important habitats. But cutting off nature conservation does not just remove the carpet for biodiversity and people's access to nature. It also makes it more difficult for forest owners who have valuable nature on their land. We believe that it is important for the Swedish tradition of nature conservation and to work both with protection of valuable nature and with conservation measures in forestry. We believe that forest owners, like farmers, should be able to receive more compensation than at present for the work they are doing on conservation measures. We also believe that farmers who take special responsibility for nature conservation should be able to combine this with good economics for their economic activities. But, Mats Nordberg, then the resources in the state budget are needed to replace the forest owners.
i-4082462800771aed-672	Madam President, I would like I think I can endorse almost all these points. Firstly, there is the extinction or disappearance of forests in large parts of the world, and sometimes there is an unfortunate connection with the Swedish situation. When it comes to Nagoya, for example, we are talking about protecting more forest. In the tropical part of the world, it is really a matter of ensuring that the forest remains. It is removed and replaced by, for example, oil palms, as we all know. The species that are there have often lived in the same place for hundreds of millions of years, have evolved there and are endemic. In our case, all forests are protected in that we have protection for land use; this is difficult to change. In fact, the forest area is increasing in Sweden. It does not decrease at all as in New Guinea or Brazil. And, as has already been said, between 25 and 30 % of forests are already excluded from forestry. The best way to help landowners protect nature is to let them manage their forest as they want, but in dialogue with the Swedish Forest Agency. Of course, we also want to step up efforts to find ways to help them manage their land with EU funding for increased conservation. If you compare the extremely few, if any, species that have disappeared in forestry with the number of species that have disappeared on agricultural land, you can see that agricultural land has about ten times as many lost species per unit area. That is where, above all, we need to make efforts, preferably with European funds. This means, for example, that pastures with more trees or smaller pasture grass also provide EU subsidies. The compensation for farmers who may manage the land a little less efficiently than the most modern methods but who preserve species need to be so high that it actually pays farmers to do this.
i-4082462800771aed-677	Madam President, I would like It is quite often you hear the argument that we get more forest in Sweden. The fact is that the regrowth of Sweden is increasing and the open landscapes are disappearing, which means that we get more forest. This is one of the factors, and it is unfortunate to welcome that development. Mats Nordberg, you say you want to stop the inventory of so-called key biotopes. To say no to key biotopes is to say no to a knowledge base that can be very valuable also for the individual forest owner. Removing the investments in key biotopes, which are to go to forest owners, or the investments in protection, which are to go to forest owners with key biotopes, also affects those forest owners who already have inventoryed land today. What is important for forest owners is the possibility to get a higher price on the market for products that are produced with a nature-oriented forestry with FSC marking. Do you want to stop the FSC label?
i-4082462800771aed-680	Madam President, I would like No, we are not against either key biotop inventory or certification. But what has happened is that there has become a knot here. When we in Sweden started this with microbiotopes and certification systems in the mid-1990s, key biotopes were a very small phenomenon. It was perhaps a few tens of thousands of hectares. Now it has become 470 000 hectares. When negotiating the rules for certification, it was not thought that it would be a big deal, so it agreed to the rules for FSC on the one hand to make voluntary provision of 5%, and on the other hand that companies would not buy wood from key biotopes. It created an element 22, where a landowner who is not certified cannot sell wood from a key biotope. And note that key biotopes are not a form of protection, but, as you say, an inventory. However, it is a system that needs to be reformed that must not be cut off and that cannot be compensated for. That is why we want you to sit down and talk about this and find a solution. If you are not allowed to harvest, you must have compensation. Today is not the case.
i-A8PVgG1VD5hUcmHeGiWrn5	Madam President, I would like It is 1:52 p.m. on December 18, 2018, with 409 PPM in the atmosphere and less than 25 percent of the land area in the natural state. Now we stand here and discuss, in retrospect, a budget that has laid the framework for the future. When M and KD do not have time to prepare and analyse the consequences of their economic policy, it feels as if they have instead chosen to back down in time. We are backing back decades, and much of the work that has been done on gender equality, humanity, culture, environment, climate and nature is now largely destroyed. I entered politics in the midst of a climate crisis and an extinction of species, in a man-made era called anthropocene, where we humans are the biggest driving factor, for I have realised that it is neither knowledge, commitment nor awareness that is lacking, but it is the political will. We now see this in black and white when the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, choose to remove the environment from the agenda. Perhaps someone is watching and thinking: This has been evaluated and discussed, has it not? Then I want to say that the answer is: No, it has not. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency loses about 40 per cent of its total funding, and it was only found out when the decision was made. The green sector and rural areas will be severely affected, with more than 1 500 lost jobs and no compensation due to this ill-thought-out budget. How can Sweden act as a model for other countries when we actively reintroduce fossil subsidies for hundreds of millions at the expense of future generations? How can we give hope to the people who protest every Friday outside the Riksdag for politicians to listen to the researchers and really change and prioritise the environment? In M's and KD's budget, half of the appropriation is lost to a valuable nature. It disappears SEK 750 million from that post. At a time when we have to do much more, they choose to cut back. How can we ever achieve our national and international biodiversity targets with these cuts? Madam President, I would like What we are seeing now is a budget that has been put through thanks to a pact, which has given the right-wing conservative body sufficient strength to carry out a total environmental slaughter. This happens at a time when we lose species at a raging rate, before your puzzle is laid! But the last word is not said. I will do everything in my power to prevent this contract. And, yes, I'm sure there are those who say thank you for sinking their treasure and for lying flat for the mighty elite, but remember that it's quite small. The people affected by your cuts will hardly pay homage to your destructive deeds. It is not enough to benefit the few percent and live on as if nothing has happened yet. Since I was born, the planet has been heated by half a degree. We need to discuss this in Rosenbad. We politicians must take a much greater responsibility while there is still something left. More than 935 species have already been lost. What we have to do now cannot wait until then. Madam President, I would like I thought we could all, regardless of party, feel fundamental empathy for this planet. But no, now I'm in the middle of it! I can only say that I deeply regret that there are politicians who do not even care about the environment these days.
i-4082462800771aed-688	Madam President, I would like We have now listened to the positions of the various parties regarding the budget for the environment and nature conservation. There is no surprise that opinions differ, but there is actually a passage in the budget report on which all parties agree. This concerns the committee's follow-up to the government's performance report. This year, therefore, it is a question of the transitional government's accounting. As chairman of the Monitoring and Evaluation Group of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, I will tell you a little about this section, which can certainly be perceived as very technical and cameralt. But the fact is that what is presented is valuable information that is supposed to form the basis for our further work in committee. Observing the work of the government is a task that all committees of the Riksdag should be engaged in, and it is actually inscribed in both the form of government and the Budget Act. The purpose is good. It is a question of the committees being informed of the extent to which the measures that have been decided to invest in, and in different ways to deal with, the intended results and whether the laws that we have adopted have had the intended effect. The Committee on Environment and Agriculture has been working systematically on this task since 2007. In this way, they have worked out, together with the officials of the committee's office and the Government Office, many good indicators that will allow us to better monitor developments. What about today? As general information, I can mention that Swedish environmental policy is based on 16 environmental quality objectives and a generational goal that the Riksdag has decided on. The objectives are thus guiding all environmental work carried out by Sweden nationally, within the EU and internationally. In general, the government, together with the responsible authorities – this is something that Elin Segerlind also mentioned – estimates that progress is moving in the right direction only for two target areas. It is about the objectives of Fresh air and only natural acidification. They also argue that the development is negative for five of the objectives and that it is not possible to see a clear direction for the development of the remaining nine. This is, of course, a remarkable progress report. This also indicates that it is of the utmost importance for the committee to continue its systematic work on these issues. In this year's follow-up, we have focused on four of the environmental quality objectives. It's about Limited Climate Impact, No Eutrophication, Non-toxic Environment and Living Lakes and Watercourses. I should like to mention in particular some of the observations made by the committee in relation to these areas. This applies, among other things, to the highly topical climate issue, where we believe that the government should also report on what measures have been taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions abroad. I am thinking here of emissions that have arisen as a result of Swedish consumption. As regards the objective of no eutrophication, the committee is concerned about the development, which shows little ground for recovery. With regard to the objective of a non-toxic environment, however, we are pleased that Sweden is working actively within the EU, because we believe that the very international work means a lot to enable us to meet expectations about this goal. Finally, with regard to the objective of living lakes and watercourses, we do not have an analysis showing the conflicts that may arise between the environmental quality target in question and beach-by-shore construction. We therefore assume that the future government will meet this request and will also act on the announcement that Parliament has decided on in relation to the Water Directive. Overall, we in the committee want to see more impact assessments in the long term that can give a greater insight into how different measures can affect each other and what conflicts of interests may then arise. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to express my thanks to all the party representatives in the evaluation group and to the officials who have assisted us. I hope for continued good cooperation.
i-4082462800771aed-699	Madam President, I would like I've been careless about signing up, but I hope I have time for everything I want to say in four minutes. Let me start with the positive. It seems to be a trend that we should start with the positive that is happening, and there is a lot of positive that is happening in Sweden. At Teknikverken in Linköping, liquid biogas is now produced. This is super exciting for future challenges with heavy transport and replacing fossil energy carriers in industry. Around Sweden, almost 20,000 charging points have only been installed in the last three years. The Zoo Park in Eskilstuna now uses animal poop to use it as biocarbon – an incredibly exciting project. All these investments individually may not give an incredible amount, but there are many streams small. Around Sweden there are about 2 000 climate projects that are supported by the Climate Centre, which is the government's major investment programme in the climate transition. This corresponds to emission reductions of 1 570 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. Thus, many streams are small and lead to a very positive climate effect. Now the new Conservative bloc in Swedish politics has announced that the fun is over. They cut down heavily on the Climate Scene, but they do not stop there and continue with, for example, the e-bike premium, which has become some kind of symbol that the Conservative Right always points to when you want to cut into climate policy. It is ironic because the e-bike premium is one of the most effective and accurate investments in the government budget. It is aimed directly at vanebilists who prompt will use their diesel suv or against old people who may not be able to ride on a regular cycle. It is documented worldwide that such efforts have produced a clear climate effect. One might, say some, object to the fact that the effectiveness of each bet is questionable. I usually say that there are lies, cursed lies and economic calculations that don't understand political science insights. This is one example where we do not understand that we need to invest more money. It is quite clear that one might question the effectiveness of some of the efforts but does not realise that the climate and environmental budget still represents only about 1% of the total state budget. To say that we should cut it down is really remarkable. On the contrary, money should be redirected, if that is what you think is so important. However, we do not stop at a drastic cut-off or cut-off in the budget appropriations themselves, but what we are actually doing is moving to what can be said to be a brown tax shift, that is to say, we are greatly reducing taxes or taking away taxes on what is damaging the climate. At a time when we know that we will need to do more on all points in order to reduce emissions, we are removing the only way we have to regulate emissions from aviation. The tax on releasing fossils is being drastically reduced. The budget is the nail in the coffin of the myth that there would be no differences in climate policy in Sweden. On the contrary, the differences are drastic. These are huge cuts and a negative tax shift, where it is simply cheaper to release carbon dioxide.
i-4082462800771aed-707	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in an exceptional political situation. Never before have we had a government in place more than three months after an election. Never before has a majority of the Riksdag voted away a prime minister without having a plan for what will follow. And as a result, we have never had a transitional budget at Parliament's table. This does not mean that we can assume that this is a one-off event. As the political landscape develops, here as well as in the world around us, we must assume that it can happen again, and we must realise that we are now putting practice not only for here and now but perhaps for a long time to come. This has guided how we Social Democrats have chosen to handle the process, both in the Government Office and here in Parliament. As a result of the Prime Minister's rejection, we received a transitional government that administers in accordance with the form of government. It cannot take political initiatives, it cannot resign and it cannot call new elections. However, it must submit a budget to Parliament within a fixed timeframe. Accordingly, principles were negotiated as to what a transitional budget should be, what it should contain and what it could not contain, widely based on a majority of the parliamentary parties. The budget submitted met all the criteria and principles. It was not a budget that expressed the political will of any party but a budget that prepared for a new government to have the widest possible mandate and scope to present an amending budget on the basis of its political platform. It is quite reasonable to think that, on the basis of the situation we are in, a transitional government without political powers is presenting a transitional budget pending the entry into force of a new government. It should be just as reasonable for that budget to be passed. It should be in everyone's interest that we now put in place practices that involve responsible and orderly processes, and we should all think that a new government, whatever it may be, should be allowed to own and take responsibility for the state budget. Everything else is completely unreasonable and indiscriminate. Unfortunately, it has turned out that responsibility and good judgment are no longer something one can expect from all parties in the Swedish parliament. Because even though we have to take a position on a budget which follows the principles on which virtually everyone agreed would apply to a transitional budget, several parties with the Moderates at the forefront chose to put forward their own budgetary motions anyway. It was done with justifications that are there are societal challenges that can't wait, and a transitional government, but we don't have a transitional holiday", which of course is true but not relevant. Major societal challenges are not best addressed in a budget exercise. They require an on-the-spot government with mandates and powers to act and to take responsibility. In times of transitional government, it is harder, not easier, for the Riksdag to be calm, to exercise self-discipline and to put Sweden's best before party political tactics. As I said, we are not a transitional holiday. We are the Swedish Parliament. With it comes the responsibility to ensure that the country can be ruled. Unfortunately, the process we are witnessing is not an expression of either sense and balance or order, order and responsibility. After having first submitted their own motions on the theme of what the heart is full of, the Moderates and Christian Democrats decided that it was not messy enough but that during the current budget process they would also sign up for a joint proposal with new texts and new budget tables. The Swedish Democrats, of course, did not want to be worse, so they first voted through the framework of the Moderates and Christian Democrats and then, as usual, did not take responsibility for their actions. 45 minutes after the framework was put in place in the House, only 4 members of the committee supported the content. They managed to move from ill-considered to unserious. Then the biggest concern is not even that we are now taking decisions that are poor or non-existent, where the consequences for authorities, municipalities and individuals are not transparent, but that with this we are now putting a new practice not only for how a transitional budget should be managed but also for how we respect agreements and for what responsibility the Riksdag takes for order. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. All parties always have the right to exercise on any proposal that comes from a government. Nobody's questioning me. But that does not mean that it is always appropriate. What is appropriate is what we shape practice around. Practices change over time, through agreements or through how we choose to act. Let me be even clearer. Criticism is also not about the parliament deciding the government's budget. It's happened before, and it's likely to happen again. But the normal and reasonable thing when it happens is that the government has the option of resigning or announcing new elections. That is something that this government, as you know, cannot do. We are therefore in an exceptional situation, something that should have made all parties calm. Finally, I will say a few words about Category 24. The changes in the transitional government's budget in this area were all the result of the agreed principles for a transitional budget. The changed framework, which was voted through by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, and the new content as a result of the framework, which was subsequently only supported by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, are essentially what was announced earlier by the previous government and which would thus probably have been implemented by a new government regardless. I can see that if the budgetary movements are something to go on, which is to be assumed to be the arguments for the importance of presenting them, the level of ambition in the field of economic policy, foreign trade, exports and investment promotion is appallingly low. We Social Democrats have not raised any motion, as we still believe that the transitional budget should have been passed. Our intention is to formulate our policy in this area in an amending budget or in a motion on it. Since we do not support the framework decision that has been adopted, we are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure and refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party.
i-4082462800771aed-723	Madam President, I would like I reacted to a few points in what Jennie Nilsson said. She suggested that it would be irresponsible for the Riksdag to decide on an individual motion in response to a budget bill. I do not think so, Madam President. With this, we will have more police officers, shorter care queues, longer school days, stronger defences, reduced tax rates for everyone who works, reduced tax rates for all pensioners and a series of entrepreneurial reforms. On the contrary, I think it is quite responsible. Jennie Nilsson also indicated that this would not be fully prepared. In the Committee on Economic Affairs and in other parliamentary committees, I believe, we have endeavoured to comply with the legal requirements relating to the preparation of matters. Many of these proposals have been prepared in the Government Office and can be considered fully prepared. We were also clear in the Committee on Industry's work on the matter that all Members are free to make proposals, for example if we ask any particular authority or anyone else to come to committee. The Social Democrats and Jennie Nilsson did not come up with such proposals, but fully supported in committee that this can be considered fully prepared in accordance with the rules in force. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is a question of whether or not reforms should be implemented. I can have respect for saying that we should wait, as Jennie Nilsson says. That is absolutely a reasonable position. However, to suggest that this would not be prepared or that it would be irresponsible, I do not think it is an indecent way in the parliamentary process.
i-4082462800771aed-726	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for the question. In the same way that Lars Helmered and the Moderates describe the budget as a whole and list a number of different proposals as the reason why they do this – the major societal challenges they want to address – I describe the inadequate preparation from an overall perspective. It is correct that in Category 24 there was no need for further preparation, because nothing was done in the budget motion that was different from what the government had already done in connection with the transitional budget or was announced earlier. On the other hand, we have seen proposals in other committee areas, such as marginal tax effects on pensions of 300%, which have had to be changed. There has been a lack of money on appropriations, and we have had to back up and down several times. It is not an expression of a well-prepared proposal. Having said that, I would just like to say that I think it is irresponsible to do what is being done. All these societal challenges could have been addressed in an orderly manner in an amending budget of the new government taking office – all except tax cuts. What is now being done is to ensure that a new government, which does not believe that a sixth job tax deduction is the solution to gang crime, to long hospital queues or deficiencies in the LSS, now has a very limited scope for action to address these societal challenges. I think that is a major problem, and I think it is irresponsible given the situation we are in. It should have been everyone's priority at the moment to focus on getting a government in place.
i-4082462800771aed-729	Madam President, I would like I have respect for whether a Social Democrat or someone else says: Let us wait a little bit and come back later. That is a perfectly reasonable starting point. I don't share it. We had an election campaign not long ago when we Moderates and others stood before the voters and put out a number of promises about school, health care, business and other things. Then I think it is a reasonable starting point that concrete proposals should also be made as a representative of the Parliament. That is exactly what the Moderates have done among others. However, there are a total of five parties who have come up with various types of amendments. It is clear that certain adjustments must be made to this preparation. But it is also clear that for the Committee on Industry and Industry this is fully prepared according to all the usual rules and laws. This means that the question can be asked: should we wait to implement important entrepreneurial reforms, wait to ensure that pensioners have tax cuts or wait to tackle cancer queues or school initiatives? I do not think so, Madam President.
i-4082462800771aed-732	Madam President, I would like The problem is that we do not see major entrepreneurial reforms in the budget submitted. It is a problem in itself, which suggests that this is not a priority political issue. We can also note that there are a number of societal challenges that the rest of us see but which are not demonstrably societal challenges for the Moderates and for the coalition behind this budget. I can mention climate, environment and gender equality as clear examples where they even choose to pull down in this situation. That's not really the point. The big point and the big problem is that there is now a practice that means that no rules apply anymore. It should be a concern for all parties in this Parliament, and it deserves criticism.
i-4082462800771aed-733	Madam President, I would like For far too long, our business community has been removed from the political agenda. The naïve passivity of the former governments in the face of the destructive development of society has meant that the individual today has far more tangible problems than regulatory problems and high marginal taxes. Of course, when it is up to one third of the population who are very concerned about crime in society, their personal security is given greater focus in their lives than they are affected by an impending recession. When women are too afraid to go outside the door and rape statistics skyrocket, they will probably think little about how a tax on investment savings accounts affects their long-term savings. If grenade attacks and gang shootings are a recurring phenomenon in the area where you conduct your business, you will hardly think that unnecessary bureaucracy is a particularly big problem for your company. When you as a trader are forced to escape from the vulnerable area in which you have worked for decades, the supply of skills hardly ends up high on your wish list for a good business climate. If every morning you worry about whether nocturnal thefts against your warehouse have taken place l, you are hardly too worried about your electricity costs. Madam President, I would like Examples like these never end. My point is that public opinion in Sweden has valued issues linked to primary migration and crime significantly higher than the nutritional issues – of course for perfectly clear reasons. This, in turn, has resulted in the absence of necessary reforms and measures, yet the social problems that have stolen all the focus have only become worse. Given this background, I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats have managed to vote through a budget that at least to some extent invests resources in law enforcement and justice, while savings are made in the area of migration. Although it is far from enough, it is a step in the right direction, and I welcome it. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, we would certainly have been able to deal with these problems even more and slowly but surely restore a country of security and belonging. Madam President, I would like However, I would argue that despite the current circumstances in other areas, it is more than time to give industrial policy a higher priority in order to ensure Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for strong growth throughout the country. The Swedish Democrats are therefore deeply concerned that Swedish per capita growth is lowest throughout the OECD, that Swedish regulatory simplification work is lagging behind, that Swedish net trade is falling and that our competitiveness is deteriorating. Our well-being is already far too neglected for us to afford weaker growth opportunities. Add to that, Madam President, that today we are part of an international and global market in which Swedish companies compete with companies from all over the world in terms of both market shares and staff. To cope with this global competition requires solid regulatory simplification, an end to unnecessary gold plating and a much more efficient government system. As the market also becomes increasingly knowledge-oriented, it is unsustainable in the long term that Sweden is the country within the OECD where it pays the least to educate itself – at least if we want an opportunity to compete for international competence and thus avoid seeing us be overtaken by other economies. Madam President, I would like The most successful fellow students I had at the university hardly even see it as an alternative to work in Sweden. Perhaps they can do so in the future when they wish to settle down, but at present they find little reason to pay one of the world's highest marginal taxes for a job that they can do just as well in another country. The tax cuts introduced by the new budget will hopefully reduce this problem to some extent. However, the need for greater reforms both in education and in the labour market remains. Madam President, I would like The reality for Sweden's business community I have just described is anything but positive, and most of the evidence suggests that the next recession will hit hard on both welfare and prosperity. The need to improve the situation for both traders and employees is therefore becoming increasingly clear. Given this, it feels good that the Swedish Democrats actively pursue a business policy that mainly benefits small and medium-sized enterprises, while making it more profitable to work hard and to educate themselves. Our investments in business development and innovation, tourism promotion and start-up grants for professionals, together with our other policies, lay the foundations for a stronger business community that is better equipped for the next recession. Madam President, I would like For far too long, Sweden's business sector has been given away priority in favour of the problems created by previous governments. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, these widespread social problems would have been combated in real terms, and questions about the labour market, trade and industry would hopefully soon have been able to get the focus they deserve and need. However, this does not change the fact that we are already doing what we can to ensure a good business climate that enables high competitiveness and, by extension, Swedish growth and Swedish prosperity.
i-4082462800771aed-747	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Tobias Andersson spoke quite a lot about competitiveness and business opportunities. The striking thing about the Swedish economy, Swedish industry and large parts of the business world is that we are very trade-dependent; it is sometimes talked about that about half of the economy in Sweden comes from imports and exports. Our own internal market is a little too small, and many companies are forced to sell to other countries. Of course, what you do there is based on jobs, companies and tax revenues in Sweden. Two thirds of Swedish exports go to the EU's internal market. The Swedish Democrats want to leave the EU and the internal market. I do not want to say that the European Union is perfect in any way, Madam President – we all know the differences that exist – but for many companies in my own hometown of Gothenburg, for example, it is an advantage if you can sell a car model to half a billion people in the European internal market than if we have different regulations. It is the same for many other types of products and services. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce has allowed Oxford Economics to investigate what it would mean for Sweden to leave the EU, and it turned out that it could harm the Swedish economy. It would be harmful both for households and for companies, and it would impair Sweden's ability to trade and obtain investment. This would impair productivity development and reduce the opportunities for Swedish companies to find competence in the EU area. Overall, this would hamper growth. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask Tobias Andersson: why do the Swedish Democrats want to throw Swedish companies out in an uncertain situation by recommending that we leave the European Union and the internal market?
i-4082462800771aed-751	Madam President, I would like This question has been put by Mr Helmered both to me earlier and for four years to my colleague. He has probably received similar answers, where we have repeatedly noted the fact that the Swedish Democrats are not pushing for a hard exit. Instead, we are rather critical of large parts of EU cooperation, not only linked to the large costs it entails for the Swedish part, but also linked to the fact that it limits Swedish self-determination. However, our criticism of the European Union has never been based on either free trade or the internal market, to which the Swedish Democrats are strongly in favour. I am absolutely convinced that Mrs Helmered is well aware of this, Madam President. However, Mr Hjälmered describes that even the Moderates are to some extent critical of EU cooperation. I also know that, in various contexts, the Moderates have expressed criticism not least of the social pillar, which has increasingly become part of EU cooperation. My question back to Mrs Helmered, Madam President, must therefore be how it came that he and the other Moderates in the Committee on Economic Affairs did not express criticism of the recent EU proposal on the table of the committee, which included the social pillar. The proposal exemplified the costs associated with this by financing, for example, the housing and work of migrants within the European Union through structural funds and other means. If Mrs Helmered has found it difficult to understand the European policy of the Swedish Democrats, I may find it even more difficult to understand the European policy pursued by the Moderates. Is it the case that Mrs Helmered thinks that the European Union should focus on providing housing and jobs for migrants who are in the EU?
i-4082462800771aed-755	Madam President, I would like The answer to Tobias Andersson's question is no. The Moderates have made it clear that we are against the social pillar. In this specific case, it is a question of the majority of cohesion policy in this part going to very different things from the social pillar. But the Moderates are fundamentally opposed to this. We have been critical of some of the initiatives taken by the previous government in this area, and we intend to continue to do so. I go back to the main issue, Madam President, which is about the view of the European Union. One could possibly dream and say that we would leave the EU but that we are hoping for a very generous free trade agreement. However, I am not sure that this is the alternative. I think you can look at both the British situation and what happens if you forcefully leave the EU. I think it would be directly detrimental to important Swedish companies around the country, who have become accustomed to taking advantage of the internal market. For example, a company that develops a car model can sell it to all customers throughout the European market. I think it would be directly harmful to leave the EU in the way advocated by the Swedish Democrats.
i-4082462800771aed-759	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to inform Mr Helmered that the Swedish democrats are in no way pushing for leaving the European Union. We are rather free trade-friendly and positive towards the internal market, as Mrs Helmered has heard both from me and from other Swedish democrats for a long time. I will have to repeat that the next time this issue comes up on the table in this House, Madam President. It is true that it was only part of the case that we had on the table that concerned the housing of migrants through the social pillar, but there were still large costs linked to this. I find it worrying that the party represented by Mr Helmered is actively opposed to the social pillar, but passively lets it slip by in committee.
i-4082462800771aed-761	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Member of the Swedish Democrats – or Mr One. The Member talks about the Swedish Democrats' budget, but at the same time the Swedish Democrats supported the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget. When we then sat down in committee, the Swedish Democrats abstained from supporting the expenditure area. I can only read that you either want to create chaos in politics or have received something in return from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, and then I would like to know what it is.
i-4082462800771aed-764	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Chaos in politics has existed for at least four years, and it is a chaos that the Left Party has actively contributed to creating. As far as the budget is concerned, the Swedish Democrats pushed for our budget motion to the extent that went. On the other hand, we considered it fully justified to support a budget exercise that included some 12 billion extra for the judiciary, about 22 billion extra for the defence and an additional billion for municipalities and county councils for their welfare. I find it strange that I am the one who is asked about the budget we chose to support when the Left Party, which often tries to portray itself as the advocate of welfare and its main champions, chose not to support a budget motion with a target of about 5 billion extra for the welfare of municipalities and county councils. Madam President, I would like My question to Mr Varas is therefore: why did the Left Party choose not to support a budget against ion with targeted investments of 5 billion to municipalities and county councils? Why does Mr Varas not think that the municipalities and county councils should receive more money to ensure better welfare? This is the welfare that Mr Vara's party often speaks so well about.
i-4082462800771aed-769	Madam President, I would like The 5 billion to the municipalities that you in the Swedish Democrats are talking about has been highlighted by several Members. I can question them because you have cut both labour market measures and training measures for a great deal of money. This will mean, among other things, that people will need subsistence support to cope with everyday life. The next question I would like to ask the honourable Member is this: the honourable Member talked about security, but where does the honourable Member bring in the economic inequality that prevails in the country? Right now there is the greatest economic inequality in the last 30 years, and you have supported a budget that is actively working against security.
i-4082462800771aed-771	Madam President, I would like Surprisingly, I do not agree with the picture that Mr Varas paints. On the contrary, our budget motion went even further, but the budgetary motion we have voted for is pushing for tax cuts, primarily for low and middle earners. This means that people who currently have little money to move with get more money to move with. In addition, we have taken the opportunity to reduce taxes on pensioners. I find it difficult to understand why Mr Varas, who is said to be on the side of the weak, does not think that pensioners should have more money in their wallets when the tax is paid every month. Why does Mr Varas not think that those who today do not earn so much should have more money in their wallets when the tax is paid? For me and for the Swedish Democrats, it goes without saying, Madam President, that we must ensure that low- and middle-income earners and pensioners pay lower taxes. That is why we voted for the Moderate Budget Movement when our own had fallen.
i-4082462800771aed-774	Madam President, I would like The other week I visited Umeå District Court. It's not something I do every day, but it was a very interesting goal that I've been following for a long time. It is about owners of mountain forest in Västerbotten's inland have sued the state because they are not allowed to use their forest and because they also do not receive any compensation from the state for the same. The State considers that this is not about ongoing land use. This expression is quite new; Kammarkollegiet and Skogsstyrelsen started using it in 2016. This has caused a lot of suffering for many forest owners. This applies not least to Hanna and Albin, whom I met. They made their life's investment when they borrowed 1.6 million in 2012. They thought they could grow their forest. They had looked at the forestry plan, and there the Forest Board had pointed out which areas were possible to use. Two years later, when they wanted to do the same, they did not receive it, and then they did not receive any compensation. Do you really think in here that the bank cares about arguments that are not on-going land use, or are we not getting any money, because we are not allowed to harvest? No, they don't care; they want their money anyway. This is a disaster for Hanna and Albin but also for other owners of mountain forest – foresters and entrepreneurs. There are over 3 000 people who own mountain forest. What has happened to them is that the land value of their forests has fallen drastically, as this naturally creates uncertainty. And not only that: if, by now, the state should win this goal, do you know what happens then? Well, then this may become a kind of practice that can be used in other areas of Sweden. The state would then not have to pay any compensation to people who are not allowed to use their forest because it is not on-going land use. You understand, don't you? Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable to me that the Swedish state should be allowed to behave like this towards people. If you invest in the forest, you do it, I guess, so you can use it. What else is the point? Is it the intention for ordinary people to be biologists in order to buy forest at all, so that lichens and wall claws that are in the area can be identified? Misunderstand me correctly – of course it is good to maintain high natural values, but then the forest owner, that is, the entrepreneur, must also be paid. If the state can't afford it, the state shouldn't put a wet blanket over the area either. Madam President, I would like J ag thinks that it is problematic that this has gone so unbelievably far. You in the Social Democrats did not put your foot down when you had the chance, and I think they understand the problem. You could have stood up for ownership and use rights and clarified regulatory letters to the relevant authorities regarding compensation for the disposal of forests. Unfortunately, you did not do so, but instead lay down the policy of the Green Party. These double signals have created concerns that have a negative impact on Swedish forestry and the Swedish forest industry. It is anything but good because the forest is one of the foundations that Sweden stands on the basis of income. Madam President, I would like Forestry has long been seen as a safe investment. But when the state increasingly infringes the right of use without replacing individual forest owners, it has consequences. Of course, this applies not least to those who are affected, but the banks are also starting to pull their ears off. A few weeks ago I read today's industry, which had spoken to different types of banks that said that they will now include the political situation as an important criterion when deciding on lending for forest properties. All the uncertainties affecting forest owners will have an impact on jobs and entrepreneurship, especially in rural areas. We cannot allow that. In addition, forests are important for replacing oil and other fossil raw materials, which is a prerequisite for achieving our environmental goals and managing climate change. It is therefore unfortunate that forest production is sometimes presented as some kind of counter-pollution to the environment. In order for the Swedish forest industry to feel good and for us to be able to switch to a more sustainable society, we need clear answers from a future government about what forestry policy applies. Madam President, I would like Now I've been talking a lot and burning about the forest. It's a big interest in me. I come from a forest county, Västerbotten, where the forest means a lot, so I have to apologize for putting so much energy into this. Madam President, I would like I will conclude by saying a few words about women's entrepreneurship. This is another issue which I am passionate about and which I wish we could talk more about in this House and also in our committee. Because it is true, Madam President, that today only one in four entrepreneurs in Sweden is a woman. It's not great. The rating is quite poor given that Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. What has contributed to gender equality has also led to fewer entrepreneurs among women. Many women started working in the 60s and 70s. They went from being housewives – for example, my mother and the mothers of many others – to entering the public sector. This sector has in principle been closed to entrepreneurship until 2009, when the Alliance Government introduced the right to choose the healthcare, school and care providers. At that time, the curves for women's entrepreneurship began to point upwards, but when discussions about putting a profit cap on welfare companies appeared, the figures fell again. I think most people in this House are aware of this. What, then, can be done to stimulate more women to start up and run businesses? One thing that has become clear to me when I have travelled around the country and met entrepreneurship women is the uncertainty of the social security system. That is something many people mention. It's being reviewed, which is great. The Center Party also proposes an investment in migrant women's entrepreneurship. That is something that Almi put a lot of effort into earlier, and I know that the Social Democrats looked at it at least in their previous budget. That is a good thing, and this is an initiative that I hope will be more focused on in the future. I also think that one needs to focus on Young Enterprise, because we know that many young people who start with this in high school continue to run businesses later. That's especially true for girls. In conclusion, I would like to say that for a few years we have been running an unpolitical project here in Parliament called Womengage. It is about paying attention to the issue of women's entrepreneurship and how to get more women to want to invest in entrepreneurship. It is not a think-sin-about-project, but it is about us wanting more parties to pay attention to the issue. We want it to be something that is party-politically untied so that it will last over time. If more women start companies, this will also have a positive impact on the Swedish economy. We will now form an advisory board, an advisory platform, where business and politics meet. I feel really excited about this. Jennie Nilsson from the Social Democrats will also be present. It will be exciting, and I hope that we will be able to come back and tell you more about this on occasion. Thank you very much for listening!
i-4082462800771aed-794	Madam President, I would like On 1 July 2017, the so-called chemical tax came into force. Already there and there, criticism was levelled at it. In a world where e-commerce is becoming increasingly simpler and more common, it was perceived as deeply naive to think that the tax would make a difference, as it is easy for consumers to get around it. The critics therefore felt that the tax might only impair Swedish competitiveness without limiting at all the spread of the chemicals they claimed wanted to counteract. This was reinforced not least by the fact that the tax is levied by 10%, although the product concerned is free from the chemicals it was intended to restrict. Madam President, I would like About a year and a half has now passed since the chemical tax was introduced, and the first evaluations have begun to come. In the Swedish Enterprise's Greenwash report? An analysis of the effectiveness of Swedish environmental taxes is stated that the tax is ineffective if the aim is to improve the environment. The Swedish Trade Investigation Institute has also reviewed the chemicals tax and criticised the tax revenue, which in the first year only amounted to 1.3 billion. That is far from the estimated 2.4 billion. Moreover, as if this were not enough, it is estimated that between 600 and 1 400 jobs have been lost in Sweden as a consequence of the tax in question. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the Center Party is not only in favour of this obviously failed and misdirected tax; it also expresses in its budgetary motion the desire to extend it to include more goods. My question to Mrs Lindahl therefore relates to the arguments of the Center Party in relation to the chemical tax and its extension, and how these arguments can outweigh the criticism of industry, the loss of jobs and the lack of tax revenue.
i-4082462800771aed-799	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Commissioner, for the question. I can't answer directly, because I'm not familiar with the effects of the chemical tax. If I remember correctly, I have been asked before by a representative of the Swedish Democrats, so it is a favourite in replay from this party. I must therefore ask to come back to the matter. However, I would like to ask a question back now that I have the honourable Member in place. The Swedish Democrats would like to suggest that they are rural representatives. I wonder about the issue of risk capital for rural areas and northern Sweden. When the government withdrew Inlandsinnovation, i.e. the 2 billion that was directed at the companies in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna, you agreed to it. As the honourable Member may understand, it is not directly related to venture capital there. Instead, it has moved to a state-owned venture capital company based in Stockholm. 50% of all venture capital in Sweden is here. I therefore wonder why the Swedish Democrats thought it was a good idea to move venture capital that would have gone to places that need it as well as these vulnerable areas do. Why did you agree to move and centralise this to Stockholm?
i-4082462800771aed-802	Madam President, I would like If the Center Party pursues a destructive policy for business, both I and my colleagues will repeat the questions to which the Center Party does not have an answer at the moment. Hopefully we will get answers at some point when Mrs Lindahl has chosen to understand the questions she knows can be asked. If Mrs Lindahl had read our field of expenditure motion, she would have been aware that we are targeting resources such as Almi, which operates market-supplementary financing and business advice, among other things with clear demands that there should be more local offices. If we would not protect the sparsely populated areas or northern Sweden is therefore directly wrong. The fact that we are also spending increased resources on regional growth once again speaks of this to Mrs Lindahl. I would have liked to have examples of whether the Center Party feels that there are some concrete, positive effects of the chemical tax, which is so strongly advocated.
i-4082462800771aed-805	Madam President, I would like A destructive policy for the business community. The problem with the Swedish Democrats is that you, like many others, are big city-fixed. You speak nicely of the countryside, but in the end there is not much going on. If rural businesses are so important to the Swedish Democrats, why did you allow 2 000 million to be moved from these areas to Stockholm, where there is already risk capital? Do not come and tell me that you are going to give EUR 2 000 million in venture capital to these areas, because that is not true. Another question that the honourable Member will not be able to answer, but which is a caramel to suck on over Christmas is: why are you voting against infrastructure throughout the country, such as Norrbotniabanan, which is extremely important for the basic industry?
i-4082462800771aed-808	Madam President, I would like On Monday we celebrated 100 years of democracy in Sweden. If you read about our short parliamentary history, you will find that on several occasions the Moderates have taken the wrong side of the democratic rights we know today. Therefore, I was not surprised that the Right chose to act undemocratically in this process. But I would ask you to raise your eyes and look at what is happening in Hungary right now. There the people have grown tired of the Fascist party's lies and protest massively on the streets. I hope that Sweden will not experience the same undemocratic process that the Hungarian people have had. I shall devote my speech to looking at the ill-considered and unchristian budget that is today. I wonder how many job tax deductions the right is innovative enough to introduce. Will you stay at 100 or 200? Probably there will be as many as possible as long as the richest gain from it. You choose to abolish the air tax, even though the challenges of the climate do not wait in the future, but are here and now. The airline tax is a minimum of what we need to do. You're abolishing the right to deduct a union fee. It will therefore be more expensive to become a member of the organisation that represents you when it comes to wage negotiations and work environment. It is ideological work to weaken unions, which is absurd when it is actually easier for employers to relate to a common workers' organisation. The employment agency receives less funding and expects to reduce the workforce by 1 400 people. Employment services also expect to limit the number of introductory jobs for newcomers, long-term unemployed and disabled people, i.e. those who have the most difficulty getting into work. Sweden has not only the largest economic inequality where income inequality has increased most in the last 30 years. The budget adds tax cuts and RUT subsidies to the rich. Do you really want to make society stick together? The right will say that it has led to new jobs and that so many use the RUT grant, for example. However, the grant is mainly given to high income earners. Although the grant is also given to older people, it has its explanation. The elderly buy the services only because they do not receive the home help they should have. It is a right that should be self-evident regardless of the size of the wallet. In addition, RUT service workers have the worst working conditions. In principle, the right wing is active in providing subsidies to the rich, concealing the real need for home care and subsidising industries that have the worst working conditions without doing anything about it. The investment aid for rental rights is withdrawn. Why? Because the right is anti-rent. The rental right is a cruel, modern idea that is to build cheap common housing that gives shelter to everyone. But now up to 5 000 homes are being taken into account for investment aid. This is a scandal in today's housing situation. What society do we in the Left Party want to see that can benefit business? We want young people to be given the opportunity to have a future through an education that opens the way no matter where they stand or where they live. It should be quality education where resources go to staff, students and materials. In this way, we will ensure the supply of skills for the future. We want new arrivals to get into work quickly and well, and labour market and training measures are needed – something that you have drawn into. We want everyone who needs a home to have a home, and the rental right is a guarantor of that. We don't want homeless families crowded in hostels. We do not want young people who move to another place for jobs to be forced to take out loans or live in an unserious secondary market. People should have other headaches than having to move around and feel bad because of the housing situation. We want public transport to be an important component of how people get back and forth to work, school and leisure. Public transport shall be predominant and easily accessible. We want those who choose to become entrepreneurs to have a social safety net, and they should not have to worry about being competed out by dishonest companies. We want decent wages and working conditions to apply, and we do not want to reduce the quality of working life. We want to support the alternative energy laws by investing in the expansion of renewable energy sources in order to succeed in transforming Sweden into a fossil-independent country. It does not just mean that we need to invest more. It will also create new jobs and develop business. This is where the state must be dominant. New technologies are often costly, but through government investment small companies can also take part in the development. Finally, a modern working day should be six hours. This means that people get less sick, last longer, have more energy and have time to take care of their children and pursue their hobbies. In the light of technological developments, it is high time to start talking about reducing working time. We simply want to develop Sweden, not pull Sweden apart. I refer to the special opinion of S, MP and V and refrain from taking part in the decision.
i-4082462800771aed-829	Madam President, I would like Three things: First of all, I thought it sounded like Lorena Delgado Varas said that what happened here in Parliament with the budget decision was undemocratic. She's welcome to explain herself. The Constitution is clear that the financial authority is with the Riksdag and that it is the Riksdag that decides on income and expenditure. Decisions may possibly be rejected, but I hope that she did not mean that it was undemocratic. Secondly, Lorena Delgado Varas rightly pointed out some of the social problems we have in Sweden with insecurity and care queues. But Sweden has the smallest number of police officers in ten years after the Left Party has supported the Social Democratic and Environmental Party's rule. Furthermore, care queues have doubled in the last four years. We are gradually trying to get to grips with some of this with this budget. But, Madam President, to the question. Prior to the election Jonas Sjöstedt was interviewed in SVT. There he was asked about the party programme and the proposals to abolish ownership. In connection with this, Expressen asked: You want to abolish capitalism and that large companies should cease. How is this to be done in practice? Sjöstedt replied that this could happen in many ways. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Lorena Delgado Varas the same question. You in the Left Party want to abolish capitalism and also want large companies to cease. How is this to be done in practice?
i-4082462800771aed-833	Madam President, I would like Capitalism represents a series of challenges that we have in society. On the one hand, it is driving the consumer society, with which we are facing major problems today, and on the other, it is pushing for an increase in economic inequalities between different groups in society. This in itself creates insecurity, as we see today and as you very much point out. So we do not want a capitalist system, because it provides an unfair society. We could talk a lot about ownership. You can talk about collective ownership, for example, that workers take more place in ownership, small businesses and so on. There are a number of ways of running businesses in society without it being capitalist. As far as the undemocratic thing I mentioned is concerned, I am sticking to it. After all, we have a transitional government, and when you voted through your budget together with, among others, the Swedish Democrats, the situation became that today we have a transitional government that has to stay within the framework that you voted through. In fact, I think it is undemocratic. This is a new process. We have never been in this situation before, and we would have agreed that the transitional budget would not be a political budget but would only maintain the authorities while waiting for a government to take over. It will be a very strange situation when responsibility for your budget is placed on a transitional government.
i-4082462800771aed-838	Madam President, I would like I don't think I'd use the word. Perhaps, if you have a different view, you can use words such as, inappropriately, or the like. That is, if Parliament takes a fundamentally democratic decision on a state budget for next year, it is not undemocratic. It is true that we have a transitional government, but we do not have a transitional holiday. So the Left Party or any other party has not been prevented from making its own budget motion. For good reason, one must be critical of selected parts or a whole, but I think we should be careful not to call what happened undemocratic. I would like to come back to the question of ownership, because I still find it interesting. Now it was a few months since Jonas Sjöstedt was interviewed in SVT's party leader hearing, and then he was asked if you could have, for example, private banks, IKEA, H&M and that type of company. He swerved a bit and said that maybe you wouldn't have to in the long run. I still think that this is about principles. In a liberal economy one can have different forms of ownership, but the question is: Can one in Left Party society own something and be self-employed?
i-4082462800771aed-842	Madam President, I would like Of course you can have ownership. There are different types of companies that you can have, such as small businesses and collectively owned companies. There we look a little differently at what I call a non-capitalist society. However, we are of course working towards a fairer society with less economic inequalities, a society with sustainable companies and a policy that meets the climate challenges we have today. I do not see that in your budget.
i-4082462800771aed-844	Madam President, I would like I'm a liberal, and I don't think life should be a lottery. You should have the opportunity and the freedom to do what you want, and together we will make it possible. Sweden therefore needs more liberal policy. Liberals' budget exercise for 2019 includes reforms to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Liberals want it to pay off to run companies and take risks. If the whole of Sweden is to live, it must find a job. As a liberal and former entrepreneur, I know that better business conditions create more jobs. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenue, which in turn finances, for example, our common welfare. In Sweden, it must also be as obvious to be employed as to be self-employed. Of course, it starts at school already. In high school, Young Enterprise works and plays a very important role. At the same time, however, it must begin at an earlier age. The Swedish norm says that you should be employed. If you ask any five- or six-year-old, entrepreneurs are not the top of mind, if you may not come from an entrepreneur family. Norms are meant to be broken, and this standard is something we must crush as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like During the previous mandate, a number of tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship have been introduced, which makes it more difficult for small businesses to grow. What Swedish companies need is less, not more, involvement of politics and the public. Long-term conditions are needed for a more innovative and creative business environment. It is about the conditions for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and research and development. It is about being able to attract the right skills, about taxes and a well-functioning infrastructure, but it is also about the conditions for a stable and competitive electricity supply, which unfortunately is threatened by an inadequate energy agreement. First of all, we need to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses. In a 2017 survey, more than 60 per cent of companies responded that they feel that regulatory issues are one of the most important issues to deal with. Sixty-four per cent responds that the regulatory burden has become heavier compared to two years ago. In addition, Sweden has lost in the international ranking over the past few years. It is time for us to take action and start an aggressive simplification effort. The Swedish labour market benefits people who have been employed for a long time. Today's strict labour law makes it risky to employ and difficult to keep key employees in bad times for small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore want to change the order rules so that competence will determine who needs to leave the workplace and not how long you have worked there. At the same time, increased support for labour law is also needed to strengthen the transition of redundant persons. That is why the Liberals, for example, want to introduce a compulsory unemployment fund. Madam President, I would like We live in a fast-moving world where the distances between countries and continents have been significantly reduced with globalisation and digitalisation. Digitisation has meant that business and contracts can be concluded at lightning speed with the whole free world as a market. The physical location of the company does not matter as long as the presence of the Internet is guaranteed. With an IT strategy that includes the whole country entrepreneurship is promoted in Sweden as a whole. In the labour market, further digitalisation will lead to major structural changes. Jobs in industry and services will disappear and new ones will be added. This development is not unique to our time; we have seen counterparts in previous industrial efficiency schemes. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have major problems with skills supply. This affects not least rural areas, which are becoming increasingly difficult to find, attract and, for that matter, recruit skilled staff. But by reducing the distance between countries and continents, entrepreneurs in Sweden can find skills outside the country's borders. Sweden should be an attractive country that people with important skills want to move to. Labour migration is about Sweden's growth and competitiveness. A company in Karlstad, Make My Day, would look for staff. They did not find personnel either in Värmland or anywhere else in Sweden, but found it in the United States. Then they were given the answer that it could take up to a year before they got all the papers through, which is most unfortunate. It has become clear that the regulatory framework needs to be improved as the so-called competence expulsions continue. Applying for a work permit should be quick and easy, and processing times must be shortened. It is central that the Migration Agency is given sufficient resources and a clear mandate to shorten processing times for work permits. Madam President, I would like When the Liberals were in government, we pushed to improve the business environment. The reduction of corporate tax and the introduction of RUT and ROT deductions did black jobs white and contributed to the growth of more companies. Unfortunately, the policy pursued during the previous parliamentary term has halted the positive developments. This can be seen in the RUT sector, where growth has completely halted due to deterioration in the RUT deduction. In many cases it affects women, often women born abroad, because they run companies more than men and work in the RUT industry. Madam President, I would like For us liberals, entrepreneurship is both an expression of the individual's ability to realize his or her dreams and a prerequisite for our common society. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. By reducing the regulatory burden on companies, ensuring that sickness benefit, unemployment insurance and parental benefit schemes, for example, are treated as employees and modernised labour law, we create security for entrepreneurs and employees, a stronger business environment and, above all, more jobs. I naturally support the Liberals' budget and ask the House to take note of our specific opinion. We will therefore also abstain from the decision.
i-4082462800771aed-863	Madam President, I would like We have to debate a report that does not have such great political differences in itself. So I wasn't going to spend much time discussing it. However, I will briefly comment on the process for this. At a time when most of the practice is out of control, one must adhere to certain principles and be careful in how to deal with the situation. In 1974 Arthur Arthur Laffer out what came to be called the Laffer curve on a napkin for dinner. It was very sloppy we know afterwards with the Laffer curve. We know it's not very wise. It's about as sloppy to draw a state budget on a napkin. Once again, it is not about the matter first and foremost, but about principles. The transitional government was clear about the basic principles of the preparation of the transitional budget. It was also principles that were widely enshrined in the Swedish Parliament. In addition to the principles that would apply to the preparation of the transitional budget, it was also said that there are reforms that cannot really wait. They were also widely anchored in the Riksdag. Therefore, a gentle approach to the whole situation is to adhere to certain principles that have been discussed jointly. That's what the right wing hasn't done in this case. I'm still going to rub on what the consequences are on the substance. Apart from the most important thing about the principles, it also creates confusion and problems for business, among other things. We now know, for example, that there is concern within the business community about what is happening to the industrial life. Large parts of the other climate investment programmes are being pulled away from, among other things, industry's transformation efforts. Many of the green rescue jobs that are taking place around the country are disappearing. Much of the work on climate change is being dismantled. I now mention things that are outside this report. I'll show you what the consequences of not dealing with the situation are. That, of course, has consequences. On the part of the Green Party, we will not be taking part in the decision, but instead have a special opinion which, among other things, gives us an opinion on the process and what is reasonable to do at this point in time.
i-4082462800771aed-870	Madam President, I would like Mr Lorentz said in the speaker's chair that we should talk about principles. Let's do it. Trade policy is an area for such policies. When the European Parliament was to vote on a trade agreement with Ghana, the President of Ghana appealed to the EU to approve the trade agreement. The Green Party voted against. Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi called on the European Parliament to approve the EU's proposal for the unilateral removal of all customs duties against Burma with the exception of arms. The Green Party voted against. Another Nobel Prize winner, Malala Yousafzai, was in the European Parliament calling for the approval of a trade agreement with Pakistan. The Green Party voted against. The MP has also voted against trade agreements with Canada, South Korea, the other week with the poor country of Samoa and last week also with Japan. The MP therefore consistently rejects all trade agreements with rich countries and poor countries and even when it is called upon and encouraged by both the Presidents and Nobel laureates. Why, Lorentz Tovatt?
i-VEtSgn8H1UMVaAFftwzNQG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! We in the Green Party have clear statements in our governing documents, our programmes of principles and our party programme that we stand up for freer trade. That is the starting point for our trade policy. But trade policy cannot, of course, dominate all other policies. What we have seen recently in the area of trade is that agreements that are concluded more than before trample on the sovereignty of states and the fundamental principles governing the decision-making rights of the rule of law and the like. That is something we have been sceptical about. It is particularly important to be able to sue states if they go against trade agreements with democratically agreed decisions. The answer to the general question is that we are in favour of more free trade in the world. We know that it is important for the fight against poverty and also for the work of peace globally. However, when it comes to individual agreements, we need to strike a balance in terms of democratic decision-making. This applies, for example, to how much consideration is given to the environment and climate in the agreements and so on.
i-4082462800771aed-875	Madam President, I would like Now I was trying to look at not only what the Green Party has said, but how it has acted in the European Parliament, which is involved in giving mandates and voting for agreements. The Green Party has voted against agreements with Ghana, Burma, Pakistan, South Korea, Canada, Samoa and most recently with Japan. One can have reasonable objections about dispute mechanisms and also, as Lorentz Tovatt says, environmental arguments. It is notable, however, that, as far as I know, the agreement between the EU and Japan is the first and only trade agreement to date where reference is made to the Paris agreement, the climate agreement. They weave it into the trade negotiations. Even so, MP says no. I may have missed something. Is there a trade agreement with any country the Green Party might wish to vote in favour of?
i-Tqkkg27txrhooUp9RjT8dj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the line shift! I am answering about the same thing as I said earlier. We are, in principle, absolutely behind freer trade in the world. We also strive for this in different ways. Over the last four years, the government has concluded a series of agreements. I think Lars Helmered is painting the hell on the wall here. The principle is firm. We're going to have freer trade in the world. But I have never heard that Lars Hjälmered had views on this particular issue with, for example, arbitration and the environment in the agreements. It is something that the Green Party has needed, because no one else has highlighted it. We will continue to have that. We will not agree to agreements that simply stop democratically elected politicians from making decisions and allow companies to sue countries.
i-4082462800771aed-881	Madam President, I would like Not long ago I met a trader at home in Gothenburg. He has a grocery store in one of Gothenburg's suburbs that is heavily criminalized. Instead of focusing on his groceries and customers, he has become closest to a security expert for himself and for his shop but above all for his staff. With this, in all honesty, there has also come a resignation on his part as to what he experiences as society's flatness, low punishment and police shortage. This kind of budget debate is, among other things, about this food merchant who can rightly feel that society has failed. We do not all solve problems with a budget. But he and others should know that with this budget we get more policemen who can help regain security in Gothenburg and elsewhere. Investing in police, customs and other judicial systems is for me and for us important entrepreneurial reforms. Entrepreneurs are affected in the same way as everyone else by widespread insecurity. At Lindholmen in Gothenburg, thousands of people are working to develop new trucks, cars and buses. Every year, billions are spent on new technologies and research. Research carried out today can form the basis for work a little later on. The automotive industry at home in Gothenburg actually reminds us of other industries and other businesses in that part that they are truly global. You can be found in quite a few places everywhere in the world. You sell a lot of what you produce to other parts of the world. But you are also important in the places where you are around the country. Of course, we as politicians are not developing new steel or new cars. On the other hand, we have a role and a responsibility in terms of what overall conditions the automotive industry or other industries, such as forests, chemistry or other, get to continue operating in Sweden. There we see a tough international competition situation. So I think today's budget debate is also about vehicle developers in Gothenburg and elsewhere. They should know that we will invest more in research next year with the budget decided by the Riksdag. The Gothenburgers should also know that there will be a targeted effort to electrification of vehicles, which is a future and important area. Much works well in Sweden. But other things also call for reflection in this global world. Let me take two examples, Madam President. The first concerns the automotive industry and autonomous self-driving vehicles. It took the S-MP government two and a half years to come up with a regulatory framework that allows for the testing of self-driving cars in ordinary traffic. It doesn't make sense for this to take so long. Moreover, it is not reasonable when the regulations themselves say that you can't drive faster than 60 kilometers per hour, and the self - driving car requires a person to sit behind the wheel and hold a hand on the steering wheel when testing. As politicians, we need to think a little more widely about what conditions we give such important industry to test and develop, in this case, new vehicles and above all get a little faster at it. The second example concerns the port problems in Gothenburg. It has been a recurring topic in this House, Madam President. Everyone who is familiar with this knows that it is directly harmful to the Swedish economy and industry. This has led to direct costs of several billions for business. Nevertheless, it has taken several years to come up with proposals that can plug the problems. Parliament is not even close to making a decision. If we are serious about competitiveness and Swedish industry, the regulations for self-driving vehicles and port problems are examples where we must both make the right decisions and have the ability to make decisions faster. With this budget, there are specific principles for the proposals of a transitional government when leaving a transitional budget. However, the fact that a transitional government is bound by certain principles does not deprive Parliament of the right and, for that matter, also the responsibility to decide on the state's budget. It is clear from our constitutions that the financial authority is in the Riksdag. It is we who are to decide on revenue and expenditure. Some parties then choose to refrain from drawing up their own draft budgets. They're free. But I think it is reasonable to go forward with what has been promised in the elections, as has been done among other Moderates. Sweden cannot wait for reforms. It is good that we take decisions on measures that strengthen Sweden in the face of challenges that are emerging. These are issues such as care queues, security crises, integration of new arrivals and the competitiveness of business. Some principles for us in this budget from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have been to re-establish the social contract with more policemen, stronger defences, shorter care queues and more money for the municipalities. We want to equip the economy for individuals and society by lowering taxes for all pensioners and for everyone who works. There should be equal opportunities in Sweden through not least targeted school initiatives with longer school days in primary school, ten-year primary school, more career services, extended holiday school. The same applies to the technical base year. We also want a long-term sustainable migration policy and better integration. We think that we should extend the temporary law and investigate future migration rules combined with now implementing reforms such as a triple RUT deduction – this so that more new arrivals can get a real job. What, then, is the effect of this budget on an individual entrepreneur? Yes, it may depend on where in the country you live and what business you work in. To conclude, I would like to mention a few examples. Firstly, the 3:12 framework. Today it is fiscally disadvantageous to sell to your child compared with selling your company to an external party. It doesn't make sense. In this budget, we are making sure to change this so that the same tax rules apply. In this way, family ownership and long-term ownership are promoted. Secondly, there will be increased money for road and rail maintenance, which is important for a trade-dependent country like Sweden. Thirdly, broadband is to be expanded, which is important if you are to be an entrepreneur and work in all parts of the country. Fourthly, the crisis package for the important agricultural sector in Sweden. It has been on its knees after the summer's drought. It's a very important effort. Fifthly, we are talking about a triple RUT deduction, which we know is a cost-effective and good reform that leads to many people moving from exclusion to work. You don't solve everything. There is much left, Madam President. But with this budget there will be more police officers, shorter care queues, longer school days, a stronger defense, reduced tax rates for all who work, reduced tax rates for all pensioners and a series of different entrepreneurial reforms. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-4082462800771aed-902	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the conditions of local business are crucial to Sweden's growth. Without companies, we have no welfare. It is not the first and probably not the last time I say it in this speaker's chair. Good welfare requires a competitive and viable business sector that can create more jobs and increase growth, both socially, economically and environmentally. Sweden needs more than ever a business environment that lays the foundations for more jobs and for people with different backgrounds. The creation of growth is about daring to invest in the development of companies that provide jobs and thus increased consumption. This requires long-term conditions and conditions at local level where the public interacts with the business community. Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, I had the confidence and privilege to be a municipal politician and municipal councillor in Täby Municipality in Stockholm County. I worked daily to try to improve the business environment, watch and listen to companies, collaborate and hook arms to create good conditions. Only then will growth be possible. None of this can be taken for granted. We politicians should not just sit and watch and believe that this resolves itself. A basic prerequisite for a good business environment is that companies can afford and employ. One way was to abolish the special wage tax for parents. Whether it is a first job or a business start-up step, the thresholds for entry into the labour market must be lowered. Regulatory simplification as digitalisation streamlines needs to be taken into account to a greater extent than is currently being done. It is about streamlining administration, which in turn is also about choosing working methods and at the same time opting out. We cannot continue to have a digital system at the same time as a manual system for safety reasons. We cannot continue to have double systems, which will not be effective, but the opposite. The task of politicians is to safeguard the interests of citizens. Being a good client, following up costs and carrying out quality controls are therefore important political tasks. The production of individual social services should be characterised by diversity. The individual should be able to choose his/her executioner within the framework of the assistance granted by the Authority. Other public activities, which are not the exercise of public authority, should be procured in competition. Christian Democrats believe in a variety of practitioners in health care, care and school. Share companies as well as cooperatives and everything in between should be given space and the opportunity to carry out activities for people with different needs. The resistance of the Red-Green parties to private alternatives is completely incomprehensible if we also look at the studies that are being carried out on the will of citizens to be able to choose their own health care providers, preschools or schools. Madam President, I would like Nutrition policy must be given stable, good and simplified conditions for more growing companies. The private business community has been, is and will always be the backbone of Sweden's welfare. Many good ideas exist and need further development. Sometimes the question is asked about which regulatory simplifications this is really about, and then it is good that you are concrete and ask these questions when you are out visiting companies. I have met many different thoughts, ideas and sometimes frustrations. Today, companies are frustrated by, for example, the digital human resources gypsies that were introduced this summer and that included additional industries and companies. This is neither a sign of digitalisation nor a regulatory simplification for small businesses, but a direction towards an out-of-date way in which the effect is not to make it easier for small businesses. To make things easier, solutions are needed on how to work to make common rules fit into the digital world in which we live. Another concrete part that is positive and must be further worked on is Ekonomit.se that can mean incredible simplifications for companies that are going to establish themselves, whether it is the first time or whether it is established in other municipalities in the country than where they started. We need to make sure it's easy to do the right thing. Another example of digital solutions making it easier to start and run businesses while improving the efficiency of municipalities' work is the Servered programme. Starting a restaurant requires many permits. The purpose of Serverat is to make it easier for entrepreneurs to apply for a permit while improving the efficiency of the municipality's administration. The work starts with the restaurant industry, but by a new agreement between SKL and the government, the tourism industry will also be covered by this work. The Swedish Growth Agency, the Swedish Companies Registration Office, SKL and municipalities work together to make it easier. This is a path we should encourage and as we and the Moderates do in our common budget. Madam President, I would like The former government held back the privately owned health and social care sector and education companies – all working in public funded areas – by wanting to impose profit restrictions. The Christian Democrats welcome all jobs, regardless of their operating form, if the business is privately or publicly driven by the tax-funded business. We Christian Democrats believe that one of the most important things is that the public is a good client and good follow-up, as I said earlier, and that our welfare companies are of quality, regardless of their operating form. One of the most important tasks of policy must be to create the conditions for economic growth, which provides more jobs and prosperity. A successful and inclusive labour market policy is therefore highly dependent on a functioning education system and a business policy that promotes entrepreneurship that provides jobs and tax revenues to finance welfare. We Christian Democrats want to be involved in creating the conditions for growth in our companies in the digitization era in which we live. It's not the state that's hiring, it's the companies. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4082462800771aed-919	Madam President, I would like The budget submitted to Parliament on 15 November was prepared by a transitional government. The starting point for the budget is 2018. After the Parliament last week endorsed other expenditure frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the transitional government, we in the Social Democrats refrain from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 21 and refer to our specific opinion. After the election, more than half of the newly elected members of the Riksdag voted against the question of whether the Prime Minister had sufficient support in the Riksdag. This was done despite the fact that the Red-Green parties constitute the largest bloc with 144 mandates against the 143 mandates of the bourgeois parties. After three months of probes and negotiations and two Prime Minister votes, we still have no government in place. I would like to ask those of you who have put the country in this situation: what is the plan now? You owe us the answer. Sweden is governed by a transitional government. In accordance with existing guidelines, a transitional government should only decide on current and urgent matters. In the case of a budget submitted by a transitional government, it is stated that it should not contain proposals that have a clear party political orientation. The principles have been developed following contacts between representatives of the government parties and the Left, as well as the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. It is important to point out that the transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It does not tackle the major societal problems of new reforms. Nor is it intended to do so. It exists in order for important social functions in the welfare and public authorities to function in the same way as before. It should not be interpreted as meaning that the transitional government's budget is an expression of our parties' political priorities. In a situation where the country is led by a transitional government, parliamentary work must be concentrated on getting a strong government in place. We expected an orderly and responsible process with the transitional budget and believe that it should pass through the Riksdag as intended when the legislation was adopted, but that was not the case. The actions of the Moderates and Christian Democrats now supported by the Swedish Democrats are not reasonable. They take the opportunity to push through major tax cuts of approximately SEK 15 billion and at the same time make substantial cuts to, among other things, labour policy, housing and climate and energy investments. It is also quite unreasonable for a transitional government, which cannot resign unless it gets through its budget, to be required to implement the economic policies of other parties. When a new government is in place, the parties in the Riksdag may present their own economic policies, such as government leaders, negotiating parties or opposition. It's the only thing that makes sense. Madam President, I would like Let me say a few words about the transitional budget. The transitional government's proposed budgetary framework for Category 21 is close to 3.6 billion, which will provide a better and more stable energy system. In addition, Svenska Kraftnät's investment plan of SEK 11 billion is reported for the years 2019 – 2021. I note that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats are 445 million lower than the transitional government's draft budget. I also note that the Swedish Democrats wanted to significantly reduce the amount of expenditure by EUR 755 million. Madam President, I would like Energy and climate advice should be removed or reduced. The planning support for solar cells should be removed or reduced, and the support for wind power should also be removed. Is that how we build a better and more stable energy system? This means that municipalities' work with energy and climate advice is made more difficult at a time when many people want to contribute to lower energy consumption and demand advice and help. This also means that planning aid for wind power will be reduced from 85 million to 15 million. Several of the municipalities that receive wind power are small rural municipalities. A reduction in aid risks hampering their planning conditions, thereby reducing their willingness to invest. If aid is halved, it also means that the solar revolution that has swept over the country will now stop. The solar cell market increased by 50 per cent in 2017. It has become popular to invest in solar cells due to lower prices. The government has simplified the regulatory framework and has invested in financial support for solar energy. Many simply want to contribute to a more climate-smart society. The proposed cuts risk not only breaking the positive trend but also reducing the opportunities for Sweden to reach the target of 100% renewable electricity generation. Madam President, I would like Finally, let us now focus on getting a strong government in place!
i-4082462800771aed-935	Madam President, I would like Mr Engström and I have discussed security of supply in the past, for example. Patrik and the Social Democrats have rejected the idea of one and focus on targets such as 100 percent renewable. This has no connection with being able to ensure that we have a power system that will be effective when the power is demanded. For Sweden, which is a prominent industrial nation, it is important that there is a stable and robust power supply. The industry should not have to think about whether it blows out or whether the sun shines when it might want to roll steel. Mr Engström also has a background in the electricity-intensive industry. So it's going to be a strange connection. The Social-Democrats focus exclusively on weather-dependent forces that will not be helpful in the power balance or the power balance in winter time. Nor will it help to ensure that we have a good power supply throughout all the hours of the year. Swedish power grids point to the fact that, with the development that is being pushed forward, there will be a major lack of power over very many hours during the year. In practice, it will be impossible to operate an electricity intensive industry in the south of the country. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask whether the Social Democrats are not concerned about the development that we see in terms of power shortages and how it affects the opportunities for the basic industry to operate in Sweden.
i-4082462800771aed-940	Madam President, I would like Just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson says, I have a background in the steel industry. I understand very well the importance of having a robust electrical system with high security of supply and good transmission possibilities. At the same time, prices must of course be competitive. Without this, a large part of the jobs in the base industry in Sweden are at risk. We therefore have an energy agreement, which takes heights for this. In some way Mattias Bäckström Johansson wants to give the impression that there is a shortage of electricity in Sweden. I looked as late as lunch what it looks like today. Well, today we export electricity. We do that almost every day of the year. Until at least mid-November we exported electricity every day except 16. That there would be an acute shortage of electricity or power right now I do not see. At the same time Mattias Bäckström Johansson has an important point. This may be a problem in the future, and we must, of course, be vigilant about it and take heights for it. But is it somehow believed that we are going to regulate the electricity market again? We have an electricity market from a market perspective – supply and demand. Then I would like to ask Mattias Bäckström : Will Mattias Bäckström re-regulate the electricity market in such cases? Is this what he is seeking because he repeatedly raises the issue of lack of power?
i-4082462800771aed-944	Madam President, I would like That is precisely the problem in the field of energy. It is said that it is a liberalised market, in which we shall have the market mechanisms that come through. However, what Mr Engström raised was precisely that it is recurringly subsidies, subsidies and various forms of aid that put the market out of hand. Yes, it is these market-distorting elements that we want to remove in order for us to have a real market. You can link it to the power issue. It is perfectly possible, for example, to have a market for effect. It does not need to be measures on the production side. There may as well be actions on the user side. But, once again, weather-dependent electric power will make it more difficult for the Swedish base industry to operate in Sweden. In Sweden, we have one of the few comparative competitive advantages for the Swedish industry as it has been a very robust and stable power system. We can see that it is becoming less robust. When it comes to being able to ensure that we have electricity on the days when it does not blow or when the sun does not shine, the question is: What electricity generation should we have those days, so that these companies do not have to move to other countries?
i-4082462800771aed-948	Madam President, I would like We do not have a national energy system, but we have a European energy system. It may be that it is more weather-dependent, but if we are connected with other countries, we have great opportunities to deal with these issues. I got some information from Svensk Vindenergi the other week. They have investment plans of around SEK 40 billion in the next few years. The reason for investing so much is the energy agreement. It has led us to attract energy investors. Thus, the market is prepared to invest 40 billion in a robust and renewable energy system in Sweden. I think that is something to say about the importance of holding on to, persevering and having cross-block agreements.
i-4082462800771aed-950	Madam President, I would like We are today debating Category 21 Energy. It is an area where a great deal has happened and where a great deal will happen in the future. The historical context is that our energy system has been transformed properly since our society and industry began to electrify increasingly. In the early 1970s, up to 80 per cent of our primary energy supply was fossil-based. It is a proportion that has been pushed back more and more. Nowadays, it represents just over a quarter. It is a development that means that we have reduced our fossil share during this period by nearly 70%. It is a journey that is quite unique in a global context. If you listen only to the political debate in this House, it is easy to believe that renewable energy is the dominant energy source globally and that it will be resolved only if we increase our efforts a little more and come with additional support and subsidies. But that is not the reality. At a global level, the fossil energy supply was roughly the same as it was in Sweden in the early 70s. But in practice the similarities end there, because globally the level has been more or less constant in these decades to this day. It has declined marginally, from about 85 percent down to 80 percent. Madam President, I would like That is why, at global and European level, we are talking about an energy transition to change this, as a large part of the world's energy systems are fossil-based. Nearly 75% of greenhouse gas emissions in these countries come from their energy systems. But in Sweden, just over a tenth of our emissions come from there. Despite this fact, the need for an energy transition is being raised here too. This is done despite the fact that in practice we do not have the possibility of further emission reductions within our energy system. It is, of course, tragic that no more has happened at a global level, which has been directly detrimental to human health, as rational alternatives have existed. We in Sweden have proven that this is possible. It is the basis of planned power generation, such as hydroelectric power and nuclear power, that has enabled the integration of relatively large quantities of weather-dependent power production without actually compromising security of supply or power quality. This should be the model of how other countries develop their energy systems – and we should take good care of this here in Sweden. Instead, however, we see above all ideological duplicators that focus on fluffy targets of, for example, 100% renewable. It is a goal that now seems to be able to lead to both increased emissions and lower security of supply. What we can see is that the margins of the winter balance of power have eroded completely only in the last ten years. It is more than 5 000 megawatts that have disappeared by way of margin so that we ourselves can cope with our own power supply. This is also the way to introduce the winter in which we now find ourselves was the first time ever that Swedish power grids expected in their forecasts that Sweden would not be able to cope with its own electricity supply without imports. It is certainly something that we normally use– we import electricity even during the winter. But it should be remembered that in these forecasts we also expect to run the oil-fired condensing plants fully, which are anything but renewable. We will also increase our dependence on imports from coal power production in our neighbouring countries as a result of the policy pursued. As if that were not enough, along with the troublesome starting point, additional closures are waiting around the corner – for Ringhals 1 and 2 in the next two years. Prognostically, it will bring us back in time. You almost have to go back to the early 1970s to find the corresponding power shortage in the projections. At the same time, we can see very worrying signs that the balance mass in the power system is starting to fade properly, as more and more major synchronous generators are leaving the power grid. On three occasions this summer the shortage was so obvious that Oskarshamn 3, which is the largest machine connected to our synchronous power system, had to regulate down by 100 megawatts at the order of the Swedish power network. This is something that is incredibly worrying when we see an increasing decline in the quality of the electricity contained in the power system. Madam President, I would like Work on energy policy during this term of office must focus on the shortcomings of the policy pursued. The entrance must be for future generations to be able to take part in a robust power system characterised by high power quality and good operational security, which will enable Sweden to continue to be a competitive industry nation in the future. The problem with the energy policy in place is that it has no direction towards security of supply, or that it has an impact when the need is greatest. Our proposal is for Sweden to set a target for security of supply, which the future energy policy will steer towards. These can be both on the production side and on the user side. However, all the other parties in this House rejected such an objective of security of supply during the last parliamentary term and have repeatedly voted down the proposals that we have tabled. Our hope is that the entrance to such a goal will soften, and this is something that can be investigated as well as introduced during the term of office that we are now in. The Swedish Democrats have sought support for the abolition of subsidies and the abolition of aid for wind power and solar power, which is a step towards a more functioning electricity market where market distortions are phased out. We have increased our ambitions in energy research with a special allocation for a fourth-generation nuclear research reactor, where there is potential for re-use of the previously used nuclear fuel. This would make it more resource efficient and reduce both the amount of high-level waste and the time of disposal. In the appropriations now contained in the committee's draft report, it is clear that the main lines are in line with a Swedish democratic policy. The State's investment aid costs for solar cells are significantly reduced. The premium of SEK 70 million for municipalities that install wind power is proposed to be removed completely. In addition, it is finally being opened up for energy research to be able to go to nuclear research as well. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing hard for in this House since we came in and which now seems to be becoming a reality. It can be said that energy policy is also beginning to take real steps in our direction, which is extremely gratifying and a good start to this parliamentary term.
i-4082462800771aed-971	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the energy budget. It was M's and KD's budget that won in this House. We in the Center Party have not taken part in the decision. As usual, therefore, we do not take part in the decision in committee either, but instead have a separate opinion. That is the practice of this House. It would have been reasonable for all parties in Parliament to stick to the practice and the common rules of the game we have in order to create stability in decision-making. Earlier today, the environmental budget was debated. Now it's the energy budget. There are two issues that are difficult to separate. We have had several previous speakers talking about the climate issue. This is because the climate issue is an energy issue. But energy issues are incredibly much more. When electric cars roll on our streets, it is a health issue, because particle emissions are decreasing and life expectancy is increasing here in Sweden. When renewable fuels replace fossil fuels, it is a safety issue, because we can produce the renewable here instead of importing the fossil from Putin. Low electricity prices and a diversified use of different types of electricity generation are a competition issue and a business issue for Swedish companies. When the green industries become the oil sheiks of the future, it is a matter for the whole country. The energy issues are all this and should be treated like all of this, not reduced to just some. The decisions taken in this House make me sad and disappointed. I am disappointed by the budget that went through. It pulls down on big bets without having options. A flight tax is scrapped without replacing it with such an important obligation, which is much more effective. Just when electric car sales are starting to start, we are removing a load-home support that we in the Center Party managed to press the government to introduce. Solar cell support is halved on paper, but in practice no new applications will be granted, as there are already so many in the queue. With, for example, 10 percent solar electricity in the system, we would have had a completely different competitive situation after this dry summer. We would have had lower electricity prices, because we could have kept water in the water storage. It's a business question. More home charging for electric cars is a health issue. I miss the investments needed on renewable fuels and on how to get production started here in Sweden. The government has not delivered in terms of withdrawing the obligation so that it applies all the way up to 2030. But it is also not possible to remove the investments that are made to get to production here. These budgetary decisions also make me very sad because the government – be it a transitional government now – has not been able to cope with the major structural changes that have been needed over the last four years. Then it is not enough to say that the budget that is being presented now does not symbolise everything you want to do. After all, this is the government's budget in the long run. Had we had a green deduction – directly on the invoice just like with ROT and RUT – for solar cells, home charging or home batteries, we would not have had this situation. Then it would have been easy. You didn't have to stand in line, you didn't have to wait. Different types of aid could have been phased out cautiously. The love of contributions and being able to control forms and administrators is far too great in this government, even if it is a transitional government. A green transition must be simple, smooth and profitable. This has not been the case in the last few years. I am also disappointed by the government's unwillingness to see the need for transport on rubber wheels. Kilometer taxes and resistance to biofuels are being trumped both climate policy and security policy. It's not okay. Ownership in the forest is under threat, which means that we can't take out those stuff and make renewable plastics and fuels and build more in wood. Rarely can you see outside Stockholm's customs. Into the woods, where the railroad doesn't go! In the countryside, where the bus stopped a decade ago! In the entrepreneurial Sweden, which sees the possibilities in the green transition but does not get the chance because of rigid structures, not only on the environmental issue but just as much in terms of taxes and the labour market! There the government has failed completely. But these budgetary decisions also make me very convinced that the policy of the Center Party is needed. They make me even more determined. We need that green subtraction that makes it easy to be involved in changing. We need to avoid some forms, so that entrepreneurs can make the same offer to a whole block without being dependent on people being able to make certain applications. We need a green car bonus that makes it more profitable to buy an electric car, biogas car or hydrogen car. But we also need things on the user side that prevent these things from being exported. As far as electric cars are concerned, it is Norway. Gas cars have disappeared down to Germany and the Netherlands for several years. Yet the government has done nothing. You are not interested in making it easier with congestion tax, free parking or other things. This is a real problem for climate policy. The Center Party also has an electrification strategy to get more transport with electricity. This applies not only to passenger cars, but also to such things as boats. The light boats that go on electricity today pay more energy tax than those that go on diesel. That's completely unreasonable. We also want reductions in emissions from the transport sector. It's about the change of fuel and the reduction obligation. This must be done throughout the transport sector, including aviation. We need to get to that bioeconomy. That's where we're going, to a circular economy that takes advantage of the green carbon. The green carbon atom shall replace the black. We also need to improve efficiency. Here the Center Party makes big bets. It is efforts that are needed for the transition – for the climate, for security policy, for health policy and for business. The investments also mean that we get growth – welfare gains if you want. It's the only way to change. This is how we get other countries like the USA, India and China to change and want to follow Sweden. We may be small, but when other countries see that this is possible, they want to follow, and that is when we deliver not only politics but also technology. It creates jobs, entrepreneurship and jobs here. That's how we get more Swedish companies. This is how we get more Swedish public health and a better security situation. That's also how we save both energy and climate.
i-4082462800771aed-984	Madam President, I would like As you know, the report No 3 by the Committee on Industry deals with Category 21 Energy. I will begin my speech in the same way as in the debate on regional growth: we support the positions on the results report and the assessments of the announcements on the table. With regard to the distribution of appropriations, the Left Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, has a special opinion and chooses not to take part in the decision. The same happens here as with Category 19 Regional growth: Only 4 out of 17 members participate in the decision on the allocation of appropriations. I cannot help reminding the other reserveers who do not take part in the decision: it was you who either actively voted in favour of the right-wing budget, which won or released it, when you had your own budget. So totally disclaiming responsibility is a bit like giving the pyromaniac matches and then surprised that he uses them to turn them on. Madam President, I would like This debate would really have been about what we would like to do with the money that helps in the development of energy. But now we have a transitional government, and we have agreed that the budget should focus on current or urgent matters. It also states that a transitional government should not present proposals that are politically controversial or have a clear party political orientation. We chose to follow these guidelines, which most parties had also supported. It had been agreed that the 2019 budget should be drawn up on the basis of the 2018 budget pending the entry into force of a new government and be able to submit the proposals for changes resulting from its political orientation. It is when such a bill is presented by a newly-responsive government that it is reasonable to exercise as an opposition party. The fact that the Left Party has had good budgetary cooperation with the government and that we are the basis of government for a left-wing bloc also means that we choose to support the transitional budget. Madam President, I would like The fact that we have different views on what is going to happen in the energy sector is quite clear and understandable. But the fact that people here too choose to create confusion and confusion, both among those in the population who wanted to contribute with solar cells and in municipalities that worked actively for wind power establishments and so on, is for me unserious and definitely not in accordance with the guiding words about adults in the room. The fact that we in Sweden are dependent on a good and robust electrical energy system is well known for all parliamentary parties. We are an export-dependent country, where the price of electricity is often crucial to the competitiveness of our basic industries in the global market. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise scares politicians with upcoming major challenges such as power shortages, high electricity prices and so on. Then everything is as it usually is. I'll buy the worry to some extent. We have to have electrical energy every second, even when the peaks in consumption are at their highest, and then it can be still wind. But the fact that you don't dare to believe in a development that makes it possible for us in Sweden to fix it with renewable energy sources makes me think: Where are there so good conditions as with us? Wind power is today the cheapest newly built energy available to us. In addition, the development of solar cells is accelerating and prices are falling. All the research that is going on about what we can do with our industries in the transformation into emission-free production makes me at least relieved for the future. That we have expanded several of our river systems and made it possible with these volatile energies is something of a godsend, as someone would have put it. I read an old book, Well some memories and reincarnations from the R iksdagsmen's journey through northern Sweden in 1921. There it was expressed that these great streams and rapids are a godsend. It was a good and learning story about these men, as it was actually 1921, and their journey. What was not funny, however, was when racism was reminded in the view of the local population. I quote from the book here in Abisko as well as at the öfriga stations where we stopped our train, the small Decision-makers thus visited northern Sweden's wealth and admired the state's borderless estates waiting for use and seizing spirit, as it was described. But they had no idea who paid the highest price for the intrusion, and they ridiculed the appearance of the locals. Talk about colonialism in a nutshell! It should be remembered that, for example, the Harpånget power station was not yet expanded, but that the decision-makers were impressed by the power of the rapids when they experienced it and saw it at close range. A reminder to us debating energy issues here: it is precisely this power station, the one in the case of Harsprånget in Lule River, which in nine out of ten cases regulates that we hold 50 hertz in the transmission. Of course, this is history now. But let us be more sensible today, and let us not forget history, no matter what it describes. What do I want to say about this? Of course, if establishment in rural areas infringes those who live and work there, those who infringe, whether it be wind-turning or hydropower, should reasonably give some small part of the production profits to the municipality or region where the profits are generated. This will make many challenges that we face much easier to get a common understanding of, and avoid unnecessary conflicts. Madam President, I would like This was a little outside the actual budget debate, but it could have been woven in if we had got a government in place and were debating a government budget.
i-4082462800771aed-1000	Madam President, I would like Mr Lahti highlights criticism of us about the market-distorting support and subsidies that we choose to remove in our spending area motion. As far as support schemes are concerned, it is argued that wind power is one of the cheapest types of power available. This makes it even more reverse – you send subsidies and subsidies to the most profitable. Already today, three out of four electricity certificates go to wind power. In other contexts, it would seem strange to direct support from here to the most profitable companies. Perhaps these are not the ones we need to support in the first place. On the other hand, the planning support for wind power was lifted. Earlier in the debate, too, there has been a warm voice in favour of this. It is SEK 70 million that is allocated to the municipal sector if you manage to get to the establishment of wind power. In the debate, it sounds like it would be very crucial for the work that is being done in the municipalities. I don't think it's really proportionate to reality. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Lahti how many of Sweden's 290 municipalities have benefited from this support during the year in which it has existed.
i-3WPnuzVFzhW7fqkJtsXzom	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the commitment to take a line! I think you're right that wind power is by far the cheapest power in terms of new production. But what gives you support is the willingness to invest, which Patrik Engström was into. It is huge in Sweden. If we are to phase out two reactors, which Mattias Bäckström Johansson was in on, it is of course important that we get a large expansion of the alternatives. Wind power is the cheapest thing, and its support makes the willingness to invest great. I think it's needed. There are challenges, but the technology is moving forward with storage and so on. There are other technologies that will enable us to do this, and we have good hydropower production. With regard to the 70 million in investment aid, I have not checked how much has expired. It's a shame you don't have the numbers in your head. I do not know which municipalities took part of it, but the idea is that the municipalities where establishment takes place should be able to provide information about what it means. I think the money is important. You want nuclear power to develop. I want to ask you something, Mattias Bäckström Johansson. I may be on thin ice because you're knowledgeable in the field, but tell me! How much closer are we to a fourth generation reactor today than we were 30 years ago? I get such weird vibes. The technology already existed for a very long time, but not so much has happened. How much closer would you say that we are this technology today than we were 30 years ago?
i-4082462800771aed-1008	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I only have one minute, but I can see that the first nuclear reactor that produced electricity and was used for the production of electricity was a fourth generation reactor. The reason why the technology has not been developed since then is that uranium has been cheap and is an easily accessible substance found in our earth's crust. However, reactors are already operating with the involvement of previously spent nuclear fuel, and the technology is progressing. I would like to return to the fact that Mr Lahti was a member of the Energy Commission. As noted in the data we handled there, large-scale hydropower, nuclear power and land-based wind power have quite similar production costs, regardless of the cost of capital, if you look at the operating costs. When it comes to planning aid for wind power, only 10 of Sweden's 290 municipalities have taken part in it. I do not think that there are more targeted state grants that Swedish municipalities and county councils need.
i-4082462800771aed-1011	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the answer you had time to give! I'm reading your answer about how much closer we are to that, just like you said, was about the technology you ran into. However, very little has happened in this area with regard to how much closer we are to a solution in order to be able to run with the waste, which would shorten storage. I therefore think it would be to back down in the future if the Swedish side were to start with a huge research on a fourth generation reactor system, when we have renewable energy sources that are cheap. I agree with what you're saying about the Energy Commission, but have you thought about something? Even compared to the figures we had in the Energy Commission regarding the cost of capital for wind power and nuclear power, it has already become, I think, 20 öre cheaper per kilowatt hour. The cost of capital for wind power has constantly decreased and does so safely on a daily basis.
i-4082462800771aed-1013	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the few countries in the world that has shown that it is possible to switch electricity production and eliminate emissions of climate gases. Thanks to hydroelectric power, nuclear power and wind investments, Sweden has a safe, efficient electricity production with competitive prices and low greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, most of Europe's countries remain dependent on coal and fossil gas. The Liberals want to protect and develop Sweden's climate-smart and stable electricity generation. Madam President, I would like We are concerned about the increased impact challenge caused by more renewable electricity generation, while climate-smart and stable nuclear power is being shut down. In future winters, the availability of electricity will not be guaranteed. Stable electricity generation in the form of nuclear power will disappear without sufficient measures being taken to ensure continued security of supply. Lack of security of supply is not an acceptable development for a society that is becoming increasingly dependent on electricity. Swedish power grids and a number of other actors are trying in every way to raise awareness of future power shortages in particularly cold days. The last winter was the first without Oskarshamn 1. Ringhals 2 will be closed on December 31, 2019, and Ringhals 1 will be closed the following year. A significant proportion of stable electricity generation disappears without sufficient measures being taken to ensure continued security of supply. What does this mean in concrete terms? An effect deficit mainly affects central and southern Sweden in the winter. When electricity is lost for shorter or longer periods, the damage to both industry and households is at risk. Insufficient electricity generation initially leads to instability and higher electricity prices. For the national economy, damage already occurs when the supply of electricity begins to be perceived as unreliable. It will also be necessary to use the power reserve more frequently, which means, among other things, that the power plant in Karlshamn needs to be started. In addition, our need to import electricity will increase; it usually involves dirty electricity. It is true that electricity is imported and exported on a daily basis. The problem arises when we shut down climate-smart electricity generation and make us more dependent on imports of electricity, which is often produced by coal or gas. In addition, we expect our neighbours to have electricity to export precisely the cold, dark hour when we need it most. Liberals believe there is a need for a security of supply target. Swedish electricity consumers need to know what they can expect from their electricity suppliers. How often are we supposed to expect power outages? How much variation in voltage and frequency will the industry plan for in the case of new investments? Should electricity-intensive industry dare to invest in Sweden at all? Liberals believe that lack of security of supply is not an acceptable development for a society that has become more dependent than ever on stable electricity supply. Today's high power quality is a Swedish competitive advantage that must be protected. Liberals have long asked for an impact assessment as to what closures of reactors mean for security of supply and energy import dependency and their impact on the climate. Nor could the Liberals support the Energy Agreement, which had a clear focus on increasing the share of renewable electricity in all ways. For us, it was unclear what goal they had in mind, as Swedish electricity production has in fact been almost completely free from climate impact since the early 80s. We now need a security of supply target that takes into account society's needs and is based on the importance of electricity supply for our competitiveness as an industrial nation. Madam President, I would like You don't have to love nuclear power. You don't even have to be a little in love with it. But if you have some climate anxiety, you should at least have some tingles in your stomach and listen to the UN climate panel IPCC. Only a few weeks ago, they once again highlighted the need for world nuclear power to increase significantly if global warming is to be limited. The IEA, the International Energy Council, makes the same assessment and says that the exclusion of nuclear reactors is a luxury we cannot afford. However, if we are to expand nuclear power more, the question of how to deal with radioactive waste must be taken very seriously. Fourth generation nuclear reactors have the potential to reduce CO2 emissions, while allowing waste to be processed and used as fuel. For the sake of climate, the proposal from our leading technical universities to build a Swedish research reactor should be implemented. If we really take the climate reports seriously, we must also realise that nuclear energy is a key player in achieving climate objectives. But research also needs to be done in other areas. An increased share of renewable energy increases the need for storage and flexibility in the energy system. Liberals also propose more resources for research and innovation on energy storage and batteries. The bottom line is that more doors need to be kept open to ensure a sustainable energy system in the future. Madam President, I would like Liberals, of course, welcome all forms of fossil-free electricity production. Electricity production based on sun and wind is obviously good but not without problems, especially since production cannot be guaranteed in weather-dependent electricity production. For a liberal, it is obvious that the expansion should be driven by the market and take place when it is needed and where it is needed. Renewable energy should be a means of achieving cheap and environmentally friendly electricity generation and not an end in itself. We would like to see different regulatory simplifications to facilitate the development of renewables, while taking reasonable account of other key societal interests. This may, for example, involve important environmental and natural interests or the needs of the defence. Instead of introducing short-term, complicated and market-distorting subsidies, we want to simplify the rules for fossil-free and small-scale electricity production. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that the Liberals' focus is on reducing emissions, both in Sweden and in our neighbourhood, while at the same time maintaining stable electricity production with competitive prices that benefit Swedish households and Swedish industry. We remain neutral in terms of energy, as long as they are fossil-free. Nor can I stress enough our concern about the increased impact challenge caused by more renewable electricity generation, while at the same time climate-smart and stable nuclear power is being shut down. In future winters, the availability of electricity will not be guaranteed. And, on the whole, we also need more market instead of subsidies. I naturally support the Liberals' budget and ask the House to take note of our specific opinion. We will therefore abstain from the decision.
i-4082462800771aed-1030	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri, for your speech! I'm gonna give you some simple questions that I'm hoping you'll find out. Do you think nuclear planning is safe? I am thinking of Olkiluoto 3 in Finland. At the start of the project, the plan was to cost EUR 3 billion. Now it is up to EUR 10 billion, and it is not finished yet. If I don't remember wrong, it would have been operational in 2014 or something, but it's still not operational. Do you think that the planning has been good, or why is it that it can fail – from EUR 3 billion to EUR 10 billion, and it is still not finished? You didn't say you love nuclear power, but you might like it anyway. Then I wonder: How much does a newly produced reactor cost before it is operational? You said yourself that you have to have competitive electricity prices for our industry and our population as a whole. What is your picture: How much does the electricity from a newly produced nuclear reactor cost?
i-4082462800771aed-1033	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lahti. The costs and investments are decided by the market. It is not for us in politics to decide what a reactor should cost. What I can say, however, is that there is a need for nuclear power, which the IPCC supports. If there is one thing we should listen to, it is the international councils, which are in control of the situation. The final cost of the reactor is a matter for the market, not for us in politics.
i-4082462800771aed-1036	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri, for your answer. I agree that it is not up to us to decide. But you're passionate about nuclear power, and you're saying that it should basically go ahead of wind power. You say it's so important. You must have some idea why it's competitive because you're defending it. The picture I give you is primarily about how uncertain the cost of building nuclear power is. In Finland, the cost went from EUR 3 billion to EUR 10 billion, and it is still not finished. How much do you think it'll cost? I agree that this is a matter for the market, but the market is giving the signals I told you about. Where's the price?
i-4082462800771aed-1038	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lahti. What it will cost in the end I cannot answer. It's kind of like asking, how long is a rope? If the market is prepared to make an investment and sees that it is possible, I think it is quite possible, but it is therefore the market that has to decide this, and someone is going to build it in the end. If you listen to the climate reports and the UN Panel on Climate Change, you also know that they see nuclear energy as an important part of achieving climate goals. We must start from this, not from what we think otherwise.
i-4082462800771aed-1040	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that we in this House have a broad energy agreement between several parties. I also think that the broad features of the report we are now debating reflect this. There are some exceptions, but overall I am pleased with the consensus that exists in Swedish energy policy and that we are going towards a system of 100% renewable electricity generation and more investment in wind, sun and so on. I was just about to dwell on the sun. It is an excellent source of energy. Not least, it gives our bodies energy through the food we eat – an energy that can best be used by stepping on a bicycle to work. But it can also supply the entire earth with electricity generation. If only a small portion of the solar energy that hits the earth had been taken up, one could in theory mobilise energy for the needs of the whole earth. In addition, it can be said that the sun in a 100% renewable energy system also complements the wind. Rickard Nordin was into this: If we had had more sun in the system, we wouldn't have been so close to a crisis that past summer. The sun and the wind complement each other in terms of high pressure and low pressure. Globally, there have been huge changes in the positive direction of solar energy in recent years. Technology development has been incredible, and it is very fun to see how much more has been installed and, not least, that the price of solar energy has gone down so much. In countries such as India, Chile, Germany and the Arabian Peninsula, there have been drastic falls in prices only in recent years. Much of this is due to the combination of clear policies and a private market that is interested in investing. But we should not forget politics here, and I would like to mention Germany's Energiewende in particular. There are many politicians who have barked at Germany and said that Energiewende has been a waste of tax revenue and the like. What these politicians are missing is that politics is more than economics. Politics is often economics combined with the understanding of political science and people's behaviour and market development over time. It is then known that all energy sources have historically been heavily dependent on subsidies at an initial stage. It is also known that large investments lead to technological development, which in turn leads to a fall in prices. Germany is perhaps the best example of this when it comes to the renewable energy revolution in which the world is living. The government coordinator for Fossil free Sweden, Svante Axelsson, usually says that if you meet a German you should take the opportunity to hug them. What Germany has done with its energy transition is, of course, to bring more renewable energy to Germany, but the fall in the price of renewable energy production worldwide is largely due to Germany. This is easily forgotten. Now that poor countries can afford and invest in clean, renewable energy production, it depends heavily on the investments that have been made in Germany. There are some countries that have been lagging behind in development. Sweden is actually one of them, unfortunately. But it's only up to now. The same kind of development that we have seen globally is now taking place in Sweden. In other words, investment is increasing exponentially and price trends are positive. This is again partly due to political reforms. The government that has now been in office for four years has made a series of reforms, both regulatory simplification reforms and economic incentives to promote solar energy. It is partly about us thinking that solar energy in itself is a very good energy source, and partly about that we want to get closer to the target of 100% renewable electricity production. In the area of regulation, we have ensured that you do not have to report to get the electricity meter replaced. Contacts with public authorities in general have been simplified. You no longer need to apply for building permits to put solar cells on your roof. It is a crucial reform. However, it does not need to register VAT in order to sell the excess electricity. The economic incentives include, in particular, tax reductions for excess electricity. We have introduced special support for storage, something that will be absolutely central the closer we get to the target of 100% renewable electricity production. The last and perhaps most important economic incentive is the PV subsidy. All of this has, as I said, led to a very important development in Sweden, namely an exponential increase in the total installed solar capacity in Sweden. It is therefore now sad to see that the right-wing parties are moving forward with almost a halving of the aid. It is very sad that the positive development will now be slowed down as a result of the policy of the Conservative right-wing parties in this area. This is very boring. I'll just briefly look into the future. As I said, we are well on our way now in terms of new capacity in the system in terms of wind and sun, but we will have to do more, not least from a system perspective. Some parties have chosen to do a great deal of security of supply and targets for it. For me, this is a little too planned to make sure I'm safe to formulate in that way. On the other hand, it would be nice to look at a flexibility objective in the system, i.e. not some form of state planning policy. I think we should leave that in the past; we know that it does not work very well. To achieve a target of flexibility and move towards a more flexible electricity market, we need to get system services going and the market for them. We need to get a much greater energy efficiency up and running than we have had. We need solutions for balance mass, which are available in many different directions. Down on the continent there is synthetic curvature in almost all wind turbines that have been set up. And we need to close the electricity certification system in balance as soon as possible. I have now mentioned some of the things that I see as important in the future in the overall development of the electricity market, in order for this to become more flexible and to cope with a 100% renewable electricity system. The Green Party will not take part in the decision; instead, we refer to our specific opinion.
i-4082462800771aed-1054	Madam President, I would like We are debating Category 21 Energy. Access to good, reliable, cheap and climate-friendly energy is an important political issue. It is an area where there is a lot of development at the moment, but also an area where much of the world's conflicts are moving. It will change the power position between countries when you switch from old fossil fuel to renewable. Access to energy is the foundation of society for many of the comforts and warmth we need but also for all our transport of people, goods and services. Access to energy is also crucial for the good standard of living we have in Sweden. The vast majority of our valuable export industry is both energy-intensive and completely dependent on the security of energy supply. Of our energy consumption, 40 per cent goes to housing and services, 37 per cent to our industry and 23 per cent to domestic transport. All energy savings and transitions to good climate and environmental options therefore play a role. Energy policy concerns almost everything. Although Sweden is an industrial country, with both heavy mining and forest industries, we have significantly lower emissions of carbon dioxide than other industrialized countries. Our industry is well aware of its responsibility to reduce consumption and find new methods in its processes – processes that consume less energy – and to make energy use more efficient. Sweden also has low-carbon energy production because we have hydropower, nuclear power and wind power. 2017 was a record year in terms of the use of both biofuels and wind power, while the use of fossil fuels decreased. Wind power currently accounts for as much as 11 per cent of Swedish energy production. Nuclear power still accounts for most of our energy production. After nuclear power, biofuels actually come, and in third place crude oil and petroleum. Biofuels are increasing at the same rate as oil products are declining. The largest renewable energy source today is biofuels, which now have a much greater use than oil. From having previously been most used as a heating fuel, biofuels have increased their share of the fuels in recent years. It is now the transport sector that uses most petroleum products. There it is still 68%, but biofuels are growing steadily. There are a lot of positive things happening in the energy sector in Sweden. Swedish energy policy is based on energy policy in the EU. There are tough goals to achieve in the energy sector, and Sweden has a good development in this area. We will reduce both energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 – targets set within the EU. The long-term goal is even more ambitious: 100% renewable in 2040. Already today, 58% of Swedish electricity comes from renewable sources. Even the solar cells are increasing significantly. Between 2016 and 2017, the number of grid-connected PV installations increased by good 52 per cent. There are currently over 15 000 installed plants with a total output of 231 megawatts. Therefore, it is not heavily subsidised PV expansions that are the important economic investment, as the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have also pointed out. It won't be the best use for the money spent. Solar cell prices have fallen almost to one third since 2010. However, it still costs to install. Therefore, the reduction in our budget of the subsidised subsidies from 30 to 15 % is a reasonable reduction. In addition, as many will have access to the grant when it is halved. You can also use ROT deductions to install solar cells, but you cannot combine the two deductions. With the ROT deduction it will be possible for many to invest in solar cells. It will also be profitable in the long run for the individual to install. We do not believe that we should subsidise something that actually flies on its own wings. Tax funds should be used where they are most needed. Furthermore, in our budget we want to reduce government money for energy advice in our municipalities. We believe that this function can be rationalised by more information online and that personal advice should not be so large that it needs to cost so much. Municipalities can coordinate energy advisory information and make it more efficient. The challenges that would have a major impact in the future are better infrastructure for small-scale electricity generation from solar cells, as today's electricity grid is very adapted to large-scale electricity generation, how we switch transport to electricity, biofuels or hydrogen, which are the energy forms that currently exist in the front line, and how we create balance and flexibility in an electricity system that is controlled by natural forces such as solar and wind; the best thing would be if the power could be stored. Tax resources in the energy sector should also be used resource-efficiently. Only then can we create a good energy policy.
i-4082462800771aed-1068	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my speech, we are already in a rather unique situation in modern times, with an imminent lack of impact, and the situation seems to be getting even worse around the corner with the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2. Vattenfall currently has only economic objectives, and decisions as such can be said to be economically rational, as it is more profitable to build new electricity production with lower availability. There are politically-decided subsidies that make this possible. That is also what is at the heart of the problem of energy policy: that the market is politically regulated in many ways by various market distortions in the form of subsidies. Here we Swedish democrats think that there is every reason, when the state now has an energy company, to consider whether to use it to further reduce the security of supply in the power system and also to reduce the conditions for electricity-intensive industry to be able to operate in Sweden, which risks having even greater consequences from a socio-economic perspective when industry and jobs leave Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask whether the Moderates are open to giving Vattenfall ownership directives to take into account needs other than the specific economic objectives, for example linked to security of supply.
i-4082462800771aed-1072	Madam President, I would like The fact that we have a safe supply of energy is hugely important. Just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson claimed, a large part of our industries are hugely energy-intensive, and they are energy-intensive at certain times. It's not all day, and it's not every day of the year. It can happen at the same time as we have a cold snap. This is a dilemma. However, it is important to try to address these problems at company level if we are not to manage them in detail. But, of course, we must not put our industries without reliable energy. Of course, it's important. Perhaps this is something we need to consider. I'm not saying that's what we've been thinking. But there is also a lot of other energy. There is even talk of perhaps having wind farms that can store hydrogen energy that can be used at peaks. Therefore, nuclear power may not be the only levelling energy in the future.
i-4082462800771aed-1074	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether I am going to interpret the answer from Lotta Olsson as a good or a weak yes in this context. From our side we may find it a little strange when the state has an energy company if you just look at the economic goals. Maybe it'll be a little backwards. If this company can then help to reduce the security of supply, it can be good for the company in purely business terms but bad for the country. Then we do not think it is a good idea to have this company in these forms. Of course, the conditions should be used. Here there are two plants where the technical lifetime has not passed but which, on purely economic grounds, are chosen to close down, thus reducing the security of supply. There are absolute alternatives. It's about costs. The reason you don't use hydrogen is that you can then convert it in one direction from electricity to hydrogen and to electricity again. It is considerably more expensive than continuing to run these facilities.
i-4082462800771aed-1076	Madam President, I would like A great deal is happening, as I said, in these sectors. Both the forest industry and the heavy industry are doing an enormous amount now. I'm actually surprised when I listen to them how much is going on. Many have enormous energy skills and know how to balance these different forces. It may be enough to switch to different times of the day. It may be that if we run washing machines, some of our facilities or industries in a different time of day, that may be enough. I do not think, therefore, that we should paint the problems to begin with, but see what we can do without increasing the energy consumption. There is a great deal that can be done, and a great deal is happening in this area.
i-4082462800771aed-1078	Madam President, I would like Much in energy policy we fully agree on cross-border, which, of course, I think is a good thing. But there are, of course, differences, and that is a good thing. One area where there are political differences concerns support for solar cells. Assessors say that in the future energy system we may need 5-10 percent solar electricity. Maybe it's a reasonable level, what do I know? The future will tell. Whatever the case, the solar revolution that has been going on in the country is in danger of halting by the fact that there are now massive reductions in the support for solar electricity. We received information last week in committee when we were preparing this dossier. It turns out that the PV support sex is equivalent to SEK 900 million. I have a question for Lotta Olsson and the Moderates. You're pulling down the solar cell support by SEK 440 million. What information do you have for those who suffer it, those who do not receive it, or those who receive half of the aid?
i-4082462800771aed-1081	Madam President, I would like The fact that you are going to be without support is a hypothetical question, because you can also use ROT deductions. For a normal villa, installing solar panels costs an average of $100,000. The aid would then be reduced from SEK 30 000 to SEK 15 000. This is 15 000 crowns that will eventually benefit from having a more energy efficient house. I don't really see the big problem picture that Patrik Engström sees. I also think that we should be extremely careful when using tax funds. This trend is underway, and prices have fallen to one third since 2010. If you own a villa, a townhouse or a friggebod, you know that you have to look long-term when you invest in good and smart things. I cannot therefore quite see this dilemma. The solar cells are here, and it's rolling. Moreover, should those who work with installations and so on be used in a good and efficient way and not only have jobs for a few years when everyone installs but perhaps have a slightly better long-term forecast for work, this is good. In addition, we do not yet have such a good infrastructure for solar cells. It could be a problem. I'm sorry, Patrik Engström, but I don't actually see the dilemma the same way. In addition, people will get a little more money left in their wallet if they work. Then they can invest them in solar cells.
i-4082462800771aed-1086	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We should certainly be careful of the tax revenue. That, I believe, is part of the mission. In my right-of-occupancy association, we were about to invest in solar cells. But for various reasons it did not happen. Perhaps it was lucky, for it was this summer that this decision was to be made. So it was a decision that would have been made according to what was at the time. This is the big challenge I think personally, namely that homeowners and other property owners have made a calculation of an investment of SEK 100 000, for example. And all of a sudden, from one day to another, the conditions change quite radically. I understand if they get very upset now. Lotta Olsson, what is the message to those who have invested in this?
i-4082462800771aed-1089	Madam President, I would like The statement is that there is still quite a generous ROT deduction, and many will still receive PV support. I definitely think you should invest in solar cells. I find it very strange whether a tenant-owner's association, a home owner, a car owner or someone who has an economy at all mortgages something that they actually do not know anything about for the future. I'm afraid to make investments if I don't know I'm going to get support and if I can't afford it. My advice is that maybe you should wait a little bit and take part of the job tax deduction and save it to invest in solar cells. It pays off in the long term. The money will come back if you invest it. Besides, interest rates are not so high right now.
i-4082462800771aed-1092	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Lotta Olsson! There was one thing I reacted to. I didn't press the button to ask for a reply until you said tax money should be used where it's most useful. I'd like to ask about that. We are here today because you got a budget for the framework instead of the transitional government's draft budget, which would only be temporary until we have a government in place. In the budget, you press that you think gardening is so important that you should be able to deduct 75 000 per year for gardening. Do you think that's right, Lotta Olsson? You were so careful that tax money should be used where it is most useful. Tell me how you can defend the deduction of $75,000 for gardening! How can it be so important to get it into this kind of budget?
i-4082462800771aed-1094	Madam President, I would like I can defend deductions for gardening costs. Then I do not think that anyone will deduct 75 000 just for gardening, but that is what you can totally deduct. There are many old people who live in their houses and who may not be able to care for everything in their garden even if they care for certain parts. There are also many who can do that job and who may not otherwise have a job. People will have to pay with their private finances to hire a person they might not otherwise hire. I believe that in many ways it is possible for those who need to buy the service to be able to afford to do so. Those with good finances will still be able to buy the service; this is often true of those who might not be willing to pay for gardening. I therefore firmly believe that this can be defended. Moreover, those who do this job will pay taxes, which also go to the public. It will also reduce the number of people who hire without paying white money, and that is something we all benefit from – that the tax money comes in instead of just not being there.
i-4082462800771aed-1097	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Lotta Olsson! I look forward to an evaluation of who has made use of this after a year. I am convinced that, like all other ROT deductions, it will hit those who are the highest in the ranking – those who earn the most, are the most wealthy and use the ROT deductions the most. You say tax money should be used where it is most useful, Lotta Olsson, but at least you don't convince me. We will see who would have such a garden that they need to use help for 75 000, but I look forward to an evaluation of who has made use of these ROT deductions – just as has been done for all other ROT deductions. I want to say something short about solar energy. That's where you strangle because it's done for other reasons too. There you could have had the same answer as when it comes to gardening.
i-4082462800771aed-1100	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone will deduct 75 000 crowns for the garden, but you may need other services. Maybe your old mom needs other favors. You may want cleaning, and you may want someone to help you move. Then you have a tree to be pruned, but you don't dare stand on the ladder. We will also make some money out of that, because you will not fall down the ladder because you prune your own trees. Anyone who has worked in a hospital knows that a lot of strange things happen when people try to do things they can't anymore. I still believe in this. I think it's ordinary people who will use this. If you are a multi-millionaire, this deduction does not matter so much, but it is about ordinary people being able to use a range of services they would otherwise not be able to use. Besides, people get jobs. I believe in those ideas.
i-4082462800771aed-1102	Madam President, I would like A lot of people asked for a line. If my post was narrow, Lotta Olsson's post was broad, which I appreciate. Of course, you should also have that perspective on the whole energy sector. I was going to say that I share Lotta Olsson's commitment and enthusiasm for bioenergy. We know that biomaterials will play a role in the different parts of the energy transition we are in. However, I am not as super-optimistic, if I shall call it that, about this. An important reason for this is that we have a huge energy demand in the Western world and an increasing energy demand in the large parts of the world that are now becoming richer, and the question is really where to get all the biomaterials from. For example, you can take the flight as an example. We Swedes are among those who fly the most the world. For example, if you ask SAS if they would be able to cope with a 1 per cent bioenergy involvement in their fossil fuel, i.e. biojet, they answer that it had not been possible. There are so many different sectors that are looking for this raw material: we have the textile industry, which wants to do more in this, and we have the whole chemical industry. We have a huge and increasing demand for fuels for road transport. Now we also see that the range of palm oil-based fuels is breaking through on a broad front here in Sweden, which is very worrying. So I wonder: do the Moderates have calculations that show that we will actually be able to do this with the biomaterials that exist in the world? That's my question.
i-4082462800771aed-1106	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the very interesting questions, Lorentz Tovatt! Personally, I believe that the transition to bioenergy will be a transitional phase, although it may be for a number of years. I believe that, if we look far enough into the future, it may be solar energy, wind and such forces that will be so developed that we can get by completely on them. On the other hand, we are all likely to want to wear clothes, so I believe that in the future our forest will be used for the clothing industry instead. But before we are there and before the development of technology has come that far, I think we need to go through this phase and exchange the fossil fuels. It is also the case that we must use nuclear power; even if it is not a future industry, we must also use it for the foreseeable future if we are to deal with the climate issue. In other words, I think that we are deluding ourselves when we think that we have found the optimal solution to the energy problem today. There's gonna be a lot going on. I have even seen that you could have solar cells instead of tin on cars, and they would then handle the entire energy supply for the car. Maybe it could be like that on airplanes, too. I therefore very much believe in technology development and that we must be as smart in removing things that are out of date as in bringing in the new. We need to be transparent and really see technology development and make full use of its potential. Many countries will not have gone the long way we have done either. Just as in Africa it goes directly to mobile telephony without going through copper pipelines, many countries will jump on the latest technology directly. In fact, I am very optimistic in this area.
i-4082462800771aed-1110	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Lotta Olsson! Once again, I share Lotta Olsson's view that the ultimate objective is, you might say, electrification. What I wanted to show by my question, however, was that politics is not really connected here. To take flying again as an example: If everyone in the world were to fly as much as we Swedes do, what would it take to have 100 percent renewable energy in aircraft tanks? Well, that would require us to cultivate every surface of the globe. It says something about the need for energy. Therefore, the most important question here is really why the Moderates have now presented a budget that removes the measures that exist to curb energy demand, such as a flight tax. That is the only way we can actually reduce the need for energy to transport in aviation.
i-4082462800771aed-1113	Madam President, I would like It's all connected. I do not believe in the total romanticisation of our railway; it costs 1 billion to build a mile of rail, and it takes a very long time before you have brought back those resources and costs, both financially and in terms of the environment. If we find a good fuel – and right now it is biofuels – where you can jump from A to B by plane instead of making a lot of damage along the way, it will be a very good solution for long journeys. It's not about commuting to work – I don't think so – but if you're going to fly from upper Norrland to Stockholm, there's nothing that's going to compete. It's very hard to see today. I can't see it.
i-4082462800771aed-1115	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that a secure and secure energy supply is an important engine in our economy and crucial to our well-being. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to rely on a stable and reliable electricity supply. Long-term rules of the game and stable conditions in the electricity market are of great importance for Swedish jobs and competitiveness. Energy policy will enable future generations to live and operate in a sustainable society. We want to see a diversity of renewable energy in industry, energy efficiency improvements and more investment in long-term and sustainable energy sources. Alarm reports about Sweden's electricity supply are heard from several sources. We Christian Democrats think it is time to take these concerns very seriously. Sweden's shortcomings in energy supply are at risk of serious consequences. The Swedish Power Network company earlier this year warned of a greater power shortage in the coming winter, with costly consequences for consumers. The variable electricity price is now at the highest level since 2011. The power shortage is expected to increase again next year, and a contributing factor is that the Ringhals 1 and 2 reactors will be closed in 2020 and 2019. Madam President, I would like When major shortages in electricity supply are repeatedly pointed out and concerns have become a part of the industry's everyday life, it has an impact on the future to the extent that we need to take action. Industry accounts for thousands of jobs that are important for Sweden's prosperity, just as other industries are. More companies are making a transition today and are moving towards electrification and digitalisation. If nothing is done, more companies will have to reconsider whether Sweden gives them the best conditions. It is of great importance what signals we send to investors for start-ups of, for example, data and server halls. That is why we need to take the concerns seriously, for the sake of the climate. Sweden's electricity needs will increase – and this will be significant – if we are to continue to develop society and reduce oil dependence while meeting climate targets. Planning for increased use of electricity should be based on an electricity demand of at least 200 terawatt hours in 2045, which is 40 terawatt hours more than today if all commitments are to be met. All non-fossil energies are needed here. An extended electricity network is also crucial. Madam President, I would like On the basis of the Energy Agreement, Sweden needs to resume the planning of new nuclear reactors. Sweden should cooperate with other nuclear countries, both in Europe and on other continents, to develop a few standardised power plants with a reasonable price tag and construction time. New nuclear power is an important issue, not only for Sweden but above all at a global level. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), nuclear power is necessary to meet climate targets. Today, Russia and China build the most reactors. Here the Western countries have a common responsibility to be involved. Sweden needs to put pressure on our neighbours Germany, Poland, Denmark and Finland to dismantle their coal power. These countries have coal power equivalent to 80 nuclear reactors. In addition to being hugely climate-destructive, carbon power contributes annually to the premature death of hundreds of people through asthma, cancer, and other diseases caused by coal burning. If these coal power plants are not closed, what Sweden does for the climate will be almost meaningless. Sweden, together with our neighbouring countries, also needs to set a target for security of supply. Today, no one is responsible for the long-term availability of electricity in the grid, which means that everyone is acting in the short term. Electricity is not just any commodity; therefore, operators in the electricity market should be required to have a long-term perspective. I am often asked how 100% of renewable energy goes together with nuclear energy, which we have in the energy agreement. As the goal is formulated, nuclear energy is included. I refer once again to the UN Panel on Climate Change, which points out the need for 500 new nuclear reactors in the world if we are to achieve the climate targets. We Christian Democrats believe that nuclear power, in line with the energy agreement, should be developed, not phased out. The hydroelectric power must be protected. The use of electricity needs to be increased for the sake of the climate. Wind and solar energy will be expanded and delivery security targets will have to be developed. Madam President, I would like Christian Democrats want to see a diversity of renewable energy in transport, industry, heating and electricity generation. We aim for an energy system that includes both large-scale and small-scale elements adapted to local and industrial needs. Each force has its advantages and disadvantages, and it is these different forces that provide a robust and sustainable energy supply. The major challenge is to secure and supply electricity in the long term at internationally competitive prices and to ensure that research and new technologies are added in different energy areas, which will be central to the future in order to have a stable electricity and energy system. Solar energy is an important climate-smart part of our energy system. Swedish solar energy research is very prominent, and solar energy has a great potential for development in Sweden. The solar cell market continues to grow. One of the reasons for the increase may be the tax reduction introduced in 2015. The cost of installing solar cells has been reduced, which means that it would be desirable to reduce the aid from 30 % to 15 % of the investment cost. This would allow the solar industry to stand on its own feet in the future. A phasing-out of aid shall take place gradually and in a controlled manner. It is thanks to the combination of nuclear, hydro, bio and wind power that Sweden is the country within the EU that has the lowest climate emissions in its electricity production. The Christian Democrats defend the goal of Sweden having a sustainable and resource efficient energy supply and no net greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere in 2050. We therefore need to step up work on climate and energy issues at both national and international level in order to achieve these climate objectives. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-4082462800771aed-1132	Madam President, I would like After all, the Christian Democrats are part of the Energy Agreement, and I assume that it intends to continue to be so. Camilla Brodin spoke very much about nuclear energy in her speech. Nuclear power has served us well, but it has its obvious flaws. Birger Lahti mentioned the Finnish example. According to my information, they are ten years behind schedule with that construction. In England, where energy issues may also have been neglected, prices for newly produced nuclear power are horrifying. We should not forget this when discussing energy issues. At the same time, it is the case that the price for producing wind power only falls and falls and is significantly lower. When you talk to Svensk Vindenergi, they say about the forecast they have for the next few years – to invest more than 40 billion in the production of new wind power – that the new production will correspond to the production that is missing from two closed nuclear power plants. My question to Camilla Brodin is therefore: must it be nuclear power in the new energy system, or could it be that new wind power could very well correspond to the loss of production from possible nuclear power plants in the future?
i-4082462800771aed-1138	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Engström, for the questions. We are not going to leave the energy agreement, and I am happy to talk about nuclear power, wind power, solar power and all kinds of power. I think we need to keep working on the energy agreement and listen to the climate reports that the IPCC has now come up with. You can see that the whole world needs and faces electrification if we are to meet climate goals, and we need more energy. Then nuclear power plants are part of it. I also believe that we must move towards the standardisation of nuclear power plants and that we are involved in building so that construction time can be reduced and that this is done at competitive prices. This applies not only in Sweden, but also in other nuclear power countries and make sure that nuclear power becomes an export product and not just ends up in Sweden – precisely so that we can meet the climate targets.
i-4082462800771aed-1141	Madam President, I would like I got a little calmer. I personally still think that nuclear power has served us well, but that it has its obvious shortcomings in terms of safety and construction costs. Why not look at the new, such as wind power, which has had quite a magical development and which may well compensate for the loss of nuclear power? It would be cheaper and safer, according to my view. I hope that the Christian Democrats do not expect politics to go in and demand anything. I hope that they do not want political decisions that say anything about the owners of nuclear power plants continuing to operate.
i-4082462800771aed-1144	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Engström, for the further questions! Wind power is absolutely what we should have; we do not say no to that. However, we must take seriously the lack of impact and the signals we see from various quarters, especially from industry. We will not be able to deliver this electricity right now. That is why our nuclear power plants are needed. We do not believe that the wind will be able to replace them entirely today. But we will need all kinds of energy if we are to be able to deliver our energy in the future. I believe that all these energies are needed, and we need to find a way to ensure how all types of energy will survive in the future as well.
i-4082462800771aed-1147	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for your speech! It will be interesting to hear your answer when I ask the question: Will the Christian Democrats leave the energy settlement? What you're saying is that Sweden should adopt a target for new nuclear power. In the energy agreement, you say that the establishment of new reactors in existing sites should not be stopped, but that this should happen without support. You are now saying that we should have competitive prices for electrical energy. As has emerged from the debate, we also want to phase out aid gradually from the sun and wind, because it is not needed in the future. Today, land-based wind power can be produced for 34 øre per kilowatt hour. The examples I have taken are from Olkiluoto 3. It is not finished yet, but as it stands today, the price of the cost of capital to deliver will be just over a penny. I'm sure I know, but I don't know how much more. As I said, the reactor is not even finished, so the price can be 1.50 or 2 bucks before it is finished. Tell me about your piece of art! You should have competitive prices, you are in the energy agreement, where it is said that it will happen without support, and you want a plan for new nuclear power in Sweden. Tell me how that trick goes together!
i-4082462800771aed-1151	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Birger Lahti. As I said to Mr Engström, we will not leave the energy agreement. It says it should be 100% renewable and nuclear. We see that we need to take the alarm reports seriously, and we cannot close our eyes to the fact that we see before us: If Sweden is to be able to supply electricity in the future to meet the climate goals, we need to reset. Here are tasks with new technologies where we have to ensure that we have all the different types of energy in place in order to be able to do this completely in a way that is safe to live. As for the exact crowns and the ring for nuclear power, wind power, solar power and so on, I do not have the answers here today. But I know it can work.
i-4082462800771aed-1154	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the answers! But then I'll read your deal differently than you do. You're talking about 100% renewable and nuclear. You say that if nuclear power is built without support, it should be possible to build it. But you say in your speech that Sweden will adopt a plan for new nuclear power and that we will have competitive prices. For me, at least 34 cents is significantly cheaper than just over a penny. I can't get the math together, but maybe you have some information that I don't have. I'm looking forward to how you're gonna do the trick. As far as the impact is concerned, there are plenty of technologies that are moving forward, so I am convinced that we will fix this with a European common energy market. Patrik was also into this, and I think this is a success. But tell me how you're going to succeed with both! You're in the deal, and you're saying you're gonna make a plan. The way it sounds to me, you're talking a little bit about plan economy.
i-4082462800771aed-1158	Madam President, I would like I think we should continue to discuss how we can find a supply of electricity and energy that lasts over time. This is not something that is being conjured up in a flash. However, I have just read a report that has been released that it is difficult to obtain materials for solar and wind power. How are we to ensure that our electricity supply will be managed in the future when we do not know how safe all other energy sources are? We cannot rely on what exists today, but we must keep up to date with the development of new technologies and the development of new nuclear power. Here we are investing in research in the future, so I believe that we will find a broad agreement in this.
i-4082462800771aed-1160	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me just say that it's great to hear Camilla Brodin's commitment to the climate. As soon as she talks about nuclear power, it is a burning commitment to the climate, and new for this time was also air quality. Of course, the same commitment to these issues would have been incredible, not least with regard to, for example, the terrible exhaust gases of diesel cars in the urban environment that cause asthma to our children. But I am happy as long as there is a commitment to energy issues. I was gonna ask you a question. I have noted – with some confusion, I can add – the fluctuations of the Christian Democrats here and there recently on the nuclear issue. It has long been legal in Sweden, for quite a few years now, to push forward the reactors we have in Sweden. It has also been legal to build new ones. Yet the market has been clear, not least in recent years. Vattenfall's decision on the Ringhals reactors has been made on market grounds. It is a decision taken by Vattenfall's board, which we politicians have nothing to do with. It is interesting with KD's new view of this. Do you know anything that Vattenfall or we in here do not know about the market conditions for continuing these two reactors? It would be great to hear whether Camilla Brodin has any information that Vattenfall's board might not have.
i-4082462800771aed-1163	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz. That was a lot of questions and claims. We are both part of the Energy Agreement Implementation Group. You spoke first of all about air quality, and I believe and hope that you, too, want to move towards electrification of the whole transport sector so that we can reach the climate targets. That we then need more electricity and that we need all kinds of energy we agree on. Vattenfall has decided to shut down Ringhals 1 and 2. But after that decision, the impact tax has been removed, and we have got a new climate law in place. The Paris Agreement and the IPCC's new report on more nuclear power plants in the world in order to meet the climate targets must be taken into account when moving forward on these issues. We cannot make decisions and believe that this should always be the case, but we must adopt new technologies. But that I'd sit on more information than Vattenfall, that's where you're wrong.
i-4082462800771aed-1167	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for her reply. Let me make one thing clear. The IPCC report is based on different forecasts. In the same way as the International Energy Council, they are producing forecasts of what they see as different paths ahead, and there are forecasts that show that we could have an electricity system without nuclear power. So the nuclear issue is a slight misunderstanding which has occurred in the debate and which you should correct. I did not really get the answer to the question of marketability. Vattenfall has also made it clear in the past that there is no market basis for the continuation of these two nuclear reactors. The question then is: does Camilla Brodin look forward to large government subsidies? In addition, KD has begun to talk about building new ones. Who's gonna do it? Is there any market basis for this at all?
i-4082462800771aed-1172	Madam President, I would like I repeat: in order for us to reach the climate targets, we need to switch to electrification as we digitalise, robotise and so on. Just think of how many different appliances we have at home that we load every day; that's everything from small to large. We see that we will need more electricity in the future, and that is why our nuclear reactors are needed. We must believe in all our energies and not give the signal that this will be phased out, because then we will not be able to achieve the climate targets in time, which we must.
