i-af40d22fa7ff6200-7	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Johansson has asked Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström whether it is her view that Sweden has changed its position on the EU's fisheries agreement with Morocco and that that is why, instead of unequivocally voting 'no', it has now abstained and, if so, on which grounds the position has changed. She has also asked whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers it important to comply with the Court of Justice's decision that the EU fisheries agreement with Morocco does not apply to Western Sahara and its waters. Finally, Lotta Johansson Fornarve has asked the Minister whether she considers it important to follow the decision of the Court of Justice that the association agreement between Morocco and the EU does not include Western Sahara and that it is the Polisario that is the legitimate representatives of the Western Sahara and thus the only party that has the right to negotiate agreements on Western Sahara. The interpellation has been handed over to me. On 8 January 2018, the Commission recommended that the Council authorise the Commission to open negotiations for a new protocol in the framework of the EU Fisheries Partners Agreement with Morocco. The current Protocol expires on 14 July 2018. At the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 19 February 2018, the Commission was authorised to open negotiations on a new Protocol with Morocco. Sweden was the only country to vote against the authorisation. In a judgment of 27 February 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, concluded that the waters adjacent to Western Sahara are not part of the fishing zone referred to in the Fisheries Partners Agreement — Case C-266/16. The judgment in turn refers to a previous judgment — Case C-104/16 P. The government's assessment is that the rulings of the European Court of Justice are broadly in line with Sweden's previous position on the matter. Following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 27 February 2018, the Commission adopted on 22 March 2018 a new recommendation to the Council authorising the Commission to open negotiations on an addendum to the EU-Morocco Fisheries Partners Agreement and on a new protocol. Under the latter authorisation, the Commission is to ensure that the population concerned is adequately involved and that this is done in accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The writing is new and has approached the line that Sweden has taken on the importance of compliance with relevant international law requirements. According to a Swedish interpretation of the judges, they mean that Morocco does not represent the Sahrawi people and that the consent of the Sahrawi people should be obtained. The government believes that Polisario is a representative of the Sahrawi people and therefore needs to be consulted. It is important that the Sahrawi people give their consent to an agreement and that the consent is informed and voluntary. Overall, the Government considers that the authorisation has improved significantly compared to the authorisation that Sweden voted against in February 2018. Given that there is still uncertainty as to how the authorisation can be implemented, Sweden abstained from voting when the issue was raised at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 16 April 2018. The Government also received the support of the Riksdag for this line during discussions in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on 12 April 2018. Once the amendment to the agreement and the protocol are negotiated, it will be submitted to the Council again. On the last issue, the Government considers that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union should be complied with and that its decisions should be implemented as soon as possible. In this case, the judgment of 27 February 2018 resulted in a new authorisation for the Commission to open negotiations with Morocco on additional agreements to the Fisheries Partners Agreement. The Government intends to promote this process in line with international law, including the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Commission's handling of the issue on the basis of the authorisation will be crucial for the government's continued position.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-12	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation about Morocco and the fisheries agreement with the EU! May I just begin by correcting the minister regarding my name: I am Johnsson Fornarve, not Johansson. It's easy to get it wrong. Morocco's illegal occupation of Western Sahara has now been going on for 43 years. This is completely contrary both to the decisions of the UN and to the decisions of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The Sahrawi population is subjected to human rights violations, harassment, persecution, arbitrary arrests and also torture on a daily basis. Morocco is trying to sabotage any attempt to find a solution to the situation and refuses to agree to the referendum planned by the United Nations, on which it was decided already 27 years ago. The arocan plundering of Western Sahara's raw materials is the root cause of the occupation, where fishing is a very important part. In July 2018, the EU-Morocco Fisheries Agreement will expire. The EU has paid Morocco EUR 30 million annually to allow a large number of fishing vessels, especially from Spain but also from other European countries, to fish in the fish-rich waters off the coast of Western Sahara. That is where 90% of Morocco's fishing exports come from. This agreement is contrary both to international law and to the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in two separate judgments. Morocco, as an occupying power, has no right whatsoever to the Sahrawi raw materials. These belong entirely to the Sahrawi population. In December 2016, the EU Court of Justice ruled that the EU-Morocco Trade and Agriculture Agreement does not apply to Sahrawi goods, as Western Sahara does not belong to Morocco. And on 27 February 2018, the European Court of Justice also ruled that the fisheries agreement between Morocco and the EU does not apply to Western Sahara either. These judgments are absolutely clear. It is therefore scandalous that the Commission is now trying to circumvent these judgments and undermine its own court by renegotiating the fisheries agreement with Morocco, so that Western Sahara too can be included once again. It is clear that the Commission is trying to get around the verdict by not clearly mentioning that it is the Sahrawi people who should be consulted using these terms: the local population to be heard. Mr President, I would like to This is not good enough. Hearing the local population can mean just about anything. There are plenty of Moroccans in the area – Moroccans who have been transferred to Western Sahara, particularly in connection with the green march, which was the start of the illegal occupation. The only legitimate representative of the people of Western Sahara is Polisario, and as long as the Commission does not explicitly intend to negotiate with Polisario as the partner of the Western Sahara, it is a clear violation of the decision of the European Court of Justice. Sweden should therefore have voted against further negotiations under these conditions. I would also like to remind you that it was far from a united parliament that supported the Swedish line of abstaining, and I believe that Sweden's action means that in practice we no longer stand up for international law and international law. The Minister says in his reply that the government considers Polisario to be a representative of the Sahrawi people and therefore needs to be consulted. It is important that the Sahrawi people give their consent to an agreement and that the consent is informed and voluntary. I would like clarification on this point. Does the Minister think that Polisario is the only legitimate representative of the Sahrawi people in line with the UN? Will the Minister act because the only way to negotiate agreements involving Western Sahara is with the Sahrawi people and then through the legitimate representative of the United Nations, Polisario? If this does not happen, will Sweden take a clear stand against a fisheries agreement with Morocco involving Western Sahara?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve! This is an important and at the same time complex issue, and it is therefore a good thing that I have the opportunity to present the government's view on this issue. It is quite clear that, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, that agreement does not apply to the waters bordering Western Sahara. So it is written in the judgment. This is a significant step forward towards how it has been in the past. The agreement is also contrary to international law and the principle of self-determination, and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is also in line with how Sweden has been acting on the matter for a long time. The Swedish interpretation is that consent must be obtained, and if you obtain and obtain consent, the income must also be paid to the Sahrawi people and no one else. The government's line has always been, and we have also stated all along, that the mandate to the Commission must be in line with international law. The people of Western Sahara must be fully involved in a process. Unlike previous appropriations, Western Sahara is now explicitly mentioned, and it is also a step forward. The government is following this issue very closely, and we will also work to ensure that the Commission complies with international law and also with the position expressed by the European Court of Justice. It is important that the issue is dealt with correctly. We did not go so far as to vote in favour, but abstained. In fact, considerable progress had been made, which is why we abstained. We will wait for the question and see how we will finally take a position.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not entirely agree that great progress has been made, but I think it is quite clear that the Commission is trying to circumvent the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union from two equally obedient separate judgments, which clearly state that the Moroccan occupying power has no right whatsoever to the Sahrawi raw materials without them belonging to the Sahrawi people. The last judgment, which came on 27 February 2018 and specifically concerned the fisheries agreement, made it clear that the agreement between Morocco and the EU does not apply to Western Sahara unless the Sahrawi people give their consent through their legitimate representative, Polisario. The Commission's move to replace the agreement of the Sahrawi Government with a so-called consultation procedure and to talk about the local population instead of the people of Western Sahara is problematic in its wording. As Moroccan settlers constitute a majority of the local population, this is clearly a breach of the ruling. After all, the vast majority of the Sahrawi people living in the refugee camps in Algeria have been completely excluded from the talks, which has led to the refusal of all the Sahrawi civilian organisations to participate because of the lack of transparency and credibility. It is also shameful that the Commission's representatives use the terminology of the southern provinces in referring to the Sahrawi territories illegally occupied by Morocco. It is a terminology used by Morocco to provoke and try to undermine the position of Western Sahara and a terminology that is totally contrary to UN resolutions. This shows contempt for the international status of Western Sahara as a non-self-governing territory subject to the UN decolonisation process. The people of Western Sahara have nothing to gain from the exploitation and export of their natural resources against their consent. On the contrary, this will benefit Morocco and the illegal occupation that has now been going on for 43 years. It is high time that the decolonisation process took off seriously so that the referendum planned by the United Nations could take place as soon as possible. Instead of contributing constructively to this process, however, the European Commission is now trying to prevent development and press for a free trade agreement that includes Western Sahara, thereby strengthening the control of the occupying power. Including Western Sahara in the FTA will also prevent and significantly hamper the work of the UN and the efforts of the UN Secretary-General's personal envoy Horst Horst. Furthermore, the agreement is a clear breach of both the decision of the Court of Justice and international law. Will Sweden vigorously act to prevent violations of the EU Court of Justice decisions of December 2016 and February 2018 concerning trade between the EU and Morocco so that the organised looting of Western Sahara's natural resources, including fisheries, is stopped and international law respected?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-33	Mr President, I would like to On the question of Polisario, the European Court of Justice has not said that Polisario is the only representative but that Polisario is a representative. The mandate of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement has several similarities with the mandate that is an addition to the Agriculture Agreement that Sweden supported last year. Both of these agreements contain references precisely to the involvement of the population and to the benefit of the population. It is very important that those pieces are included. In addition to this mandate, the mandate for the Fisheries e Partnership Agreement contains a clear reference to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. When it comes to monitoring and reporting, the government has not received any written information yet, although we have reminded it. We are therefore not updated exactly on what is happening now. Therefore, it is also a bit difficult to give any time frame for when this could come up for treatment again. It is also clear that there are several Member States that have strong interests in this and that are pushing – that is the case. We are keen to have an agreement before the current agreement expires on 14 July, so it is clear that there is pressure from there too. I would also like to mention that, when we abstained in the vote, we gave a clear explanation of vote as to why we did so. It is very important that the Commission should now deal with this issue properly from the point of view of international law, but also from the point of view of the judgment that has fallen. I would also like to mention that the government has been in contact with other Member States of the Union in the past on this issue. We have also had contact with institutions and also with Morocco and Polisario. We intend to maintain these contacts in the further process.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-39	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is true that there are strong forces in the EU that are on Morocco's side, and that is why it is so incredibly important that Sweden stands up for international law and for the Sahrawi people. We must show solidarity and really stand up for the unequivocal judgments passed by the European Court of Justice that it is the Sahrawi people who have the right to their natural resources and not Morocco, because Western Sahara is occupied. I very much expect the government now to show its solidarity with the Sahrawi people and to act in order to comply with the decisions of the European Court of Justice concerning trade between the EU and Morocco and not to include the occupied Western Sahara against the will of the Sahrawi people. When you talk about the Sahrawi people, it is about those who live in the occupied area but also about those who live in the refugee camps, and it is Polisario who is appointed by the UN as the legitimate representative of Western Sahara. There is no doubt about that. I expect the Swedish Government to act. The only way to negotiate agreements involving Western Sahara is to negotiate with the Sahrawi people through the legitimate representative of the United Nations, Polisario. If this does not happen, I hope that Sweden will use its vote in the EU to clearly mark against the EU's illegal agreement with Morocco on the EU-Morocco fisheries agreement.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-43	Mr President, I would like to The Western Sahara issue is a top priority for the government. We have a broad commitment to this issue and work actively in several fora, including the UN Security Council. The government also gives full and active support to the UN's work aimed at finding a fair and mutually acceptable negotiated solution in which the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination is satisfied. With regard to the recognition of Western Sahara, the government is consistent in its approach. The government supports the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination and fully supports the ongoing political process under UN review. It also includes the work carried out to find a solution to the enjoyment of the Western Sahara's right to self-determination. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me reiterate the basic position of the government regarding the mandate to the Fisheries Partnership Agreement. The government welcomes the fact that the Commission has improved the text of the mandate in several areas in relation to the previous text. Although the government believes that the text of the mandate has improved significantly, we have not voted in favour of it. There is uncertainty as to how the mandate can be implemented. Against this background, Sweden abstained. As Lotta Johnsson will know, on two occasions I have been to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture for discussions and discussions, and I have received Parliament's support for the chosen line. It is now up to the Commission to implement the mandate. The way in which it is done will be crucial to the government's position on the final agreement. Thank you for a good debate.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-48	Mr President, I would like to Christina Örnebjär has asked me three questions about mini-pigs. Christina Örnebjär has asked me If I intend to take the initiative to clarify the recommendations and regulations contained in L 80 in order, for example, to create a single set of rules on what mini-pig owners should think about, comply with and comply with How I see the possibility of distinguishing between farmed animals and pet animals in legislation and recommendations If I intend to initiate a review of the regulations so that mini-pigs in Sweden can be chipped in the same way as in Finland. In March, the Government submitted the New Animal Welfare Act to the Riksdag. With the proposal, the Government has taken a holistic approach to a new updated and modernised Animal Welfare Act. The new law aims to ensure good animal welfare and promote good animal welfare and respect for all animals kept by man. The Animal Welfare Act contains all provisions that are of fundamental importance for good animal welfare. The Animal Welfare Regulation and the Swedish National Agricultural Agency's regulations contain more concrete and detailed provisions that complement the Act. Provisions on how mini-pigs should be kept and managed are contained in the regulations and general guidelines of the National Board of Agriculture on conditions for keeping, rearing and selling, etc. of animals intended for companionship and hobbies. The regulations are often referred to as L 80. The National Board of Agriculture is independent in relation to the government in the concrete work on regulations. The Authority continuously reviews and updates its regulations as necessary. I trust the Board of Agriculture's assessment and see no reason to question the agency's work. All keepers who have one or more pigs must report this to the Swedish Board of Agriculture in order to be assigned a place of production number. For keepers who only keep mini-pigs, the Swedish Agriculture Agency has introduced simplifications, for example when it comes to notification of the place of production. If an infectious animal disease breaks out, it is important to be able to track pigs. It is therefore of the utmost importance that all pigs, both kept for company and kept for production, are labelled. The labelling of pigs and mini-pigs is regulated by the Council Directive on the identification and registration of pigs and is incorporated into the State's regulations on the labelling and registration of pigs. The Directive states that pigs must be labelled as soon as possible, but at the latest before leaving the holding where they were born. The marking shall consist of either a tattoo or an ear tag. Chip marking is not an official marking method for pigs in Sweden. If a keeper wishes to label his mini-pigs with a chip in addition to the official label, there is nothing in the legislation to prevent this.
i-BpP7TrYxRx2XwM2RSEeqat	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We throw ourselves between what may seem to be big questions and what may seem to be small questions – but everything touches someone. I myself fell into pigs when I had a dog and had children who were allergic to dogs. I had to give the dog away. When I'd whined enough at home that I didn't have any animals-- I've always had animals-- I sizzled that pig could have; no one is well allergic to pig, and the husband said I'd get one at the time; so I did it. But before I got a pig, I did something I discovered to do, namely research. I went around and looked at how it works, how they look out, how big they are and controlled breeders. Unfortunately, it's not very common. The usual is that people see a cute little pig carried around in a bag and think that's what they're going to look like. It's a bit like thinking that a baby will be 47 centimeters long even when it's 18. Pigs grow. What we learned at home is not to leave anything at pig's height because it is eaten. It's all food. We learned that it means, among other things, that having nice at home and having light standing up is hopeless. Stearin candles are among the best things there is. Book eaters are pigs definitely. The first time they had eaten was the Riksdag & Department. I don't know if that's why they chose to close the paper. We also have locks on the fridge because it disappeared beer and pizza. The pigs thrive best on the couch, they like to be scratched on the stomach and they love plastic bags. But what exactly is a mini-pig? That is what the question is about. There is no breed or breed standard. It is estimated that everything under 80 kilos, which they are about five years old, is mini-pig. That's exactly why teacups and micropigs don't exist. They're little baby pigs who should stay with Mom. When I see a picture where someone carries a pig around, I sincerely hope that the person carrying the pig has hearing protectors; pigs scream when you lift them. My pigs weigh about 50 kilos. When it's apple season, they weigh about 60. A slaughter pig weighs about 300 kilos. There are several problems that the pig can cause, in addition to eating things. It's about the pig not being a pet but a pig. They're cloven-hoofed cattle. I think it is good that they are registered so that diseases can be traced. Yet they are not separated from the farmed animals. I don't have to report if I have a pig or 500. I can promise that the neighbors will wonder if I will have one or 500 pigs. It is also a bit different how municipalities deal with the issue, i.e. whether you need a permit or not to keep animals in a densely populated area. In the case of chickens, there is a regulation of how many you may have, that you must not have a rooster and so on. It would be easier if the same rules were in place for pigs, if only when moving, for example, or if a new administrator discovers that there is a pig. You may have had an oral agreement, and all of a sudden you can no longer have a pig. In Finland, Denmark and Spain you can chip the pigs in the ear. It's pointless to chip a pig and have a piece of plastic in your ear. The problem with the piece of plastic in the ear is that it is partly big for the pig's little ear, partly it is not cozy to have on the couch. I would like the labelling to be revised so that it can be done just as in Denmark and Finland. Then there is the regulatory framework for pet animals. We're separating rabbits. They are both farmed animals and the cute ones that are kept in cages and given to the children. If these rules do not exist, does that mean that we can have a slaughter pig of 300 kilos in the kitchen? I hope no one's really that stupid. But it would be good if we could define what is actually a pet and what is a farmed animal.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-67	Mr President, I would like to Current animal welfare legislation has a great many years on its back. It's about 30 years old. I am very pleased that we have now been able to present new, modernised and updated animal welfare legislation. It has been a very extensive work and a great commitment from the whole of society, I would say. The initial provision of this legislation – the portal clause – is about ensuring good animal welfare and promoting good animal welfare and respect for animals. That's the main objective. Then let us remember that the Animal Welfare Act is a framework law. It sets this framework and will be supplemented later – first of course with a regulation, then also with detailed regulations that the Swedish Board of Agriculture works with and lays down. As far as the regulations are concerned, the Swedish Board of Agriculture distinguishes between farmed animals and pet animals, even in the case of pigs. Mini-pigs should be handled and kept according to the regulations I mentioned in my reply, L 80. There are various detailed provisions here which I do not intend to go into. Production animals in agriculture have regulations called L 106, which are also very detailed in their form and which I do not go into. But I have great confidence that the Swedish Board of Agriculture as an authority handles the regulation work correctly and well and that they adhere to the regulations and laws that exist.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-70	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I agree. I also trust the Swedish Board of Agriculture very much, which I think is doing a very good job. Like I said, you've been looking at this mini-pig thing. Nevertheless, there are things that I think are especially discovered by those of us who have mini-pigs but who may not everyone else is thinking about. Something that we've experienced in the little mini-pig community-- there may be about a thousand pigs around-- is that people think the pigs they're getting will continue to be small. People think mini-pigs are about the size of a loaf and are very surprised when they grow up. What happens is that the pigs are relocated or just disappear. There are very many mini-pigs online that are babies, cults, about a year, but there are very few adult pigs. Just that they get to graze is something that people are totally destroyed over, or that you're supposed to look like the hooves. It's also something people can't. How do you work the hooves on a pig? Cutting the claws of a dog may be so lumpy, but to appear the hooves of a pig is almost hopeless if you don't know what to do. On the one hand, the pig can get injuries, and on the other hand, you get injuries if you try to hold it yourself and don't know what you're doing. This is linked to the question of the veterinarians. The district vets are great at the production animals. But they don't really know what it's like to have a pet pig. You need to handle a nervous mini-pig owner in a completely different way from what is the case when you get to the farm animals. We are convinced that everyone is after our animals and will hurt them, and we believe that the animals are very sad all the time. In addition, one of these things is how much medicine they should have difficult even for the veterinarians. If you could instruct the Swedish Board of Agriculture to work for a system where you can talk to a veterinarian who specializes in a particular species of animal, it would make it easier for everyone. If it is urgent, you turn to the nearest veterinarian, but there could be a system where you could search and see: This one can parrots, this one is very good at horses, this one is very good at pigs. We can't all be experts on everything. Vaccines are also a problem. They're made for the farmed animals. It makes huge doses. When my poor little ones have theirs, we'll have to throw the rest away. Otherwise, you have to have a deal with someone nearby. This is the problem with the L 80. What is a minipig, in addition to the fact that it is said how much it should weigh? There's a pig that everyone should follow on Facebook and Instagram. Her name is Esther the Wonder Pig. Go find her! She's amazing. She was bought as a mini-pig but definitely wasn't. Now she weighs over 300 kilos. The owners live on a farm, and it works. But what if you have it in your apartment? Can you have a pig in an apartment? Are you allowed to have a pig, or are they supposed to be at least two? How many pigs do you get at home? On how big a space? How does it look in different municipalities? What's the deal with a move? What is the measure of accommodation? This is pretty fuzzyly written. You get to have a single pig if it has enough company from people. What does that mean? Can you leave the pig alone at home? You're definitely not allowed to have cattle alone. They're supposed to be accompanied by other species. Why not these pigs? How do we ensure that 3 ‐ kilo pigs do not suddenly appear or 500 ‐ kilo pigs in the kitchen on the fifth floor of someone's house? I would like these issues to be raised even more than we are doing here today in order to bring about a regulatory framework that protects the pigs and, of course, also the owners. There are very good breeders who take responsibility, but there are also those who really don't know. And unfortunately, there are far too many who find it fun to buy a mini-pig for someone for Christmas.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-77	Mr President, I would like to The veterinary issues were not included in the questions of the interpellation, but I would still like to mention that we have a district veterinary organisation. It has a background in the need for veterinary coverage throughout the country. Often the district veterinarians have a wide range of knowledge. Many of them focus on farm animals, but they also care for pets. Privately-practicing veterinarians are more located in the population-tight areas. There are also private veterinarians who claim to be specialists in various fields. I don't know if there's anyone who's put the label a specialist on mini-pigs, but maybe there's someone thinking about it. The issue of labelling animals and where we keep them is largely about tracking infection. Therefore, there is also a requirement for all pigs to be labelled, whether they are production pigs or pet pigs. It's a matter of tracking this. There is a current infection which is extremely serious, namely African swine fever, which is already present in our neighbouring countries. This is a very serious disease, and it is important that we have control of where pigs are and that they are marked. The Council Directive on registers for the identification of these pigs provides for a pig tattoo or ear tag. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has interpreted it as including mini-pigs in this and has this regulatory framework in that way. But as I mentioned, it's not forbidden to chip them if you want to. Then the Swedish Board of Agriculture has made simplifications for keeping mini-pigs compared to production pigs. This concerns the notification of the place of production but also the movement of the pig. The interpeller wants this in more detail. However, there are risks of too much detail. But that is one thing on which I, as a minister, should not go into or have any point of view at all. I have the greatest confidence that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is handling this properly, responsibly and well in relation to legislation and regulations.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-81	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government. As I said, I agree. I think the Board of Agriculture is really doing the best you can. In most cases, the district vets are great. Then they are often quite surprised when you come in with the pigs. I am fully aware that the Government will not go in and govern this, but I nevertheless hope that this debate will sow some seeds for future reviews of regulations and legislation. Above all, I hope the Board of Agriculture will listen and look at this. As I said, there are other special legislations that make things easier. The rabbits are one example, the chickens are another. It also makes it easier for the municipalities when someone comes and wants some of these animals. We can compare, for example, with exotic animals that I would find it very much more unpleasant to be next door to than a pig. In fact, it is easier to both buy and get permits for – if you even need permission. I haven't met anyone who has pigs who don't think they should be marked. That's how they're supposed to be marked the issue is all about. I think it could be easier if we just needed to have the chipping, just like in our neighbouring countries Denmark and Finland. In addition, Spain has a pet passport. I think it would be fun if more people could have the pleasure of having all their plastic bags dragged around the house, getting their candles eaten and tripping over pigs on the stairs. But for it to work, there also needs to be a regulatory framework that protects the animals. I'd like to get rid of all the angry nasser and get more happy pigs. That is why we need to look at this more.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-86	Mr President, I would like to What is important in this debate is that we keep these things separate. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is completely independent of the government in terms of regulations. It is important to have respect for this, and I have this full respect. You keep reviewing the regulations. Perhaps someone from the Swedish Board of Agriculture is following this debate, so maybe some seed is being sown– I don't know. Nevertheless, I trust their assessments of the regulatory work and see no reason to question this. To conclude, Mr President, we must remember that both large and small pigs can suffer from infection and serious animal diseases. That is why registration is important. It is important that we have this so that the pigs can be happy. Healthy pigs are happy! All animals shall be subject to good animal welfare regardless of whether they are kept for production or as a companion.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-89	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson has asked me the following.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-91	The government has made it clear that we want to see viable fishing along the Swedish coasts. Rejuvenation in fisheries is an important issue in this context. A prerequisite for granting more fishermen licences is that there is a biological space. Regulation No 1380/ 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the Common Fisheries Policy requires the use of living marine biological resources to be carried out in such a way that the populations of harvested species are restored and preserved above levels that can produce MSY, i.e. maximum sustainable yield. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has been commissioned by the Government to explain how they take small-scale coastal fishing into account in their decisions. I will continue to promote long-term viable coastal fishing on long-term sustainable fish stocks and therefore do not intend to propose any changes to the review process by the authorities. The Government's task is to regulate and manage fisheries and to allocate fishing opportunities in accordance with the common fisheries policy's regulations, while the National Agriculture Agency has been given the task of promoting and developing blue industries. These two authorities have jointly developed the Swedish Professional Fishing 2020 strategy – sustainable fishing and healthy food. I welcome this government initiative, which aims to address the challenges facing coastal fishing. The Government is closely following the development of this government strategy. The effects of climate change and eutrophication have a serious impact on the environment in the Baltic Sea. Therefore, the Government has carried out a significant investment in clean seas that was presented in the 2018 Budget Bill and that has been decided by the Riksdag. The majority of the initiative is aimed at measures that have a direct or indirect positive effect on the archipelago species. I am aware of the effects of seals on the fishing industry. Through the funds set aside by the government for gear development, several seal-proof gears have also been developed, such as cod cages. In 2018, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management may also use funds for the continued development of selective and gentle tools in collaboration with the fishing industry and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. Fishermen may receive support for investments in these fishing gears through the Maritime and Fisheries Programme and continue to receive some compensation for the resulting damage caused by seals. In December last year, several authorities and organisations participated in a round table discussion on seals following an invitation from the Ministry of Industry. There was a joint discussion on opportunities and challenges with the viable populations of the seal and on how the seal can be managed in a sustainable way. During the preparation, new studies from Sweden's University of Agricultural Sciences have also emerged about the interaction between seal and man. The Government Office is considering how the views expressed during the discussion can be dealt with together with the new results. A prerequisite for living archipelago fishing is sustainable stocks. I will therefore continue to promote long-term sustainable fishing that benefits our industry and coastal communities and offers healthy food both to us and to future generations.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-98	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. I visited Karlskrona a while ago and was then able to meet fishermen and officials from the county administrative board. It was very interesting to meet these people. Especially for me, who is a real land crab, it was very interesting to listen to the fish and the other people there. They highlighted a number of concerns that I would like to mean are acute for the entire coastal fisheries. A major concern highlighted was the attitude of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. Unfortunately, there are many examples of the authority refusing permission for young people who have bought a boat and want to fish. They feel that it doesn't matter what they say – it always becomes no. It seems that the Authority does not want new fishermen and that it wants those fishing today to stop fishing. It will be very strange, because without fishermen fishing all year round we have no living archipelago. The archipelago should be a home environment for people who live and work in this environment. It must not be reduced to an attraction that starts during the summer and is closed for the rest of the year. The acute concern is that there are so few fishermen left on the coast. I am pleased that the Minister replies that the Government has instructed the Authority to explain how it takes account of small-scale coastal fishing in its decisions. That's good. It also sounds good that the Minister wants to promote long-term viable coastal fishing. But the sad thing is that the Minister does not want to take any action. Do not the government and the minister see how few fishermen are left and how few are approved?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-104	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the interpellation! That is an important issue. Living archipelagos are my priority. It is about rural development in archipelago environments. I share Magnus Oscarsson's concerns. The archipelago has many challenges. It is about having long-term sustainable fishing on many different species. It is about employment and jobs, of course, which is extremely important and central to a vibrant archipelago and a vibrant countryside. An important prerequisite for getting more young fishermen is good and viable fish stocks. Without good and viable fish stocks, there will be no more young fishermen. The Fisheries Act regulates how fishing licences may be granted. Access to fish shall be taken into account. I'm sure we all want to see more young people get a license. I want that too, just like Magnus Oscarsson. But it is very important that we have responsible management of this. I have confidence in the authority's way of dealing with it until I hear something else. Then there are many different factors that affect the harvesting of fish. We have climate change affecting fish stocks. Eutrophication has serious consequences for the environment in the archipelago. This is why the Government has carried out a significant investment in clean seas, which was presented in the 2018 Budget Bill and which the Riksdag has also decided on. The majority of the initiatives are aimed at measures that have a positive impact on fish stocks directly or in the long term. Then I am aware that the development of seal strains and cormorants creates competition and poses special challenges for coastal fishing. We have therefore also been in round tables on these issues. The availability of attractive fish stocks is thus a complex issue. It's not just seals and cormorants that affect it. There is another factor affecting it, and that is the market prices of fish. There are some species of fish that have very low market prices, which means that there is low demand, which also affects profitability. An example of this is Baltic herring. Restoration of coastal fish stocks and their habitat are likely to take time, but I think it is important that we have a holistic approach when we work on these issues and take action in all the areas I have touched upon here.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You just got into what I was going to bring up. There are worries, absolutely. There are smaller fish, and there are problems in different ways in the environment. Absolutely. But let us not forget that there is a huge concern that I highlighted in my interpellation, namely the grey seal strain. It's growing very fast right now. It is estimated that there are about 50,000 animals. The stock grows by 5 – 7 percent annually. There are a lot of seals, and a seal not only eats a small herring, but eats quite a lot. There's one of the big concerns. But not only the seal but also the cormorants eat lots of fish. Not least, it eats eel, which is a highly threatened species at present. A prerequisite for a living archipelago is that there are fishermen who fish even in winter. As is well known, Sälen is causing damage to professional fishing in the form of competition for the catching and destruction of fishing gear. Recently, we have also found that the seal is spreading parasites in the fish. In the answer to my written question at the beginning of the year, the Government said that in December 2017 the Government had round table discussions about seals with several authorities and organisations. The Government Office then considered how the views expressed during the conversation would be handled. It is urgent that measures be taken to ensure the sustainable management of the seal stock. I asked a question in December about what the government was going to do then, and I got the answer I just told you about. Since then, many months have passed: January, February, March, April, May, and now it is almost June. Then my question is: what has happened during this time? How do you see the future, and what action do you intend to take, Minister, to overcome the great problem with the seal?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-116	Mr President, I would like to The conditions for all entrepreneurship are good profitability. This is also true of fishermen. Good profitability cannot be achieved if there is no raw material available, in this case fish. It is extremely important that there is access to catch and that a good selling price can also be obtained. In my previous speech, I mentioned that there are problems in this area. Unfortunately, the price is often very low, which means that you cannot get a good profitability. What did the government do? We have commissioned the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to promote fishing and aquaculture. The authorities have also developed a common strategy for fishermen to develop fisheries and also work on issues to improve profitability. The authorities cooperate with the industry to strengthen competitiveness and increase consumer demand for fish from sustainable stocks. They also work to improve marketing. The authorities are also working to improve the recovery of our fish stocks. I mentioned the effort we are making to improve the marine environment, not least in the Baltic Sea. It's necessary. It's a huge bet. It is about 600 million in the 2018 budget that the Riksdag has also decided on. There are many parts to that bet. It's about getting to grips with eutrophication, drug purification, clean-up of environmental toxins – including measures to clean up leaking wrecks, of which there's a lot – and measures to reduce the presence of plastic, also so-called ghosts. These efforts are the result of studies showing that certain archipelago species are seriously affected by this type of disturbance. I hope that these extensive efforts on cleaner seas will have a positive effect on the habitat of archipelago fishing. There are also ongoing projects to restore play and upbringing places. I'm not a landcrat, as Mr Oscarsson said he is. J ag lives by a river and sees the restorations taking place in the watercourses. This is also done with funding from the authorities. Professional fishing also has access to the aids under the maritime and fisheries programmes for various parts. This work follows the government and I very closely. We care about a vibrant archipelago and good rural development also in the coastal areas.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I got an interesting report from Blekinge. Although the coast is of course more than just Blekinge, it is a famous coastal and fishing county. In Blekinge there are approximately 76 fishermen with a license from 1 January. The most serious of this is that the share of younger fishermen is very small. Licence holders have largely reached retirement age, and new fishermen have not been admitted. When I was down there, I experienced many cries for help. They see that fishing is disappearing completely from Blekinge. I'm talking about Blekinge, but I know it's all about the coast up to Östergötland. I belong to fishermen in my county who have incredible worries. In Blekinge, it was about the attitude of the authorities. There must be a difference here. But it is also about the seal, and we must realise that they eat huge quantities of fish. The Minister himself admits in his reply that he sees the concerns. I really wish you, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, to get to grips with this properly and that you see and understand. Just call someone in Blekinge or at some coastline, or go down and listen to them yourself. I did not just tell them that it was boring, but we concluded that if nothing is done from this House soon, there will be no coastal fishing left. There is in itself a little in the summer. But a living coast means that there are also fishermen who fish all year round. Thank you for the debate.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-127	Mr President, I would like to A viable archipelago fishing is based on the fact that we have sustainable and sustainable fish stocks along our coasts and in our seas. I will continue to work towards achieving the objective of both biologically and socio-economically sustainable fisheries. I also hope that the comprehensive commitment made by the government to cleaner seas will have an impact and a positive effect also on fishing along our coasts and in our seas. All the measures taken are good for fish stocks in the Baltic Sea, either directly or indirectly. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that the continuation of viable fishing in the archipelago is a priority for me and the government. Let me therefore reiterate the basic position of the government on a long-term sustainable stock. It's all about taking a holistic approach. It's about the environment. It is about ensuring that we have limitations when we have non-sustainable species. It is also about – note it – getting better management also of seals and cormorants. It is a holistic approach that needs to be taken in this respect in order for us to develop fishing and for more younger fishermen to be able to join this industry and develop the archipelago and rural areas of these coastal communities. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to debate this important issue.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-132	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether I intend to take measures to give the important sheep husbandry in Sweden and in Mälardalen the conditions for development and growth, whether I intend to take any measures so that the conditions for sheep husbandry, without serious interference from predators, can be improved and whether I intend to take any initiatives in the light of the different county administrative boards making different assessments in the field of protection hunting, for example in the case of fences that contain animals and that keep out wolves. Sten Bergheden has asked me how the government intends to meet the food strategy's objective of increasing food production when farmers stop their activities due to attacks by wolves.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-135	My role as Minister for Rural Development often involves balancing target conflicts, such as in this case between the food strategy's objective of increased food production and the importance of biodiversity in pastures towards the achievement and maintenance of favourable conservation status by predators. I know that a sheep farm has recently announced its intention to close down its activities as a result of recent wolf attacks. The business of the headquarters, from rearing and production to farm sales, has given consumers access to locally produced organic food. One of the objectives of the strategic areas of the Government's Food Strategy is that consumers should have a high level of confidence in food and be able to make informed and sustainable choices, for example by locally produced and organically. Pruning animals are needed for biodiversity, so that meadows and pastures do not grow again. The government has made investments in the budget for these unique habitats, with the hope that more grazing animals will contribute to Swedish food production. This in turn creates jobs in rural areas. The closure of agricultural activities is therefore something that I, as Minister for Rural Development, deeply regret. The overall objective of predator policy is to ensure that predators have a favourable conservation status, while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. The policy should take into account people living and operating in the areas where predators are located. Sweden needs sustainable food production to meet environmental objectives regarding biodiversity, diverse agricultural landscapes and valuable cultural environments. During its term of office, the Government has taken a series of measures to bring order to predatory policy and to improve the situation of domestic operators. It is hoped that these measures will reduce the contradictions between these important interests. The grant for the costs of predator damage and for measures to prevent attacks, such as fences, has been increased by about 40 per cent during the term of office to more than SEK 52 million for 2018. The Government has also introduced a new regulation to allow for easier and better use of the allocated funds, in accordance with Union rules on state aid. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall national responsibility for implementing the decided predatory policy. The authority has delegated the right to decide on the hunting of wolves to the county administrative boards where wolves occur. It is important that these decisions are taken regionally, with knowledge of their local conditions, and protection hunting is an important part of predator management. Local influence is needed for anchoring and credibility in the administration, for example within the administrative delegations. There is the possibility of consultation and effective influence in the processes of the authorities. The government hosts the role of delegations and has recently strengthened local influence by expanding delegations with two representatives of different local interests. The government has introduced a requirement for urgency in county administrative matters concerning the hunting of predators and also that these decisions are now to be appealed to the Administrative Court of Luleå, which has been made a special court in these cases. The urgency requirement also applies to judicial review. These changes were implemented in order to achieve a rapid, effective and equivalent decision-making process for the hunting of predators. On the other hand, the Government cannot comment on the judgments of county boards or courts in individual cases. In order to reduce conflicts between domestic animal husbandry and the presence of predators, measures may need to be taken to prevent damage. Protection hunting on wolf is a last resort when there are no other suitable solutions. Among other things, it may be that the keeper of domestic animals may need to take damage prevention measures such as protecting their domestic animals with predatory fences around the pastures. As I have said, the government has increased the appropriations for these measures, precisely in order to enable and facilitate the adoption of such measures by individuals. People are supposed to be able to live and run industries where the predators are. A viable and active rural area is needed for sustainable development and growth throughout the country.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-145	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. That's a long answer. It is usually the Environmental Party's responsible minister who answers interpellations on wolf issues. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Minister is here today to take the discussion. We have recently adopted a food strategy in the Swedish parliament. The agreement means that we will increase Swedish food production, that is, we will produce more food and increase animal husbandry in Sweden. Sweden today has a low level of self-sufficiency and cannot withstand a barrier when it comes to food and supplies for a long time before they run out. Sweden must increase the production of food to cope with a crisis and to create new jobs and growth in Sweden, including in rural areas. We need more grazing animals – for food, jobs and biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to Because of high taxes and regulations, Sweden's farmers have a more difficult competitive situation than their colleagues in Europe. Sweden also has a large wolf strain that limits the possibilities of increasing animal production in some parts of the country. Many refrain from starting animal production; others are forced to stop as they are no longer able to cope with these wolf attacks. Mr President, I would like to Sweden can produce much more food, which would create jobs and growth throughout the country. Only about 30 percent of our sheep meat is produced in Sweden. But instead of encouraging, promoting and helping more sheep producers – and thus creating more Swedish sheep meat, more jobs and growth – this government is investing in increasing the wolf population. Sweden really needs a new government that takes advantage of rural opportunities. Molstaberg, between Gnesta and Mölnbo, has recently suffered another tragedy, as 50 - 70 sheep were affected. This has meant that the owners are no longer able to cope and are prepared to give up their animal production. Molstaberg has suffered a total of 13 wolf attacks and lost more than 160 sheep in the last three years. Despite this, the County Administrative Board does not even allow a hunt for protection on the wolf. It is even considered that it is the animal owner's fault. The county administrative board, which is the state's extended arm, protects the wolf in front of the sheep and the animal owner. Mr President, I would like to Molstaberg has had animal production for over 40 years and today has about 1,200 sheep. The sheep graze in several large pastures and in forested and mountainous areas. Wolf fences are expensive and devastating as well as time consuming to set up. In his reply, the Minister will certainly say that he cannot speak on individual cases and thus try to refrain from answering my questions. But the truth is this, Mr President: it is the Social Democratic Government and the Minister who have the ultimate responsibility for the current laws that the County Administrative Board is now working on. My first question is this: is the Minister prepared to review these laws in order to further clarify the importance of the possibility of a protection hunt? The Government controls both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board and is able to regulate the direction of these authorities through regulations, budgets and appointments of Directors-General and County Governors. My second question is this: does the Minister intend to take any measures via regulatory letters or budget to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board to further strengthen the owners of animals in the event of a wolf attack? Mr President, I would like to Has the Minister continued to trust the County Administrative Board's actions in relation to Molstaberg? And what does the Minister intend to do to comply with Parliament's decision of 170 – 270 wolves?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-158	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I would like to say hello to my county colleague, Staffan Danielsson. Unfortunately, he was unable to take part in the debate, but he told the Minister that he would return. In recent decades the wolf tribe in Sweden has grown strongly; the wolf is now widespread throughout Central Sweden. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2013 on a comprehensive predator policy. The decision meant, among other things, that Sweden should achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predatory strains, while keeping domestic animals at home should not be made more difficult and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. The rapid growth of the wolf population has brought great trials to domestic breeders. Wolf attacks often have major consequences for the individual trader. We have all heard of the sheep farm Molstaberg outside Södertälje, which recently suffered another wolf attack. The farm Molstaberg has breeding, production and farm sales of sheep products. But now the owners have had enough. They're going to shut down because of recurring wolf attacks. The reason for the decision is that domestic animal husbandry is made more difficult. Parliament's decision was that domestic animal husbandry should not be made more difficult and that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. How, then, can it be that authorities do not do what the Riksdag decides?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-166	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate every opportunity to debate important issues such as rural development, food production and domestic animal husbandry, which this debate is about. As a minister, as I said, I cannot go into individual matters, but I would like to say that I regret what happened at Molstaberg. When you listen to the members Oscarsson and Bergheden you are almost reminded of the story Rödluvan and the wolf. It sounds to Members like there is so much wolf everywhere in our country, but that is not the case. Today, according to the latest bill, we have 355 wolves. The year before, we had 415 wolves. The wolf population has declined during this term of office. Nor is it any wonder that there were very many wolves when we started the term of office. In the last four years of the Alliance government, 22 wolves are being shot, while 98 wolves have been shot during this term of office, under the current government. Do not thump blue in the eyes of those who listen to this debate! These are facts; there is evidence. We need rural development. Rural areas have been neglected for a long time. It is important to approach this type of question with great humility. There was no order in the predator hunt when this government took office – definitely not. This has hindered rural development, even today. This government believes in Swedish rural areas, and we want to see growing food production throughout the country. That is why we presented a national food strategy, which I am pleased that Parliament was able to adopt in broad political agreement. We have an unbeatable agriculture in Sweden. It is completely outstanding, given our food safety, our environmental thinking and our low use of antibiotics. This, of course, also means that we can produce more food. I was recently on a promotion trip in China with Swedish food companies. There they called for Swedish food because we maintain such a high level of food safety and so on. The added value that we have in Sweden must be used much more than we have done. In this way, we can also produce more when we increase our efforts. We are starting 1 billion in measures to increase food production. This is linked to the national food strategy. It is therefore a matter of 1 billion – 1 000 million – which is in place for various measures. When it comes to limiting predator damage, we have increased the grant by nearly 40 percent, to SEK 52 million. It is clear that this too has an effect. We have made sure that there are financial means available both to fence and to replace those affected. It is important that we see the whole of this.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-175	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. It is clear that the Minister is very pleased with the situation and that the wolves do not pose a great risk, according to the Minister, given that we only have 355 wolves according to the last bill. That's the latest bill, yes. We have decided in Parliament on 170 – 270 wolves. That is to say, we have about twice as many as the Riksdag has decided. The wolf tribe is concentrated mainly in Central Sweden. It is not spread all over Sweden. In this way, there will be an enormous concentration in that part, which is most affected by the wolf attacks. Mr President, I would like to This is a burden on animal husbandry, hunting and the countryside. The situation in these areas is totally unreasonable. In the rest of Europe the wolf is common, but there the wolf is hunted. You take away individuals who go after domestication. This makes the wolf shyer. There is no discussion at all here in Sweden. Here in Sweden it is politicians and people who live in the big cities that are mostly loudest and want to increase the wolf tribe. The wolf tribe should of course be kept at a level that the countryside can accept. Today we have too many wolves, and the countryside has to pay the price for this. Raising sheep or other domestic animals and then having it all destroyed by wolves is not acceptable. On a daily basis, people hear of animals killed, animals injured, animals thrown away, and animals not pregnant because of previous wolf attacks. This is the everyday life of people who struggle and toil with their animals, while society benefits an increased wolf trunk. The wolf tribe is too big today, and we cannot fence all our pastures with fences that are both extremely expensive and completely unreasonable in the landscape. Instead, we must take the problem seriously and keep the wolf tribe at a reasonable level for all, that is 170 – 270 wolves – not 355 wolves. This means that today's wolf strain must be reduced, Mr President. Sweden's animal producers compete with foreign food. If we then have unduly high costs for our animal production due to taxes, expensive fences and expensive regulations, we will not be able to increase food production in Sweden, which has been supported by a united parliament. It is clear that the Minister thinks that wolf policy is more important than food production in this country. The Swedish Sheep Breeding Association has clearly stated that sheep production can be increased, but action is needed. Is the minister going to listen to the pet owners? Does the Minister intend to listen to the LRF and their demands regarding the wolf tribe? Does the Minister think that the wolf tribe today is at a reasonable level? The Minister indicated it in his reply. Are 355 wolves a reasonable level when we want 170 - 270 wolves? If the Minister does not consider this to be a reasonable level, what does the Minister intend to do to reach a wolf tribe of 170 – 270 wolves? The animal owner must legally keep his animals within fences so that they do not come out and destroy for others. When the wolf enters the pasture, is the animal owner responsible for this? Is this reasonable? That's my first question. Is the Minister prepared to review the laws and regulations that the County Administrative Board claims exist so that the wolf tribe ends up at a more reasonable level? The county administrative board, which is the extended arm of the government and the state, believes that it is the animal owner's responsibility to keep the wolves out. Is that reasonable, Minister?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-188	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! First of all, I can absolutely agree that everything was not better during our eight years in power. But now it is, and now the government is social democratic and environmental. Then I mean that responsibility for this must still be placed on you as the responsible minister. During the wolf attack on the farm, at least 80 sheep were killed and wounded, and we have heard Sten Bergheden say that a total of 160 sheep have been killed on this farm. As an old farmer, it hurts terribly to see pictures of fallen and dead animals or to see how the sheep lie and gasp. It's terrible! I think about when you as a farmer go out in the morning or evening twig and only see hordes lying there, sheep after sheep. Not only are we talking about the farmer's economy here, but we are also talking about the farmer's soul and the willingness to take care of and help and support his animals in various ways. Then the wolf or wolves, in this case in Molstaberg, come and kill the sheep. I think it's terrible. I wonder if the Minister himself thought about how this poor farmer must have felt. Now this farmer is not alone, but there are several who have been affected in the same way. The Minister says we're exporting for 1 billion. I think it's great and I hope we double our exports. But it doesn't help that we talk about exporting and should be so good when the farmer goes out on his land and meadows and sees that there lies sheep after sheep that have been killed by the wolf. Then we can't say no, but there's nothing we can do. It's what it is. I would like us to have a more concrete answer here today. The Parliament has decided that there should be a tribe of about 270 wolves. Now we were told that, after the last count, there are 355, that is, a few more than we decided in this House. My question is whether the government intends to follow what we have decided, which I believe your party was also involved in deciding when you were in opposition, that there should be about 270 wolves, not 355 as you said.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-195	Mr President, I would like to We'll get the results of a new bill presented within a few weeks. The inventory is carried out annually. It was the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that, due to a very high inbreeding, reached 300 wolves when it comes to favourable conservation status. Once again, I do not have the authority to assess at all whether it was right or wrong not to grant protection hunting on Molstaberg. I can't take a stand on individual cases. I myself have been a sheep-owner for many years and know how it is, and I suffer just as much as the farmer who gets attacked. I've seen that before. It's terrible when that happens. Nothing else can be said about this. The government's ambition has always been to bring order to predator management since we took office. It must be sustainable and effective, and it must be handled closely and not, as Sten Bergheden advocates, centralised. In fact, I see Bergheden's speech as wanting centralisation, that we should decide here in Stockholm what it should look like in the country. No, this is going down at the regional level. That is why I want the Administrative Delegation to have an influence on this. I believe in that model – as close as possible. When we took office as a government, Mr Sten Bergheden, there was total chaos in the predator hunt. Time and again the hunt for wolf was interrupted, and no hunt was made. We've set things straight. First, decisions must be taken one month earlier on the county administrative boards. Secondly, the decisions should not be handled by several courts, but by a court, the Administrative Court of Luleå, and the review should take place at the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall. We have taken responsibility for this. That is what makes it orderly and that today there is actually a licence hunt. During the four years of the alliance government, it was even worse, 3 wolves, while during our initial three years there were 83 wolves. Then you often stand here and accuse the government of not having taken responsibility. I think sometimes there may be reason to think about the mote and the beam in your own eye. Mr President, I would like to Green industries are needed for sustainable rural development. It is not just food production that is important. There are many different values that green industries add not only to the countryside but to the country as a whole. It is about cultural values, the importance of outdoor life and tourism and quality of life. It's the attractiveness of the countryside. At the same time, we should remember that this requires coexistence between the predators, the people and the activities that are there. We need to deal with this and improve it, and that is why the government has increased the appropriations considerably. We should be proud of the industries that exist in Swedish countryside, not least the green industries.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-206	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister believes that responsibility has only been delegated by the Government and the Minister to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards no longer has any responsibility. It's really strange because that's exactly what you have. It has a responsibility to follow up on this and ensure that the decisions taken in the Swedish Parliament are followed. Mr President, I would like to Blaming animal owners or fences is low when the government, the Minister, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards are unable to comply with Parliament's decisions of 170 – 270 wolves. Take responsibility and do something! Of course, wolves who attack domestic animals on this scale must be put to death. We cannot have a government that sits on its hands when rural conditions deteriorate day by day. Mr President, I would like to I haven't had any answers to my questions. Does the Minister intend to review the regulatory framework? I understand that the Minister cannot speak in individual cases, and I have therefore raised the question rhetorically as to whether he will review the regulatory framework if it will be applied in this way. Should the animal owner take full responsibility if a wolf comes in and he doesn't have enough fences? What does the Minister think is sending a signal to Sweden's farmers that they will have to answer if the wolf attacks? It is the government that has not managed to keep the wolf tribe at the level that Parliament has decided. The number of 170 to 270 wolves was for the whole of Sweden. Today the wolf is concentrated in Central Sweden. There we should have 170 wolves, but today v in 355 wolves. The government and the minister have failed in their work.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-212	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the debate. Sweden's pastures and meadows are growing again. In ten years, 20 percent has grown again, which is an enormous amount. We are used to seeing many beautiful meadows and pastures, for we always have. But now, unfortunately, they are growing again. They are leeched, bushed or afforested. The countryside is supposed to live, it's called so nice. But what does it really mean? It is so easy to sit in Stockholm and draw a line from an authority instead of seeing what it is about in concrete terms. Imagine the farmer's stress and fear of getting out on the bait and perhaps seeing his sheep torn down. The unilateral promotion of the wolf takes place at the expense of many other species. Plants, insects, birds and other animals depend on pasture land and may iron their feet if the soil is afforested. We decided in the Swedish Parliament that there should be 270 wolves. Today there are 355. The food strategy, which it was good that we adopted, must mean something to our authorities: Our hands and feet are the Queen's Sweden. They must understand that we have taken a decision on a food strategy and that it means that they will act on it.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-218	Mr President, I would like to It should be attractive to live and work in Swedish countryside. There is an important production of food and forest products. I agree with Mr Oscarsson that it may be easy to sit in Stockholm and make decisions. But I haven't. I have travelled to all rural municipalities in Sweden to see what reality looks like and take the impression of it. I therefore claim that I have a pretty good grasp of reality out there. Me and the government work for a Sweden that stays together. We have set aside 1.5 billion over the next two years for a coherent rural policy. We have a food strategy in place. In the coherent rural policy, we focus on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We have a multi-billion-dollar investment in broadband in Swedish rural areas. We have the investment in grocery stores in Swedish countryside. We have the initiative at the learning centre in the Swedish countryside. We are investing in regional export centres. We even have an investment in pot holes on the gravel roads in Swedish countryside. We have allocated 1 billion to the food strategy because, as Mr Oscarsson said, we want green meadows and pastures. Food strategy is a prerequisite for us to have it. As far as predators are concerned, we have called for urgent treatment in the courts. There is a great difference with the past when there was total disaster in this. We are about to be able to deal with this wisely and well. We see that the wolf tribe has actually decreased, and that's because we've got the hunt in order. Thank you for a good debate!
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-224	Mr President, I would like to Olof Lavesson has asked me if I support the statement by the CEO of the Film Institute and whether I can guarantee that filmmakers will continue to be able to apply for film support on equal terms, regardless of gender. On Sunday 13 May, the Swedish Film Institute on behalf of the government organized an international seminar, Take two : Next moves for # metoo, in Cannes. Anna Serner, CEO of the Film Institute, said in her speech that the positive trend in Sweden in the number of women applying for production support seems to give way and that 73 percent of the Swedish big budget films are still made by men. Against this background, Anna Serner stated that if the situation does not change, the Film Institute may consider whether all market support by 2020 should be allocated to women. The statement was not known to me before, and no formal proposal has been made to the Ministry of Culture. Like Anna Serner and the interpellant Olof Lavesson, however, I can see that the situation is not satisfactory. The Parliament has set targets for film policy on gender equality and decided on the funding that goes to support, among other things, film production. The Regulation on State Aid to Film lays down the framework for the grant of the Film Institute. The Government has determined in its policy decision to the Film Institute the direction of the activities and how to report back. What the support process should look like in detail is up to the Film Institute, fully in line with the principle of arm's length distance between politics and institutions in decisions on the artistic content. In addition, the Film Institute shall appoint expert advice to assist in the design of film policy support. Work to combat discrimination and promote equal rights and opportunities is an important issue for the government. Protection against discrimination in the Discrimination Act(2008:567) has been strengthened during the term of office. Among other things, the support to the Discrimination Ombudsman has been increased. The Act contains provisions prohibiting discrimination on grounds of sex, for example. The Ombudsman for Discrimination supervises compliance with the law. I have said it before, and I say it again: Support should be based on quality and competence. And when it comes to quotas, I prefer carrots to whips.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-231	Mr President, I would like to There were probably many of us who put coffee in our throats when we heard Anna Serner, CEO of the Swedish Film Institute, in the report from the film festival in Cannes, talk about gender equality in Swedish film and announce that if the industry does not reach 50 – 50 behind the camera even for the big budgets, the entire 2020 market support will be earmarked only for female filmmakers. This is a remarkable statement, partly because it is now apparently 50 – 50 which is the overall goal of Swedish film support, not quality and competence, as both the Minister for Culture and myself tend to argue, and partly because the tool you intend to use is to completely block one sex from access to public support. In my oblivion I thought this was a hasty statement, said in the affect due to a fully justified outrage that the work on gender equality has not progressed any further. But later the CEO developed his positions and also claimed that these were based on the guidelines decided by the Riksdag, which is incomprehensible. Denying access to public support based solely on gender is unacceptable. We have clear rules on film support. Production aid shall primarily be granted in advance on the basis of qualitative criteria and, secondly, after the film is finished based on success. The Minister for Culture here in this House tends to speak out warmly because the new film policy has created new arenas for consultation and influence, in particular through the new industry councils set up under the Film Institute. But this advice has not even been used here. Eva Hamilton, president of the film and television producers, states to Sweden's Television that the industry councils will act as an advisory contact between the Film Institute and the industry, but they have not been used on any essential issues, including this one. At the same time, she criticises how the Film Institute is increasingly clearly and strongly governing Swedish film policy and calls for a better dialogue. The proposal has also attracted criticism from other actors in the film industry, both male and female. One of our leading women directors calls the play a fun thought and says that a lot more needs to be done but says at the same time: and I don't think it should go to the stupidity it is now. It is almost embarrassing to say that you work in the film industry when there is a CEO at the Film Institute who says that you should block a whole gender in this way. ..................................................... And a renowned female scriptwriter says to Aftonbladet: I don't think you do that. If you're just going to choose women producers and screenwriters, it's unfair to the young men who come today. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to As I write in my interpellation, I share the ambition to get more women both behind and in front of the camera. The fact that women have the same conditions as men, that glass roofs are broken down and walls are broken down and that we are getting poor cultures out of the film industry is necessary. I have discussed and debated this since I entered Parliament almost twelve years ago. I also know that the Minister for Culture and I fully agree on that. But the important work for greater equality risks taking several steps back when this kind of nonsense is put forward as real threats. The Minister of Culture speaks of arm's length. I have to ask: should we interpret the Minister of Culture's answer as rejecting the Executive Director's threat? And how does she intend to act to ensure that it does not happen? The question I asked in my interpellation was: Can the Minister guarantee that filmmakers will continue to be able to apply for film support on equal terms, regardless of gender?
i-RQGFQm8wBngwTD6YeNVsLV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for your post! Just as Mrs Lavesson made it clear, I fully agree with the objectives adopted by Parliament and what we must do to fight for more people to have the opportunity to develop, not only in the film but throughout our society. As I made clear in my initial reply, we have a law of discrimination, and we are going to comply with the laws and rules of our country. There must be no discrimination based on gender, including – there are several grounds for discrimination. I absolutely disassociate myself from the threat. Threat is not a method that I have practiced through life, but I believe that we must use many more tools. But this requires that we want to. This requires, in this case, an active film policy in which we encourage, in various ways, more people to develop and that, with broader participation and free competition, we can achieve the best quality. This is a general theme for me, not just in the film industry. That's the hard way. It would have been easy just to say: It is forbidden, and we do not. The difficult thing is to find and identify skills and give people opportunities. This takes time. It also requires that we are purposeful in parliament and government, over a long period of time. What feels good about film policy, not least with regard to the objectives of the film policy adopted by Parliament, is that it is also based on the cinema policy implemented by previous governments and what was contained in the film agreement. We shall clearly strive for more people to have opportunities, and we shall strive for equality. We will use different tools and develop them. Therefore, the industry councils and discussions on the film policy adopted by the Riksdag were a major issue. As for the answer to the second question, what I am going to do, I need to follow up, just as we do with all the policies we put forward. It is clear how what the Film Institute, with arm's length, is assigned to do, should be reported. It is precisely follow-up and dialogue if it is one of the tools that the government has. We need to ensure that the industry councils work. This is absolutely fundamental, I think. The input that can come from good dialogues, especially all ideas that can emerge from them, can be absolutely crucial and have a major impact on how it should be ensured that competence and quality and nothing else governs what support – Sweden's taxpayers' money – should go to.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-248	Mr President, I would like to The problem is who does what. What lies in the government's responsibility, what lies in the Minister's responsibility and what lies in the Film Institute's responsibility? The Minister returns in this Chamber and in his reply to the fact that it is the Film Institute that is responsible for the detailed nature of the support process. But this is not about detail, it is about something completely different. It is about the Institute to act in accordance with what the Riksdag has established and what the Government has announced in decree. This has nothing to do with detail control. I think responsibility, control and arm's length are a recurring problem that is sometimes a complicated issue for the Minister for Culture and Democracy. She has no problem with interfering and reviewing the actions of the authorities when it comes to Kronofogden's decision to confiscate a horny who has been convicted as a blackout by both the County Administrative Board and the Land and Environmental Court. She avoids commenting on the consequences for Swedish literature policy when we see the Swedish Academy collapse, but she likes to put on a clench in social media. She directs investigation assignments to the National Museums of World Culture, but she refuses to take responsibility for the results when the investigation comes back and refers only back to the relevant authority. If you are constantly talking about arm's length, it is good to know where the shoulder and hand are. Sometimes the arms are short as little fingers, and sometimes it's like there's no arms at all. I find it worrying when the individual issue is hidden behind the authority or, as in this case, a foundation. This is about having an authority or foundation that goes out and threatens with something that is actively contrary to what the parliament and government have established. The CEO of the Swedish Film Institute tells SVT that the threat is in line with the goals of increased gender equality set by the Riksdag. Then I wonder if the Minister for Culture can explain where in Parliament's stated objectives it says that support should be allocated to one sex? Where has the Riksdag taken a stand for this, and where does the Government's decree say? When is it okay for an authority or, as in this case, for someone acting in the place of authority to exclude half the population from being able to apply for support? How does this reconcile with what is stated in the regulation on qualitative criteria? I hear the Minister say that carrots are preferred to whips, and I share that view. But I don't really know whether it's about the view on how authorities should act or whether it's about the view on their own governance of agencies. If that is what is meant by carrots and whips, we rather need a minister to point out the direction and then hold a rather tight grip even on the reins. I think that a much clearer position could be taken in this particular case. It has raised a lot of concern, and it has caused a lot of excitement. One wonders what the government intends to do to actually stop this. I do not know if the situation can also be due to the somewhat complicated relationship that exists between the government and the Swedish Film Institute when it comes to the institute as an organisational form. The Film Institute is not an authority, but a private law foundation acting on behalf of the government. When the new film policy has now been given an increasingly clear authority mandate, many of us have criticised it, and a majority in Parliament has decided that the government should review the future role and organisation of the Film Institute. So far, the government has faced this with a shoulder twitch. Does the Minister of Culture not think it is high time to deal with this? Isn't it time to finally act on Parliament's announcement? Is it not time to clarify what is actually the government's responsibility and what is the Film Institute's?
i-T6eeM1n5DvwYre6bfR15Rd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the continued discussion, Olof Lavesson! With regard to the film policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag, they are clear. This does not mean that we as ministers should enter the authorities and poke, think and think. This applies regardless of the objectives; the objectives of cultural policy are also extremely clear. I don't know where Olof Lavesson was during the course in political science when it came to Swedish politics and administration, but if it is something we should stay very far away from it is ministerial government. We only see on the other side of the Baltic Sea what happens when politicians and even government members go into institutions and decide what movies to do, how to do them and what bosses to have and not. I therefore believe that there should be a great margin between politics and artistic content. I've been holding on to that, and I'm going to keep doing that. Olof Lavesson mentioned some other examples that are still interesting and can be linked to the discussion we have even if they go a little from the subject. When I put on a beautiful blouse to remind myself that the fight for feminism and gender equality must go on everywhere, in all rooms and all the time it is about a big issue that drives me as a politician. That is not a particular or an individual position. At the same time, I have repeatedly, in every interview, defended the importance of the work the Swedish Academy has done for a very long time – but emphasised that, since it is an independent business, it is not my place to think and think about how to solve their big problems. The same is true of the horn, which is also another issue but which the interpellier raises. When I work with the Sami political challenges, it is a central issue or a central perspective that must always be present in that policy area, and that is to see it in a historical context. I've never interfered in an ongoing matter. However, it was the case that a case was opened after I had spoken about the importance of seeing the big picture. I will continue to do so. That's what we're supposed to do with politicians. We should have politicians who want something, who are driven by something and who want to fight for rights and opportunities – not politicians who dare not think anything when you can actually think and push questions. I am also in favour of a Sami policy that weighs up the words I say about the historical context. I believe that the Swedish state has a lot to do before it can say that it has fought for the rights of indigenous peoples. The honourable Member raised further issues that have nothing to do with it, but which can nevertheless be attributed to the issue we are here to discuss. It is really about whether one can discriminate on the basis of gender. Is a threat a tool for change? What will govern which funds – what of taxpayers' money – actually go to art? I think it is absolutely essential that we actually dare to draw on quality and competence and that we make demands on the institutions and authorities that distribute the subsidies that they can account for. That is how we govern, and that is how we must keep that control very carefully. How do we control this? How do we ensure that our authorities do what they are supposed to do based on the decisions that have been made in here? Well, we do it through annual reports. It may sound a bit dry and boring, but it is the tool we have: We do it through government dialogue. That's when we'll have to ask the hard questions. However, we do not do it by calling back as soon as we are dissatisfied with something or think that a film was bad. We don't, because then it's unfair influence. We do it when we can and when we should. If we see that we have not complied with the rules laid down here, we must take action.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-263	Mr President, I would like to I do not doubt the commitment of the Minister for Culture and the fact that the Minister for Culture is passionate about a large number of issues. So do I. I would just like that commitment to be more visible even when it is actually needed. When it comes to the examples the minister chooses: Yes, the Swedish Academy is an independent organisation, but it has such great power that when this independent organisation does not function it has serious consequences for the position of the entire Swedish literature. The same is true of the Swedish Film Institute. I am well aware that the Minister should not go in and like the design of individual grant criteria. Neither do I, any more than I would think about which films are to be supported or not. I think the Minister knows me so well that she knows that I would never have the chance to do that. On the other hand, I think that when the Riksdag makes decisions on objectives, I bear a responsibility for ensuring that the objectives are also complied with. Similarly, I assume that the Minister will assume responsibility for compliance with regulations. When an authority, or, as in this case, the director of a foundation, says that it intends to violate the regulations and regulations in its own head, I also expect the Minister to act – and react – as strongly as she does when she feels committed to other issues. At least I do. I think I have received some answers to my questions today. I am pleased that the Minister has clearly dissociated herself from the statement and that she does not share the view that this kind of threat should be put forward. I also note that it is not as clear on my second question, that is, whether the Minister can guarantee that filmmakers will continue to be able to apply for film support on equal terms regardless of gender. I would therefore like to hear the Minister say that this will also apply in the future. Otherwise, what we decide on here or what the government does at its meetings is not something that applies, but is open to interpretation. It is not a principle I think we should act on.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-267	Mr President, I would like to I really want to underline what Olof Lavesson says. I do so with the hope that Olof Lavesson, perhaps as future Minister of Culture – who knows – or as a colleague here in the Riksdag, will join me in fighting for this in the future. Unfortunately, in the times we live in, there are forces that want to limit, shield and point out who is going to do what. I want, and am convinced that Member of Parliament Lavesson shares the conviction that we will create a Sweden, a Europe and hopefully a world where we have the best conditions for everyone to work and be. I can therefore really endorse this: I will continue to do everything in my power to apply for film support on equal terms regardless of gender, gender identity, ethnic background and so on.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-269	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me how I intend to act in view of the effects of the increased amortisation requirement and the falling new production that we now see in the housing market. Household debt in Sweden is at a high level, both historically and compared to other countries. From an international perspective, Swedish mortgages have been paid out because they have been amortised to a small extent. This is a development which builds up risks and which may eventually be detrimental to macro-economic stability and, in the long run, also to financial stability in S verige. The risks of increasing indebtedness have for a long time been highlighted by both the Government and Finansinspektionen, the National Debt Office and the Riksbank – but also by international assessors such as the IMF and the EU. For several years the government has been working to curb this development. For example, Finansinspektionen introduced in 2016, with the approval of the Government, the first amortisation requirement and in spring 2018, a reinforced amortisation requirement for new mortgages over 4.5 times gross income. In order to further strengthen Finansinspektionen's ability to act against imbalances in the credit market, the Riksdag has decided by a large majority on the proposal Additional tools for macroprudential supervision. In addition, Finansinspektionen already introduced a mortgage cap of 85 per cent of the market value of the property in 2010 and has increased the banks' risk weight floor for mortgages in several instalments. Despite these measures, household debt continues to grow and, even after the recent fall in prices, house prices have risen by more than 30 per cent since 2014. The solution to the challenges of the housing market in such a situation cannot be to facilitate further indebtedness. However, housing construction would serve long-term stable rules of play. I would therefore like to see, in the future, broad cross-border arrangements for reforming the housing market in a way that ensures a supply of housing that meets demand without rolling over the risks to households through excessive credit or forced over-indebtedness, especially among young and new people on the housing market.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-273	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. The Government's answer to the questions about the consequences for individuals regarding the amortisation requirement is that he probably wants to make them even worse. That is at least the spirit I read in the answer, because there are no proposals on how to curb development. The answer to the problem of growing housing shortages and the fact that it is becoming increasingly difficult for individuals to find housing is that they intend to make it even worse for the individual and more difficult to get housing. This, in turn, means that the decline in housing construction that we are now seeing would worsen and lead to an even greater housing shortage. So what is difficult today for those who want to get a home should get worse. The lack of housing that is the main problem at rising prices of dwellings and villas will grow even more with a policy that makes it more difficult for those who want to get their own housing. To those who have acquired a home or who are about to do so, they say: You are having a hard time now, but we will make it even harder. And the lack of housing allows us to become more eager to make it more difficult for you to pay the cost of your accommodation. It is true that household debt has increased, and it is true that there is reason to be vigilant about this. However, this increase in debt should be assessed in the light of the major changes that have marked the Swedish housing market. A lot more people own their homes. Ownership has been transferred from municipalities and private companies, and the debt has been transferred so that individuals finance it through their own loans. These loans, unlike many private loans, correspond to stable ownership. Private individuals' housing loans are the most credit-secured loans, including against this background, but also in view of the fact that private individuals prioritise ownership of their home. The housing crisis in the late 1980s and early 1990s was characterised by problems in municipal and private housing companies but not by privately owned housing. The possibility of lending to one's dwelling is crucial for the construction of new dwellings, and this applies to both residential units and villas. This means that the more difficult the government makes it for private individuals to own housing, the more the part of the Swedish housing market that works is eroded. When it becomes harder to borrow, it becomes harder to build. It will also be more difficult to sell and buy, and it will be more difficult for new groups to enter the housing market. Together with the removal tax, amortisation requirements have led to reduced mobility in the housing market in addition to reduced construction. Is the Government really satisfied with this policy? Is this what you wanted: reduced housing, increased housing shortages and greater difficulties for the individual?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-280	Madam President, I would like I get worried when I hear Isabella Hökmark arguing. It is important to remember that housing construction is currently at record levels. I hope all the listeners understand that. We have levels of housing that we haven't really seen in decades. We were absolutely nowhere near that under the government that Isabella Hökmark represents, the alliance government. Then the figures for housing construction were very far below the levels we see now. This applies even if the fall that has taken place so far is taken into account. Of course, we must do what we can to stimulate housing construction. We must ensure that demand and supply match better. The fact that we now have a high level of construction is a first step along that road. The government is impatient and would like to do more. That is why we have an active housing policy, unlike the previous government, which did not take very many active measures to change the situation in the housing market. It may even be said that the measures taken at the time were rather instrumental in aggravating the situation and making it even worse, especially for new entrants to the market. The previous government reduced the property tax and at the same time raised the capital gains tax as part of a package. In addition, there was a violent sale of rental apartments, which made it more difficult to access that market. This has meant that there was room for the very strong increases in prices that we have seen. It's made it harder. Higher prices hamper entry into the housing market. Therefore, it is a bit meager that Isabella Hökmark here is trying to swear free from responsibility and push over all responsibility on this government. I am also concerned that the Moderates choose to constantly push tough decisions ahead of them. They turn a blind eye to risks in the Swedish economy. I do not think it is a responsible policy for a party that aspires to lead a government. I get worried when I hear Isabella Hökmark tone down the risks. She says that the risks of household indebtedness, private indebtedness, are not so great. She does not seem to have followed the developments of the financial crisis that hit the world in 2008 and 2009. It had its origins in the American housing market. They were not in control of household borrowings and credits. It then had subsequent consequences that have been dramatic, not only for the American economy but also for the economy of Sweden and the world. This makes me very concerned when the importance of these measures is reduced. I am also concerned about saying no to the measures proposed to deal with these risks, and doing so without making any proposals on how to act instead. Other opposition parties in the Alliance have pointed to alternatives, such as changing interest rebates. The Moderates say no to both of these options. So you're not going to do anything, you just want to close your eyes, cross your arms and cross your fingers to make sure nothing happens. There is no responsibility for the future. I do not think this is a responsible policy. Instead, we need to stimulate the housing market. We have introduced investment aid for rental apartments, which means that there is actually a market. You can get access to rental apartments. We want to do even more. We are therefore now looking to increase the level of aid under this scheme as well as the permitted level of rent so that it can have a greater impact in metropolitan areas too. We have also implemented a 22-point programme in the housing market to increase access to housing and also increase mobility. For example, we have abolished the ceiling on the amount of the deferral. This means that a household selling its home with profit can now postpone the taxation of capital gains, without any limitation as was the case during the previous government's time in power. So we have taken a number of measures to have an active housing policy. It has also produced results in the form of higher construction. We will not step down our work, but will continue to be active in housing policy. I hope that this time there will be a will on the part of the opposition parties to contribute to housing policy. Last time the government invited to housing policy talks, the opposition unfortunately chose to leave the table and did not want to continue with that process. It was another example of a lack of responsibility. I hope, however, that they have learned lessons from this and are prepared to be more constructive during the next parliamentary term. I think that would make a big difference to the housing market.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-290	Madam President, I would like I am here to ask questions to the Government, which has nevertheless been responsible for this area for four years. That's what makes it important. I don't really know what's going on, but we seem to be reading different statistics. Each week you can read about crashed housing projects where building no housing is not going to happen. One reason is that people cannot move, buy a dwelling or borrow. This is what we are seeing now, which is why I repeat my questions. There are so many desperate people. I would like to ask the Government to see what it looks like and to understand what it is like for a family or for new people who want to enter a housing market. It could be families that grow or split up or older people who want to move. This is really hard. A family that may live in a three today and split up may possibly buy each one. There they will take care of the children every two weeks. And those who are completely new to the housing market have no opportunity to save up to the million amounts involved in the Stockholm area in order to buy a home. This is what's so crazy. At the end of the Government's reply, he says that he does not want to roll over the risks to households through excessive credit or forced over-indebtedness. But that's exactly what's happening. Does the Government know what happens when you go to the bank to borrow? First of all, you can't borrow more than 4.5 times a year's salary. What happens next? You can get such a loan at a low interest rate. Then you take a blank loan. It may be at the same bank or at a credit institution. There you have to take a loan with maybe 5 - 6 percent interest, in order to buy your dream house or your first one. This is crazy. Indebtedness does not go down either. It gets worse if you borrow without any collateral at much higher interest rates. This is what I'm trying to describe. I wonder why the Government does not see that this is a problem. It has become a huge problem for everyone to borrow from a dwelling or change a dwelling. I felt that I had to put these questions forward because I am constantly being asked about this. A lot of people will be in touch. Especially after today, I am sure I will receive even more emails about this, as many people are watching, reacting and saying: How good that you are raising this issue! This is indeed a problem. I wonder if you in the government are satisfied. Does the Government not think that everyday reality for ordinary people is a problem?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-297	Madam President, I would like True, there is a slight decline in housing construction. However, remember that it is from record levels. Isabella Hökmark keeps trying to ignore that. The construction is at significantly higher levels than it did during the entire time of the alliance government in power. It is something that I am pleased and proud that we have been able to achieve. Of course, we will do everything we can to continue to have a high level of construction, because it is the lack of housing policy that has led to the situation we have today. The lack of active measures has meant that the housing market has been under-emerging all the time. It has always been built too little in relation to the population, and we are currently paying the price for it. It is also important to remember what Isabella Hökmark is constantly trying to tone down and underestimate: If we have an economic crisis in Sweden, it will be a huge blow to the housing market and not least to the people who want to enter the housing market and get a chance to get an accommodation. If there is one lesson we have learned from the previous financial crisis and the economic crisis, it is that it is doing great social damage. This creates a huge gap in public finances, which means that the economy cannot be stimulated and therefore it cannot be encouraged to build housing. Therefore, I think we have a great responsibility to ensure that we have stability in the Swedish economy, in public finances. I think that the Moderates regrettably fail their responsibility to maintain that stability. If you do not, we know that the effects will be disastrous, not least for the housing market. Construction is falling to virtually zero. Isabella Hökmark also points to the blank loans. True, they are increasing. They do so not only in Sweden but also in many other countries, so linking it directly to the Swedish bosta d smarkanden I do not think is really relevant or serious. It should also be remembered that the blank loans are increasing from a very low level. This is about a few percent of the total loan stock, so blowing it up as a huge problem in the Swedish economy is perhaps somewhat excessive. On the other hand, we have commissioned Finansinspektionen to monitor the development of the blank loans and report back to the government if you feel that this is a problem and what you can do about it. We are constantly trying to follow developments and provide relevant answers to them. I don't think you can do what Isabella Hökmark does and paint it as some kind of human right to borrow any amount of money in any situation to pay very high house prices. This gives us an escalating spiral towards higher and higher prices, which actually makes those who have small wallets the most difficult to enter the market. Now we have seen a stabilisation of house prices from having seen a constant increase in the past. Housing prices rose by over 30 per cent during this parliamentary term alone. Isabella Hökmark cannot mean that what would provide opportunities for people to enter the housing market is that we should continue to have sharply rising housing prices, higher and higher prices that will give those who are going to enter the housing market bigger and larger amounts to borrow and larger and larger amounts to finance. It is better that we have a more stable price development and a more balanced balance between supply and demand, between building and need for housing, in order to create the long-term conditions. Trying to pretend that the solution here and now is to remove restrictions on the credit market and give everyone the opportunity to borrow just how much they want to create risks for the financial system and for the Swedish economy in the future. We have experienced both an international financial crisis and a major financial crisis in the 1990s. I do not think that any of us should strive for this, but we should keep the raw materials and ensure that we protect ourselves from those risks. But not only that; it also creates risks for the individual borrower with very large loans. If the economy goes down and if the borrower himself suffers unemployment or a divorce or, at worst, a death in the family, we know that the consequences can be enormous for the individual household. Is the solution not rather to create the conditions for people to get a living without having to borrow very large sums of money and thus expose themselves to financial risks?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-304	Madam President, I would like It is relevant to talk about the increase in short selling loans as they are directly linked to the purchase of housing. This is where you can see the difference– they are linked directly to being able to buy their home. Of course, only more dwellings can reduce the rise in prices. The more housing and access to housing, the more prices are under pressure. That is the case; it is quite simple. I do not mean at all that you should look at people's finances and what kind of collateral they have when they take out loans. That's what the banks are supposed to do. They've done that before. I do not understand why an amortisation requirement should be imposed. There does not seem to be any creditors in the banks to judge, but they just run these rules without looking at the overall picture for the family or things like that. That's the problem. I would like to paint a picture of how things have turned out in Sweden today. I was watching TV the other night. At first, I didn't understand what it was. It was a family who stepped into a new home and said: Oh, now we have finally been able to realize our dreams! We've got a new place to live. I wondered what happened. Well, it turns out they had won on trotting horses. It's like the tip today: If you win money, you can buy a home. The tip is to take a ticket in the millionaire factory in Sweden, not to work, study and educate. If you want money to spend today, play more. That's the picture you get when you watch TV and when you hear how hard it is. There is no opening on the part of the government to see that it may have gone crazy. Can we mitigate the effects? Can we make it easier for families to make their choices and buy their dream homes?
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-310	Madam President, I would like It is surely the result of the moderate policy that we had over eight years of having to be hugely rich – have a high income or have won on trotting horses or lotto – in order to get into the housing market. It is mainly eight years of underperformance from the previous government that has led to far too little construction and far too poor balance in the housing market. We can only regret that at this point. It can also be regretted that the policy of the Moderates in these eight years was to increase the problem. Taxes on housing were removed, giving even more room to raise prices. The tax on moving, the capital gain tax, was increased, which led to increased resistance to move from large homes, for example. Deregulated and expatriated rental apartments reduced the market considerably also for those who want a rental right instead of putting themselves in big debt. It's boring. I'm concerned when Isabella Hökmark says there's no need for rules. No amortisation requirement is required, says Isabella Hökmark. The banks can do that on their own. Then one might ask why the Moderates were behind the first amortisation requirement, which we got through in a fairly broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. Have the Moderates now changed their minds on this issue too? That is very worrying and a rather surprising position, I have to say. We must take responsibility for Sweden. We must take responsibility for the housing market and ensure that it works. Housing construction is at higher levels than it has been in decades. I'm glad, but we're not happy. We'll do even more. That is why we have an active housing policy, in which we stimulate municipalities that produce building rights and building permits and also the housing companies that build apartments that people can actually afford to live in. We also need to take responsibility for the financial system, for public finances, and ensure that we do not build up risks that put us in the next financial crisis. Unfortunately, I note that the Moderates are failing in both of these perspectives, and that is something that I regret.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-314	Madam President, I would like Helena Lindahl has asked me whether the work on forest protection should not be carried out in dialogue with people and by trying to get forest owners to set aside land on a voluntary basis, thus respecting both ownership and biodiversity. Initially, I would like to emphasise that the protection of valuable natural areas is an important part of fulfilling several of Sweden's environmental objectives. Responsibility for protecting valuable natural areas is a responsibility that rests on both the state and the municipalities and landowners. Protected natural areas are of vital importance for the preservation of biodiversity and a very valuable asset for outdoor activities and tourism. The responsibility for protecting valuable nature is reflected in forestry and environmental policy and regulated by our common legislation. Landowners and other forest operators are responsible for carrying out their activities in a sustainable manner, within the framework of achieving national environmental objectives. The principle of freedom under responsibility means that the individual's ownership of the forest must be protected while the forest owner has an important part in the common responsibility to manage all the values of the forest resource. This shall be done in a long-term sustainable manner in accordance with the ecosystem approach and the requirements resulting from the minimum level of legislation. Fundamental property rights must be respected, and it is the individual forest owner who decides on how to use the forest within the framework of current legislation. Forest policy should be predictable and conducted so that it pays the individual forest owner to manage their forest so that the different values of the forest can be developed and exploited in the best possible way. The landowner who manages his forest in a way that is good for endangered species should be able to combine it with good economics for his business. With regard to the establishment of nature reserves, I would like to emphasise that it is a fundamental principle that agreements with landowners are made on a voluntary basis. It is important that the authorities make efforts to have a good dialogue with landowners so that the process of forest protection is as good as possible. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have recently reported a study showing that the majority of forest owners are satisfied with the authorities' information, actions and financial compensation when establishing formal protection on their property. Landowners have the right to compensation, for example, when an authority decides on nature reserve regulations or forms a biotop protection area if the Authority's decision makes ongoing land use significantly more difficult. The landowner can retain the land and receive compensation for intrusion into ongoing land use. Under the Expropriation Act, the infringement compensation must correspond to the decrease in the market value of the land plus an additional 25 %. In many cases, the owner can also choose to sell the land at market value. At the same time, the state has a responsibility to ensure that the work to protect valuable nature is cost-effective. The ambition to reach an agreement with all property owners before decisions are taken may mean that the negotiation period will be long. In these very few cases, the authorities can make decisions before the hearing is concluded. Landowners will then be able to bring an action for replacement before the Land and Environment Court, which will ensure a legally secure process. My view is that there is good support and guidelines for establishing formal protection through the guides and trainings that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency are responsible for. That is why I believe that the state's work on nature protection is carried out with respect for property rights and in dialogue with the landowners concerned and that the formal tools available provide a good basis for a transparent and legally secure process.
i-H7W6VvAYEJgvEMHZubcs1A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karolina Skog, for the detailed answer. Lennart Östlund is a man who lives in the village of Möklinta located in Västmanland. He's just over 70 years old today. He owns a forest property of about 75 hectares. It has been in the family's possession since the 1600s and is naturally close to Lennart's heart. He told me that he has learned everything about forest management from his grandfather. Ever since he was a little boy, he was accompanied by Grandpa into the woods. The goal of the management of the forest for Lennart has always been to produce very fine timber from trees that have been allowed to grow for a very long time. He has used it for windows, pillars and renovations of timber houses. There has not always been large-scale logging. The County Administrative Board has now for quite many years tried to take one third, about 22 hectares, of Lennart's forest from him because they want to make nature reserves. Lennart refuses and stands up. He has promised his grandmother and grandfather to take care of their old farm and the associated forest that has been in the family for 400 years. Separating those parts is unthinkable for Lennart. Unfortunately, you, Karolina Skog, have been involved in taking a stand against Lennart. You have signed a document in support of the County Administrative Board to take the forest away from him. If he signs voluntarily, he has been told, he receives compensation. The County Administrative Board says that you otherwise expropriate, and Lennart gets no money. For me, there's no volunteering in this. I feel more that it is a kind of bureaucratic blackmail almost in the best mafia manners, to be honest. It is regrettable that the government ministers are part of it. Just because one can theoretically do something like this does not mean that one can use the regulations to the maximum to get one's way through. You've chosen to destroy the family history of a defenseless 70-year-old. I think it's shameful. The reason for the high natural values that the County Administrative Board points to is because Lennart and generations before him have cared for the forest so tenderly. Why do you or you, as representatives of the government, allow Lennart's family's good management of the forest as an argument against him? I've spoken to Lennart several times. What has now happened has made him sick. He says he's in trouble. He's in a bad mental state. He has even been hospitalized because of heart problems, and he has trouble sleeping. That's the price he had to pay to say no to letting go of the forest. I wonder then, Karolina Skog: Do you think it reasonable that the authorities should for many years try to force forest on the grounds that it has great natural values, which is because the owner took care of the forest
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-330	Madam President, I would like I shall repeat some of what I said earlier, because the honourable Member obviously did not really listen. Landowners have the right to compensation, for example, when an authority decides on nature reserve regulations or forms a biotop protection area if the Authority's decision makes ongoing land use significantly more difficult. The landowner can retain the land and receive compensation for intrusion into ongoing land use. Under the Expropriation Act, the infringement compensation must correspond to the decrease in the market value of the land plus an additional 25 %. The owner may also choose to sell the land at market value. It is a fundamental principle that these issues are decided in consultation between the Authority and the individual landowner in the first place. However, if this is not possible, there is a formal way for the individual to appeal. That's what you're supposed to do to a court of law, and then the court will decide on it. So there is no case, as the honourable Member said, where a landowner can lose the right to compensation. That's the wrong information. I regret that a Member chooses to stand in the Chamber and disseminate it, despite the fact that there is written evidence as to what is at stake. I cannot and will not comment on individual cases either after or before we have tried them. I can say in general terms that the question of compensation is not being examined by the government. This is the order that has been decided in Sweden. We have chosen to put that review in court. It is a system that I and the government think is a good way of guaranteeing legal certainty. But of course it cuts into the heart when the relationship and consultation between an individual and the authority has not worked. No one will be unmoved by hearing the consequences of this. There is no difference in the approach to this between this government and previous governments. The rules that apply today have been formulated and written by the previous government and decided by the House, and this government has not changed any of those rules. I understand that there is a complete consensus that what is fundamental is consultation and dialogue. However, in order to guarantee legal certainty, a valve is needed as to what will happen when you do not agree. We have decided that the questions will then be decided in court. When we are in Parliament, however, I think it is important to focus on the overall development. Our authorities follow, as I mentioned, how landowners experience their work. I note that several measurements have been made, and satisfaction has increased in recent years. Landowners today express greater satisfaction with how the authority acts, what information it provides and how it is done when it is agreed on compensation. It is important for both the Riksdag and the Government to know that our authorities are making an effort and getting better.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-338	Madam President, I would like Well, Karolina Skog, I listen, and I have spoken to Lennart several times and also seen the document you have signed to support the county administrative board in their ambition to take the forest from Lennart. That's it. I have visited forest owners in different parts of the country quite intensively. Information is everywhere available on both abuse of authority and legal uncertainty. What Karolina Skog says to me, that it only works better, is therefore nothing I have heard so far. Individual forest owners, like the forest industry as an industry, feel that property rights are increasingly being eroded, even though they are constitutionally protected and are enshrined in EU law and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. In addition, there are double signals from the government about what applies about ownership and the possibility of increased forest removal. This has put the necessary investments in some parts of the country on ice. I have a recent example from northern Sweden, from which I come. In Domsjö outside Örnsköldsvik, a large biorefinery was planned to be built at a cost of between 16 and 22 billion. However, CEO Lars Winter says that double signals from the government regarding the possibilities of the issues I have raised have caused investors to close their ears. The design has been put on ice. This means that it is becoming more difficult to switch from a fossil to a green society, which I think we agree that we actually want. In addition, the potential for the thousands of jobs that the biorefinery could have created in the north is now being reduced. I believe that most people who know about the labour market in northern Sweden know that jobs are not directly involved. In addition, forest owners have hastened to harvest their forests, because they are terrified that government agencies will find something protective that can be saved. This means that you no longer have a right of use as a forest owner, but a wet blanket is placed over your forest land. This can hardly benefit biodiversity. Me and the Center Party think we need to back up a few steps and work more with voluntary provisions. This is done in Finland, for example, and it seems to be going well. Nor can we allow the state to hunt people so that they become ill. We need to work more with exchange land in state forest. What does the Minister think would be the case if the state were to adopt the same approach as is currently being used in relation to forests in other areas? It would be unthinkable to force people's apartments or businesses into existence because there are interesting values that the state wants to preserve. No one would accept such a procedure. Then why should the forest owners do it? There must be more rhyme and reason, and it must be possible to combine biodiversity and property rights with human dignity.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-346	Madam President, I would like Once again, I shall repeat something I have said before. The forestry law and the rules that apply in Sweden for formal area protection, which I believe this is about – it is important to distinguish between the different types of protection – was written by the former bourgeois government and decided by the Swedish parliament. Our government has found no reason to change any part of the area protection work. The difference now compared to the previous government is that we have added as much money for compensation as is required for another decision that has been made. This means that the goal for the formal protection of forests that exists within Swedish nature conservation now seems to be reached. The Environmental Protection Agency reports that it has enough compensation money to provide compensation to landowners when agreed upon, so that this work can continue. This is the only difference. Therefore, the pace of the formation of nature reserves is now higher in Sweden, and we look, as I said, to reach the agreed milestone for the protection of forests. However, I can repeat another thing that is clearly known. We have announced that we will review the Species Protection Regulation, which deals with the protection of individual species. There are ambiguities which have led to a lack of consistency in the application of the law. That's not how it's supposed to be. It should be clear what applies, and that is why we will be reviewing that part. I do not understand that this is what has been debated here today, but it may be useful to mention it. I fully share the picture: Of course, it should be possible to combine protection of nature and species with a good economy in the nutrition of the forest. There is no fundamental political difference here. As I see it, the difference is where we get our picture of reality. Is it from individual stories, or are we systematically looking at the material that we actually get from our authorities? The material available on how landowners experience the process, in the form of their answers when they are systematically asked how our authorities act on this issue, shows that more people today say that the authorities provide good information and that the process of agreeing on compensation is good. There are more who answer that it works well today than it was a few years ago, during the time of the bourgeois government. That is the information we have at our disposal when assessing the situation. However, this does not mean that there are never cases where it does not work between the authority and the individual. This can be very problematic for the individual, and then it will have to be dealt with in courts. The important thing is that it should be clear, predictable and legally secure.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-352	Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog and I have different views about the rule of law and government belief. I made a broadcast on Facebook from a stump in the forest in Gumbodahamn, where I live. The small transmission was seen by 400,000 people. I have never received as much feedback on any issue as I have on ownership. People got in touch from all over the country. They didn't get in touch because they thought it worked great with the ownership. Instead, it seemed to be eroded, and there was increased distrust of authorities. The interpretation of the law was also difficult. I have had the same experience on the journey I now make through Sweden. For us in the Center Party, ownership is very grounded. It is a right to be respected, including by the state. In fact, we see that it is possible to develop the forest industry while preserving biodiversity. But that cannot happen as it does today, because forest owners are relying less and less on the state. It is very worrying to hear all these stories about the abolition of the rule of law. It's not just individual stories, Karolina Skog. That you've set aside more money is great, but as long as you don't pay out the money, it's still a problem. For example, some twenty owners of mountain forest in Västerbotten's hinterland have now sued the state because the authorities blame each other and claim that this is not about ongoing land use. That and the fact that the government is also watching, I think is beneath any criticism. Lennart Östlund, who I started by telling you about, has now sued the state. Although I can be seen as a representative of the state as a politician in Parliament, I think he is doing the right thing. Lennart, if you see this, I want to say something to you: I hope you win.
i-af40d22fa7ff6200-357	Madam President, I would like We need to keep track of the different parts of the work on biodiversity and not, as Helena Lindahl does here, confuse them and thereby give a false picture of how things work. There is a legal process in progress with regard to compensation for mountain forests, and it has been extremely prolonged. I and the government are very sorry about that. We have announced that if it will end in the fact that there is no right to compensation in these parts, we are prepared to review the rules, but it is premature to promise how to act politically before having the final decision. We have given a message in that part that, in the case of individuals, we will review the rules. That's the government's intention. Helena Lindahl says that her and the Center Party's ambition is to combine ownership and work with biodiversity. Unfortunately, however, from the time they were in government, they were unable to do both. The price for this was that it was a very low pace in the work with protection. Objectives were decided but did not provide the money needed to achieve them. The difference in what we are now doing on the part of the government is that we are filling this budget line with enough money so that we can now say that we have the forecast that the objective decided by the previous government will actually be achieved. I'm proud of that. Contrary to the picture that Helena Lindahl is trying to give here, we are pursuing a policy that leads to it being invested in the Swedish green industry. We will have several new large biorefineries in Sweden so that we can get Swedish produced fuel.
