i-892823c3b1c4e577-1	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether I intend to take further action to demand the release of Ahmadreza Djalalis and whether I intend to act to stop the execution of Ramin Hossein Panahi. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaverh has asked how I am working towards greater legal certainty and respect for human rights in Iran, and what I intend to do within the EU and for Sweden to improve the situation regarding the rights of women and minorities in Iran and other countries in the Middle East. The human rights situation in Iran is very serious, not least with regard to the execution of a large number of capital punishments. Sweden's position on the death penalty is well known. It is an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment that is contrary to human rights. We condemn the application of the death penalty in all its forms. The EU is a driving force in the process of abolishing the death penalty, and Sweden is taking an active part in the EU's work. The widespread application of the death penalty in Iran, including for minors, is very worrying. Sweden addresses MRs in all political contacts with Iran. The Swedish Government will continue to be clear and have a straight dialogue with Iranian representatives on the issue of the human rights situation in Iran, including the execution of a large number of capital punishments. Some time ago we were reached by the worrying information that the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali should have been passed by the Iranian Supreme Court. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is continuously addressing the case of representatives of Iran both in Stockholm and in Tehran. I myself and the Cabinet Secretary have repeatedly raised the case with the Iranian Foreign Minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif. Swedish authorities have a dialogue with Iranian representatives about Djalalis's situation. The Swedish Embassy in Tehran has requested permission to visit Djalali and also requested clarification on his situation. Swedish authorities are also in contact with Djalalis's relatives. In our contacts, we present with Emphas Sweden and the EU's view of the death penalty. Sweden is demanding that the death sentence is not carried out, and we, together with the rest of the EU, have protested against the punishment on repeated occasions. We continue our consular efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali. We are aware of Ramin Hussein Panahis's case and follow it closely, including through our embassy in Tehran. We have courted the Iranian authorities through the EU in this case and continue to follow it. We regularly raise cases of human rights violations and abuses with Iran through the EU and bilaterally. Through our embassy in Teheran, we participate in joint EU démarches to the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary. There is no doubt that the human rights situation in Iran is very worrying. Sweden's position on human rights, democracy and the rule of law is clear. Discrimination against women and girls and insufficient respect for the human rights of minorities are examples of issues that are regularly addressed in our dialogue with Iran. The Swedish Government will also continue to pursue these and other human rights issues within the UN and the EU in order to strengthen respect for human rights in Iran. Sweden is part of a core group of countries presenting the resolution to extend the mandate of the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran. The UN Human Rights Council adopted the resolution on 25 March this year and extended the mandate for another year. Sweden has been active in this core group since 2011. Within the EU, we have just finished work on extending restrictive measures, in the form of freezing funds and economic resources and travel restrictions, against persons responsible for serious human rights violations in Iran. Sweden can play a clear role in strengthening female participation in Iran, in the labour market and in society. This includes the bilateral memorandum of understanding on cooperation for increased female participation signed during the Prime Minister's visit in February 201 7 and followed up by the Swedish Institute. It is positive that we have been able to negotiate and sign such a document, even though Iran is otherwise far from us on this issue. It shows how we can achieve results by expressing our fundamental positions in dialogue.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-10	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and thank you for your commitment to human rights and women's rights in Iran! As the Foreign Minister said in his response, there are currently widespread human rights violations in Iran – violations of women's rights, trade union activists, Kurds and other minorities. There are crimes against all opponents and not least against women, who have lived under sex apartheid for 40 years. But they're fighting for their rights, and they're fighting the veil duty, even under the supervision of moral policemen and police officers. We know that Amnesty has stated that Iran executed 507 people in 2017, several of which were children – minors. We also know that every day innocent people are sentenced to death without having a legally secure trial and without anything in the legal system being on the side of the prisoners. One of them, which I mentioned in my interpellation, is KI researcher Ahmadreza Djalali. He is condemned to death and now a Swedish citizen. He's a scientist who's gone back to his homeland to contribute knowledge, and now he's doomed. I believe that if we do not demand his release, he will certainly not even have time to be executed; he will die in prison, like many others. Many other workers' activists have not been executed but have died in prison, under psychological and physical torture. That is why my question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the government will demand his release, for example when the Iranian delegation is coming here in June – as I have heard. When we have trade agreements and exchanges with Iran, we must also make counter-requirements for it to be clear. After all, he is a Swedish citizen, and I know that the Foreign Minister has done everything to prevent Ahmadreza from being executed. But that is not enough; we do not want him to die in prison without execution. In any case, we must give Iran an ultimatum: if we are to have a trade agreement, we must also ensure that he is released without any demands. I have also highlighted another person who is condemned to death. His name is Ramin Hossein Panahi. This is a young guy who's been imprisoned and sentenced to death for no reason. He's waiting to be executed after Ramadan. His sister has already committed suicide in protest, and the mother has said that she will set herself on fire outside the prison if they execute Ramin. That is why I think it is important that Sweden's voice be heard here and that we are clear. It's good that we say that we're against the death penalty and that we're doing everything within the EU and the UN-- that's very important-- but also in individual cases we should be able to raise our voice.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-18	Mrs. Old President! There is no doubt that the human rights situation in Iran is very serious. To sum up briefly, I would like to mention the execution of a large number of the death penalty, which we have seen recently, and a lack of respect for the principles of the rule of law. Iran's judicial system is not politically independent. The trials can be short – sometimes only a few minutes – and without the opportunity for the defendants to defend themselves. The penalties are usually very strict, and sweeping criminal offences are a problem. It is difficult to appeal judgments, since the sentenced person has limited access to a defence lawyer and is not always informed of his rights. This lack of legal certainty is repeated in all our contacts with the Iranian authorities. Ensuring a fair legal process is, of course, a key element also when we make joint EU démarches. When we go to the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary, which is what our embassy in Tehran regularly participates in, it often happens due to specific cases. We will continue to address and try to influence the human rights situation in Iran, including the judiciary and the use of the death penalty. We will also continue to address and closely follow individual cases. We have a continuous dialogue with Iranian representatives on Djalalis's situation and, of course, we will continue to demand first and foremost that the death penalty is not enforced. With regard to the case of Panahis, Sweden has acted through the EU, which has now courted the Iranian authorities in Tehran through the country holding the Presidency. During this démarche, concerns were expressed about the legal process and the application of the death penalty. Here the execution of the death penalty has been postponed while the Iranian authorities are examining the judicial process. We will continue to follow this very closely, and it is important that Iran also understands that we are doing so. Without dialogue with Iranian representatives, our ability to influence the situation of MRs in Iran and to raise individual cases is limited. That is why the US's decision to leave the nuclear agreement is deeply unfortunate. For Sweden and the EU, the agreement allowed us to deepen the dialogue with Iran, including the human rights dialogue. It has opened this channel, so to speak. The agreement strengthened the pro-reform forces in Iran. They promote greater openness towards other countries, and they are working relatively more closely to strengthen respect for human rights. Sweden and the EU have been very clear that the agreement must be followed by improvements in Iran's very serious human rights situation. The policy of isolation towards Iran advocated by the United States risks strengthening the conservative forces in Iran, and Trumps's decision risks having negative consequences for the human rights situation in the country as well. These are the reasons why Sweden and the EU will continue to work to preserve the agreement.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-27	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is very gratifying and strengthening that the Foreign Minister explicitly says that he wants to stop the executions and that he raises the issues one step in the UN and the EU. Of course, a country cannot achieve this on its own; it is therefore good to act together with other EU and UN countries. The problem with the United Nations, as the Foreign Minister pointed out, is that the United States today has no interest in human rights in other countries, including Iran. That is why our voice is very important in the European Union, for example. Our vote is also important when the Iranian authorities or trade delegations arrive or when the Foreign Minister meets Iranian representatives. It is important to be clear on human rights and also on individual cases such as Ramin and Ahmadreza. These two cases have become very well known internationally, but there are many others who have been sentenced to death and executed without grounds. Children are executed. Women are imprisoned and executed. Many Afghans and Arabs in the southern parts are executed without anyone even knowing this. Arabs and Afghans in Iran are second or third-class citizens. This is often done on the grounds that they would sell drugs or be drug addicts. However, it is done to stifle political voices by executing them and saying that they are criminals. This must not happen, especially now that we are in contact with Iran. We also know that Iran is a country engaged in regional dictatorship and imperialism. They contribute to the war in Syria and Yemen as well as in the war against Hizbollah and Hamas. Iran plays a major role in the region, including with its allied Russia. So it is not enough just to worry. We simply need to take this seriously, both when it comes to stopping war and when it comes to refugees. Why do refugees from Afghanistan who have lived in Iran come to Sweden and other EU countries? That's because these people have no rights. We have said that we should stop refugees from coming to Europe, but what will they do if they have no human freedoms and rights? On many points we must be very alert. Human rights are also the rights of refugees and the rights of minorities, such as the Kurds. They say that Ramin is a political activist, but he is one of those who have protested against the regime along with many other young people. To control the Kurds and keep them quiet, they are executed or threatened with execution. In this way, all voices are suffocated. If Iran wants to open up to the West, to Sweden and to the EU, then we must therefore counter-require human rights, women's rights and the rights of the Kurds.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-37	Mrs. Old President! It is easy to agree with a lot of what Amineh Kakabaveh says. Ethnic and religious minorities, oppositional and trade union representatives are at high risk in Iran today. There may be reason to highlight the situation of women, and the government has been very clear on these issues. In our dialogue with Iran, we are clearly pointing out the shortcomings we see. What we can do to gain strength is to operate through the UN and the EU and use the sanctions tool, but also, through our statements and bilateral contacts, to point this out in every possible way. The situation regarding trade union rights and the possibility of trade union organisation is very bad in Iran. Independent trade unions are not allowed. Many trade union and labour law activists are imprisoned. That particular situation was raised when the Prime Minister visited Iran in February, and there was actually a representative of IF Metall in the delegation. It was an important discussion. Many Swedish companies are prominent in terms of sustainability, corporate social responsibility and good relations between management and employees. An increased presence of Sweden and Swedish companies gives us the opportunity to spread our Swedish values in these matters and also in terms of workers' rights and the possibility of organising. That is why the decision by the United States to leave the core agreement is so unfortunate. Otherwise, there would have been an opportunity to gain access to Iran. We highlight these issues in all our contacts with Iranian representatives at different levels. In April, I met with Iran's Vice-President in charge of women's affairs. We had a very good dialogue on, among other things, the importance of increasing the presence of women in the labour market. I believe that we can play a clear role in strengthening female participation in Iran both in the labour market and in society. This applies then to our bilateral Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation for increased female participation signed in 2017. It is therefore possible to achieve results by expressing our fundamental positions in dialogue and then following up on this. We shall continue to use all our diplomatic and political tools to influence and do so on the basis of our view of human rights, respect for human rights. We will also continue to insist that the HR representative should continue his work. The resolutions adopted by the Human Rights Council in Geneva are important from this point of view. I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for our discussions. We shall continue to point out these shortcomings and also address the individual cases, which are very important for us consular and political.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-45	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is very good that we in Sweden are highlighting trade union rights in Iran, where we actually have Swedish companies and employ employees and workers. But in fact there are no trade union rights in Iran, as the Foreign Minister said. Unfortunately, Iranian workers in our companies do not have the same trade union rights as Swedish workers. It is therefore important to ensure that trade union rights and the right to organise themselves exist. This right must also exist with Swedish companies operating in Iran. Unfortunately, I do not see developments as positive as the Minister for Foreign Affairs does. In Iran, the foreign policy situation, such as Trump, is also used for repression of its own people. Iran is in deep economic crisis. However, we do not want to talk about this, but it is easier to talk about the EU and America and that everything that is happening in Iran is their fault. It is usually the case when dictatorships simply want to consolidate their power. I therefore hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer my last question if the Minister for Foreign Affairs wishes to demand the release of KI researcher Ahmadreza Djalali and to stop the execution of Ramin and all other political prisoners. It is important that our voice never dies, but Sweden must be a voice for women's rights and trade union rights.
i-JwRwyyjwicAEVAS4nsJ6nm	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for this discussion. I certainly have not said that we can see a particularly positive development in Iran. On the contrary, we have been increasingly concerned about developments in human rights. We have seen an increase in the number of capital punishments that have been issued and enforced and human rights not being respected. We have been very worried about this. That is why we have regular discussions in the EU community on the sanctions rules and decided to extend the sanctions. We have also made démarches several times. It has also concerned individual cases, where we get solidarity from other EU countries. It makes us much stronger. And in our bilateral contacts we constantly point this out. The problem, of course, is that Trump has announced that it wants to leave the core agreement. The forces then supported are the most conservative forces. It will not help us in our fight to turn the trend towards a situation with greater respect for human rights. As far as individual cases are concerned, our approach depends on what we judge best benefits the issue and the individual. Then we sometimes have to choose to publish criticism, but sometimes we have to be more discreet. But we want to make a difference for the individual. We will continue to argue that the death penalty should not be applied, and we will continue our dialogue to ensure that there is respect for human rights in Iran.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-54	Mrs. Old President! Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what Sweden should do to carry out concrete peace work and foreign policy to contribute to reduced international arms trade and Swedish arms exports. She has also asked how I intend to dismantle the dependency relationship between Sweden and the EU and Turkey linked to refugee flows into Europe. The interpellant has also asked what the government intends to do in national and EU capacities in order for Turkey to release the HDP leader Demirtaş and other political prisoners and how I intend to persuade Turkey to conduct democratic elections without presidential candidates in prison. Kakabaveh has also asked how Sweden, nationally and as an EU member, will eliminate threats to those who have fled Turkey and whose freedom is restricted by refugee espionage and angiveri. The interpellant has also asked how Sweden, as an individual state and within the EU, intends to induce Turkish troops to leave Afrin and Rojava. Finally, Mr Kakabaveh has asked me what the government intends to do to remove the terrorist stamp from the PKK. So many questions are asked in the interpellation. I share the interpellant's concern about the situation in several parts of the Middle East, not least in Syria, and about the deteriorating human rights, democracy and the rule of law situation in Turkey. Sweden continues to consistently pay attention to the situation of opposition politicians, journalists, academics and civil society actors and is pushing EU Member States to continue to act together to improve respect for human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. Sweden also acts locally, for example by our foreign authorities monitoring trials as part of the diplomatic mission. Both the Embassy of Sweden in Ankara and the Consulate General in Istanbul have been watching the trials against HDP leader Selahattin Demirtaş. The government already stated when Mr Yüksekda and Mr Demirtaş were arrested that they should be released. Parlamentarians like Demirtaş must be allowed to operate in accordance with their democratic mandate. The government expects the presidential and parliamentary elections in Turkey on 24 June, and the process leading up to the election day, to be conducted in accordance with international standards for free and fair elections. That is why I am deeply concerned about the fact that the state of emergency still exists in the country, which makes it difficult for opposition parties and candidates to run an election campaign on equal terms. The government welcomes the fact that Turkey has invited Odihr to observe the elections, and Sweden is providing robust support in the form of election observers to this effort. As far as the flow of refugees is concerned, Turkey has received more than 3 1⁄2 million refugees, for which it deserves our recognition. The EU supports Turkey's reception of refugees through a EUR 3 billion funding facility. This is the EU's biggest humanitarian effort ever, where millions of people, of whom a large proportion are children, receive humanitarian aid, education and health care. The government has been clear in its criticism of Turkey's military operation in the Afrin region both bilaterally as well as within the EU and the UN. In the past, I have reported in this House on Sweden's leading role in the UN Security Council with regard to Resolution 2401 on the national ceasefire in order to enable humanitarian access. The resolution applies throughout Syria, including Aphrin. Afrin is unacceptable, with information on looting and people being forced to flee. We have condemned this. With regard to the issue of threats to persons of Turkish origin, it is the task of Säpo to prevent and detect espionage of refugees. Säpo has an exchange of information and experience with other countries where it is deemed relevant. The key to preventing espionage is, however, that suspicious activities come to the attention of Säpo. With regard to the PKK, the organisation is listed as a terrorist by the EU. The most important question is how to persuade the Turkish State to revive a credible and inclusive peace process in the country. Sweden is in favour of this, both bilaterally and within the EU. I share the interpellete's concern that too broad the application of anti-terrorism legislation can be used to get to police opponents. We have also emphasised this in the framework of the EU-Turkey High Level Dialogue on Counter-Terrorism. Within the Government, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson is responsible for the issue of export control of Swedish armaments. However, I would like to emphasise that Sweden has one of the world's most stringent regulations for arms exports. The rules have recently been further strengthened with the entry into force of a new Armaments Act. Sweden is also working internationally to strengthen the control of arms exports, including by encouraging and supporting the effective implementation of the UN Arms Trade Treaty. Mrs. Old President! Sweden continues to closely monitor developments in Turkey, and the focus of our commitment is democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We take every opportunity to inculcate our messages to Turkish counterparts, both on our own and in cooperation with other EU countries, in bilateral contacts and in multilateral contexts.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-66	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is gratifying that we agree on what is going on in Turkey and in neighbouring countries. Turkey and Iran are today the regional powers and play a major role in, for example, the war in Syria. Mr Erdo中an has driven the Kurds away and occupied the territory of another country, which is unacceptable and a crime of international law. Turkey wants to drive the Kurds away, and Erdo中an wants to create a so-called security zone to move Arab Sunni refugees from Turkey to the Kurdish area, where they and other minorities have lived for centuries. Mr Erdo中an has also speeded up the elections that should have been held in November, but now it will be on 24 June instead. He wants to strengthen his position of power even more. He has imprisoned hundreds of thousands of academics, lawyers and political activists, and 5,000 of them are politicians and leaders of HDP. Selahattin Demirtaş is in prison, although he is one of the presidential candidates against Erdo中an. How is it possible that a presidential candidate is incarcerated while Mr Erdo中an is conducting his election campaign at the expense of the Kurds and hundreds of thousands of prisoners? In addition, a state of emergency is under way. Today, unfortunately, Turkey is a large prison, not just for its Kurds, but for all its opponents. Today's oppression of the Kurds is one of the worst of all times. First there was Diyarbakir and the siege of the Kurdish parts. We have raised this in the Chamber many times. Then there were Aphrin and Rojava. Now all who protest and raise their voices against Turkey both inside and outside the country are called terrorists. Therefore, it is important to lift the terrorist stamp from the PKK. It is, of course, the same organisation with which Turkey sat up to 2015 at the negotiating table. If it was a terrorist organization, how could you negotiate with it? This can be used against Turkey. If we are to solve the Kurdish problem in Turkey and get rid of the terror stamp on oppositionists, one step is to lift the terror stamp from the PKK. Today, over 20 million Kurdish children in municipal schools do not have the right to read their own language. Will or will the Foreign Minister not demand the release of Selahattin Demirtaş and the other political prisoners?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-75	Mrs. Old President! It is good that there is broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament and in the EU in the assessment of the very serious developments in Turkey today. In order to promote change in the country, Sweden and the EU need to work on a broad front and with the various tools available. A parliamentary and presidential elections are about to take place on 24 June and, of course, the eyes of many are now on Turkey. Many of us also remember Mr Odihr's clear views on the holding of the referendum in the country just over a year ago, and many of the conditions that prevailed at that time remain. It is difficult to see how free and fair elections can be conducted when the state of emergency is still in force. The playing field is very uneven between the government side and the opposition, and it is difficult for voters to get impartial information about which options exist via the more and more uniform and controlled media supply. Sweden has been a driving force in bringing about clear EU statements within, among others, the OSSE in recent times. This applies, in particular, to the freedom of the media and the detention of journalists in Turkey. Freedom of expression, media freedom and the free press are fundamental prerequisites for a democratic society. Another prerequisite, as Mr Amineh points out, is that parties and candidates can carry out their political work and participate in the elections on equal terms. The government clearly expressed its criticism when the two party leaders of the Turkish opposition party HDP, i.e. Yüksekda, and Demirtaş, were arrested together with a number of other party members in November 2016. The government then concluded that this could not be seen as isolated cases but as a continuation of a longer period of action against HDP representatives. Therefore, it has been important to show solidarity with the arrested HDP leaders by ensuring that staff from the embassy and the Consulate General monitor their trials. Both to the Turkish ambassador in Stockholm and to Turkish government representatives in Ankara, we have made criticisms about this broad application of anti-terrorism legislation in Turkey. Through bilateral reform aid, we are also contributing to a viable civil society in Turkey. The organisations that receive Swedish aid are active in areas such as freedom of expression, democracy promotion and gender equality. Sweden is therefore working to ensure that the EU has a common and clear Turkey policy. The European Commission's progress report, presented in April, was clear in its analysis of the negative developments in the country. The fact that these developments have had consequences for the relationship with the EU is very clear. At the same time, it is important for the people of Turkey, not least the opposition, to see that the European perspective remains, not least on the day that Turkey is willing to approach the European Union again. Of course, we believe that the opposition leaders who have been imprisoned must be released and that there must also be a proper political debate in Turkey and that the candidates should be able to present their policies. This is what we continue to assert in both bilateral contacts and via the EU.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-85	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Foreign Minister for this. Mr Erdo does not wish to approach on his own initiative and voluntarily unless Turkey is called upon to do so. Solidarity is good. As Turkey is not just any country, demands must also be made. Turkey is actually a candidate for the European Union. Unfortunately, Sweden and the EU have almost bought their own voice through this refugee agreement. Erdo can harbor resentment against Europe, Sweden and other countries. But we are completely silent, especially now that there is an election campaign and when there is a state of emergency. Meanwhile, political oppositionists are in prison. He himself conducts a Turkish nationalist campaign with Islamist elements against all voices. We have also highlighted the issue of espionage for refugees. In Sweden and the EU there is extensive espionage. Refugees who have fled Turkey to use their right of expression in Sweden and in Europe cannot do so today for fear of reprisals against relatives. I meet a lot of people. It is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very clear that our legal system is watching this. The Swedish feminist government is raising the voice for women's rights. We want women to have the same opportunities and rights. But that is far from the case in many countries. However, as far as the Kurds are concerned, we know that both in Rojava, in Turkey and in Iraqi Kurdistan, Kurds and Kurdish women have fought IS/ Daish. Although the military is defeated, Kurds and other minorities have another fear, namely of the State of Turkey, Syria and Iran, and those involved in violations of human rights in the various parts where Kurds and other minorities are present. That is why I believe that this simply cannot be seen as isolated events, but it is all connected. I have also highlighted a question of arms exports, because no regime anywhere in the world can wage war without sophisticated weapons from the West. We know that Sweden is one of the countries that has exported war material for 11.3 billion last year. Turkey is one of the countries that buy arms both from the EU and from other parts of the world. I wonder whether Sweden and the government will stop arms exports to Turkey, because Turkey is waging war against other countries and against its own population. That is why this is very relevant given that it affects so many women, children and minorities. War affects women and children and the most vulnerable. It is therefore very important that the Swedish feminist government simply stops arms exports to dictatorships such as Turkey, which is a more authoritarian Islamic dictatorship today.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-91	Mrs. Old President! I know you're very committed to all these different issues, Amineh Kakabaveh. The intervention includes everything from arms exports to the situation in Syria, to Turkey and to refugee espionage. We may not have time to sort all this out. But first of all, I would like to say that we are not silent. It is not the case that Sweden is silent when it comes to criticism of what is happening in Turkey and what is happening in Syria. On the contrary, we are very active, and our voice is heard both in the UN and in the EU context. As far as Syria is concerned, the situation is terrible there. Above all, we must do everything we can to ensure that civilians can breathe from the horrors of war. That is why we have made every effort to promote a ceasefire, to support a UN-led political process and to improve the humanitarian situation in Turkey. We reacted very resolutely and acted resolutely when Turkey's Operation olive branch, as it was called, began in Afrin province. We have raised this issue with Turkish representatives on a number of occasions and at different levels. We have been active in multilateral fora, as I said, both in the UN and in the EU. I have also made it clear in the past in this House that information about looting and about people being driven on the run is unacceptable and something that we condemn. We have also paid attention to the international legal dimension of Turkey's actions. We have stated both in Ankara and here in Sweden to Turkish representatives that the demands for ceasefire and humanitarian access apply to the whole of Syria, including Aphrin. We have stressed the importance of an immediate escalation of violence, respect for international law and the protection of civilians. And all states have a duty to comply with Security Council Resolution 2401. We have repeatedly highlighted the importance of resuming a peace process in Turkey. It is a necessity for Turkey's security and social and economic cohesion. It would have positive consequences also in Syria and in the region as a whole. The relationship with Kurdish groups in neighbouring countries also affects the stability of the whole region. So I fully agree with Amineh Kakabaverh. As far as arms exports are concerned, I will not comment on individual cases. Moreover, it is not I who have this responsibility in the government, but it is Morgan Johansson. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we have one of the world's most stringent regulations on arms exports. It is very clear when it comes to how, where and to whom to export. In addition, a democracy criterion is now being introduced into the armaments legislation. It's very important.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-96	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Foreign Minister for this. Of course it's all connected, and my questions are connected. Weapons and arms exports lead to war, and in war women, minorities and others are affected. The vulnerable minorities are Kurds, both in Rojava and in Turkey. They are imprisoned and branded as terrorists for trying to assert themselves and trying to obtain their political, cultural and human rights. That is why I want Sweden and the EU to do everything possible to remove this terror stamp if you want peace in the Middle East and for the Kurds. Turkey is a NATO country. Under the flag of NATO and with its soldiers, Turkey is raping and occupying another country and its own people. During the 2015 elections, he used Daish against the Kurds. As soon as HDP got less votes, Daish disappeared. Who was Daish? It was Turkey itself! We have evidence that he has imprisoned journalists who have revealed this. Given the feminist foreign policy, you, Margot, should yourself be one of those who raise their voices and say: No, we should never export weapons to countries that wage war against other countries and where women and minorities are affected! Yet we export weapons to Turkey. That is why it is so important that all these questions are linked and to be answered. I know you don't have time to go through everything in 20 minutes, but of course this is connected. It is not possible to put people in prison for campaigning for themselves. We must do everything we can to ensure that Selahattin and all other political prisoners are released.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-100	Mrs. Old President! In our legislation it is already forbidden to export to belligerent countries. As Amineh also knows very well – and here I think we are on the same side – we do not mean that Sweden should join NATO, as it looks. In our contacts with Turkey, the government will continue to demand respect for international law and human rights. We believe that dialogue and engagement with government, opposition and civil society is the best way to monitor these issues in order to reverse the negative developments in Turkey. We have cooperation with many actors in the country, not least through the support for reform that we have. In a situation where the space for opposition and civil society is now shrinking before the forthcoming elections, this work becomes more important than ever. We will continue to follow and act on developments in Afrin. We expect a regionally important player like Turkey to respect the Security Council's call for a ceasefire. That's what we demand of them. We will continue to work through both the EU and the UN for a political solution for a country-wide ceasefire and full humanitarian access. Of course, in order to resolve the Kurdish question, we also encourage the opening of a peace dialogue and efforts. The best thing would be to ensure a more peaceful development, not only in Turkey but around the world.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-103	Mrs. Old President! Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether the content of the speech by the Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas before the PLO Parliamentary Assembly PNC on 30 April will have any practical consequence in Sweden's contacts with the Palestinian Authority and whether the government will demand Abbas to distance himself from its statement and apologise to Israel. Mikael Os c arsson also asks if the statement will lead Sweden to stop its development cooperation with Palestine. In his speech to the PNC, President Abbas made statements that were unacceptable. They are offensive to all of us who are fighting anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred. These comments do not help the Palestinians' work for peace with Israel. The government raised the issue directly with the Palestinian leadership after the speech, when the PNC was still going on. I myself have also made it clear that anti-Semitic statements of this form are unacceptable. At the same time, I pointed out that Sweden and the EU are committed to combating all forms of anti-Semitism and all attempts to excuse, justify and trivialise the F.J. The world's response to the speech has been clear, and the government has endorsed the pronunciation of the spirit of both the EU and the UN. In our bilateral contacts with Palestine, we were clear in our criticisms and in the need for an apology. On 4 May, a statement was published from President Abbas in which he apologized, described the Holocaust as the most abominable crime in history, and rejected anti-Semitism in all its forms. In line with previous Swedish governments, the government continues to work for a peaceful solution, based on international law, to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict where two states can exist side by side, with Jerusalem as the capital of both. The two-state solution has been the goal of the international community, including the UN and the EU, for decades. Sweden's development cooperation with Palestine has been going on for a long time under various governments. It is aimed at helping the Palestinian people through support for sustainable and democratic Palestinian state-building. This objective is shared by the donor community. Swedish aid funds do not go directly to the Palestinian Authority's budget. The central obstacle to Palestinian state-building is the Israeli occupation. At the same time, there are steps that the Palestinian Authority can already take to improve the situation. Among other things, the Palestinian Authority needs to make democratic progress, combat corruption, distance itself from violence and increase civil society's space. The government continuously highlights these needs in the dialogue with Palestine, most recently when Cabinet Secretary Söder met President Abbas and other Palestinian representatives in the turn of April – May. If Sweden were to conclude its cooperation with Palestine, the Palestinian people would be seriously affected in an already difficult situation. This would be directly counterproductive, with serious consequences for both the humanitarian situation and security in the region. It would also make it more difficult to find a fair solution to the conflict. In the current situation between Israel and Palestine, with a sharp deterioration in the situation on the ground, great humanitarian needs, a halted peace process and increased tensions between the parties and in the region, it is more important than for a long time that Sweden maintains the dialogue with both parties and seizes the opportunity to push forward in the right direction.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-111	Mrs. Old President! Sweden can play a role in the Middle East if we want to and if we start to counter-require our aid. We are the fourth largest donor to the Palestinian Authority. The basis for this interpellation is the statement made by President Abbas of the Palestinian Authority in his line speech on 1 May in the Palestinian National Council, which has not been gathered for ten years. Now he would hold his line speech and explain his orientation. What he said was, why did this happen? He was referring to the Holocaust. Well, he said, hostility to Jews was not due to their religious identity but to their social function in society, which is associated with usury and banking. This is exactly what is anti-Semitism. It is said that the persecution and the Holocaust are due to the Jews themselves. The Secretary of State's Cabinet Secretary Annika Söder was there and listened to the speech. Maybe it's not surprising that she was there. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has called Abbas's party, Fatah, the dear sister party of the Social Democrats. Then came a so-called apology. What Abbas then said was: If anyone has been insulted, I apologize. But he hasn't apologized for what he said. We also need to put this in context. Abbas had a doctorate on denial of the Holocaust. It's not the first time he's said things like this. Then it is very important to see that this is just the tip of an iceberg. On the Palestinian Authority channel, children are taught that Jews are pigs and dogs. In the books of Palestinian schools, Israel is not on the map. This is the new type of anti-Semitism: Israel does not exist, and the Jews do not have the right to their country. On the Palestinian Authority's Facebook page and Twitter, violence against civilian Jews is encouraged. Only in 2016 was identified on Fatah's official Facebook page over 130 posts as glorified terrorism. It is also the case that numerous schools are named after terrorists and also sporting events after suicide bombers. There's a book I got in my hand yesterday. This is the 2017 new edition of the Textbook for Palestinian children in the fifth grade to learn Arabic. It's a big chapter about Dalal Mughrabi, so if is a person who killed 3 7 civilian Jews. Now the question is: is it not reasonable for the government to ensure that we get transparency and that taxpayers know what all the tax money for the Palestinian Authority is spent?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-119	Mrs. Old President! As I mentioned earlier, I have made it clear that President Abbas' comments in his speech at the PNC on 30 April were unacceptable. Abbas has apologized. He has made clear his attitude toward Judaism and to the F.E. as the worst crime in human history. That excuse was important because political leaders have a special responsibility to choose their words. Perhaps one could have hoped that a Christian Democrat would also say something about what has happened and the recent developments on the ground. Perhaps it had been hoped that someone who is believed to be a humanist and to fight for human rights would have something to say about over 60 people being shot dead on 14 May. Now the death toll is over a hundred, and among them are children and journalists. Thousands of people were injured in the demonstrations in the Gaza-Israel border area. I believe that the Israeli forces have a responsibility to show restraint in the use of deadly force even when there are unacceptable provocations from Hamas. This is the result of the clashes that took place at the time. Perhaps one could once say that it was terrible and express some kind of compassion for people who had to put their lives to death.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-122	Mrs. Old President! I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs left half his speaking time without using it. I find that very regrettable, given that I had such important questions. There is still time to comment on how the Palestinian Authority acts. It's very interesting. I know that in the gallery is also Israel's ambassador in Sweden. I know that people from all over the world are interested to hear the Foreign Minister's views on where the money goes. There is a report published in Aftonbladet on 11 May that shows how Swedish tax money has been used for the wrong purpose for a long time. For example, the newspaper's analysis shows that the Red-Green Government, through the Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law Secretariat, provides large amounts to more or less transparent anti-Semitic organisations, and some of them with links to terror-stampled PFLP. There is no doubt that the Palestinian population and, not least, that of Gaza are living in extremely difficult circumstances. But taxpayers' money should never go towards spreading anti-Semitism and supporting terrorism. That should be obvious. It is also a terrible corruption in Palestinian rule. The cement given there to build houses in Gaza is regularly used to make tunnels. I myself visited the border with Gaza a few years ago. It's only a few hundred meters to the wall. It's got thousands of coats on it. Every night the children get to sleep in shelters. Around the bathing area and around there are shelters, because you only have five seconds. You get thousands of coats over you. Now, very recently, tunnels have been discovered again, where they want to get to the Israeli side and take hostages. What is so tragic is that the Secretary of State and the government you represent have chosen to have contact only with one side. It is tragic to see that Sweden is the only country in the EU whose Foreign Minister is not welcome to Israel. It's so tragic. This depends on the actions of the Swedish Government. This applies, for example, to the UNESCO vote which removed the link between the Jews and Jerusalem. It has upset Jews all over the world. We were the only country to vote in favour of it. Sweden is also, as you know, the only country that has voted in favour of the recognition of the Palestinian State. That was something that should have happened in negotiations. That is what other countries think. But Sweden ran ahead and gave it without negotiations to the Palestinian Authority. It is so tragic to see what has happened with relations that we had historically seen. Sweden was one of the countries that pushed to bring Israel into being at one time and was very supportive of Israel. Now it is so tragic to see that the Swedish Government is blacking out Israel and does not see that the money given to the Palestinian Authority is going wrong.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-133	Mrs. Old President! I noticed that there was not a word of solidarity or compassion about one of the most spectacular and tragic events we have had in the Middle East recently. It was not a word of compassion from Christian Democrat Mikael Oscarsson. I reply repeatedly to all the questions in this Parliament, and I have nothing against doing so today either. First of all, no Swedish aid goes directly to the Palestinian Authority's budget. It is channelled through international organisations such as the World Bank and the United Nations, and this is done in accordance with the regulations of these organisations. We constantly point out in our contacts with the Palestinians precisely the need to ensure that corruption is combated. Of course, it is also true in Israel that corruption must be constantly combated. It is also important to combat what can be perceived as sedition or a language that is provocative. It goes without saying that it is incredibly important in a situation that is very tense and that has also deteriorated. We continue with our aid to Palestine because it has a overriding purpose to contribute to a democratic, independent, coherent and viable Palestine that can exist side by side with Israel in peace and security. In the implementation of the aid, we are calling for good control and respect for human rights, anti-corruption measures, gender equality work and continued reform efforts. When we hear reports of irregularities, we will deal with it immediately. It goes without saying that we should not give money or support to organisations that engage in things that we are absolutely against or that express anti-Semitic views, and we have taken the necessary steps. Sweden's development cooperation with Palestine has been going on for a long time. This has happened with all the governments in recent decades. It is that we want to assist the Palestinian people in democratic state-building with the aim of bringing about a two-state solution. A well-functioning Palestinian authority is a prerequisite for this. This involves democratic progress, combating corruption, rejecting violence, respect for human rights and also increasing the influence of women and civil society. The important role will continue to be played by our Swedish aid. We should be clear that the road to peace is through democracy and respect for human rights. We continue to have our hand extended also to Israel. Of course we must have contact with both, and so do we. We have diplomatic relations, and we have an ongoing dialogue. It is clear that we knew that our recognition would have reactions, and we often feel that we have been used as a deterrent on the part of Israel. It is not so much that we do not want contact, but we want the dialogue and cooperation that also takes place in many areas. So this has not affected the rest of our trade or our contacts, but this is a political statement which is, of course, unfortunate. Together with the more than 100 countries that have recognised Palestine, we continue to ensure that we can work more effectively for a two-state solution. That is where we must come, with demands on both sides, of course, to try to contribute to this. I'll give you one more chance, Mikael Oscarsson!
i-892823c3b1c4e577-144	Mrs. Old President! It is tragic that the Foreign Minister does not use the time to take this on board. We are not talking about an ancient history in the Palestinian school books where terrorism is glorified. The new example I have received shows that the new school books still highlight Mugabe as a positive example when learning Arabic. Terrorism is glorified. It's the same woman who killed 37 civilians who've been allowed to name a women's center. Since then, many countries have been impressed. Norway, Denmark and other countries have more and more begun to check where the money goes. When you give the money to different organizations, as Aftonbladet shows, it may go even more wrong and get even worse. It is a major problem that the Palestinian Authority spends so much money on paying terrorists and suicide bombers. In 2017, more than SEK 22.5 billion was allocated for the purpose. So it's a lot of money that's spent. It is sad when Sweden, which is such a large contributor, could instead face counter-claims. This is a sister party. This is something that should really be close to your heart: Make sure to remove the hate propaganda! We know, for example, from Northern Ireland and other countries that if you are going anywhere in the peace process, you have to remove the hate propaganda from school books. It is very important for a new government to re-establish contact with Israel. Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East, and Sweden should have a good relationship with the country.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-148	Mrs. Old President! Of course we do – we control and react to this type of material or when we see that there is an encouragement to violence. We react and say no, and we will continue to do so. If money goes to such ends, we also make sure that it is withdrawn or allowed to take the consequences of it in other ways. It goes without saying that we do so; we constantly have such control. But it is wrongly described. There is no money going directly to the Palestinian Authority; we channel most of the work through the UN, the EU or international organisations. It should be done according to their regulations. Of course we do so, and in all our contacts this is an important element. Precisely through our recognition, we have also taken on a responsibility to engage fully with the Palestinians in the work. I also believe that there is, of course, a responsibility on both sides. I don't know what it looks like in some textbooks on the other side. What do you say? What do the maps look like there? I know how important the maps are in the Middle East. It is important to point out that there is a responsibility in both directions to get to know each other. Some of our most important projects have been about ensuring that young people, both Israelis and Palestinians, can meet. It is not natural today; many have never met a Palestinians or an Israeli on the other side. This is something that can build peace and eventually opportunities for a two-state solution. Again: Not a word from Mikael Oscarsson about what happened in Gaza. It's terrible.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-154	Mrs. Old President! Erik Slottner has asked me whether I intend to take any initiative to change the legislation on sanctions against young criminals and whether I intend to work for proposals to introduce the two new sanctions proposed in the New Youth Sanctions letter. Erik Slottner has also asked me whether I intend to take any initiative in my area of responsibility to change the legislation on measures under the Social Services Act against the group for 15 years who commit crimes. Furthermore, Ellen Juntti has asked me whether I intend to deal with the proposals for stricter youth sanctions at such a pace that the government will be able to make proposals before the end of the parliamentary year. As I mentioned in my answer to Ellen Junttis parliamentary question on youth sanctions some time ago, the Sanctions Investigation in its 2012 report proposed the introduction of new sanctions for young people. Unfortunately, the bourgeois government did not take any steps to proceed with the proposals. Since the opinion of the investigation, some of the conditions for these have changed. There was thus a need to complete the dossier. I therefore commissioned an investigator in December 2016 to complete the assessments and proposals submitted by the Sanctions Investigation. The investigator reported his commission in June last year in the memo New Youth Sanctions(Ds 2017:25). The memo proposes two new sanctions for young people: youth monitoring and youth supervision. The proposal on youth monitoring with measures to keep young people away from places of drugs and crime on weekends and evenings is particularly interesting to me. The penalty includes clear restrictions on the young person's freedom of movement – as a starting point in the form of so-called "holiday home arrest". Unlike the Sanctions Committee's proposal, the movement-limited elements are, in principle, always checked with electronic monitoring. The Government of the State Institution is proposed in the memorandum to be the principal of the sentence. The memorandum has been consulted. The proposal on youth supervision has had a mixed consultation outcome. Several of the consultative bodies are questioning the need to impose such a new penalty. Overall, the proposal on youth monitoring has been well received. Some of the consultation bodies, however, question the choice of the principal of the sentence and wonder whether it would not be better, for reasons of resources, for example, that the head of the criminal service should be appointed. Both the issue of headship and other issues linked to the introduction of new sanctions require careful consideration. Early efforts to combat future crime in children at risk are important in terms of prevention. The municipalities are responsible for the social care of children and young people, and the Social Welfare Board can, by deciding on care under LVU, take care of young people who expose their health or development to a significant risk of being harmed by criminal activities. It is urgent that children and young people who need care to get away from crime and drugs should also be given such care. Some of these young people need to be under special supervision in order for care to be provided, and for them there is Sis' special youth home. For a long time there has been a high demand and lack of space in the special youth homes, especially in the case of lockable places for boys. The Government has therefore, during its term of office, provided the National Board of Institutional Affairs with significant funds to increase the number of care places to ensure that the municipalities have the opportunity to place these young people. For the government, it is clear that both society and the judiciary must react when young people commit crimes. It is important that the existing legislation in this area is effective and effective. It is also important that we have clear and consistent youth sanctions that can help prevent young people from continuing to commit crimes. I follow the work of the judicial authorities with young people and am open to returning to these issues if it is found that there are shortcomings in and in the application of the current legislation. As I have announced before, we are preparing, at a high pace, proposals for new youth sanctions within the Government Office.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-165	Mrs. Old President! I have put the interpellation to Morgan Johansson because of the great concern I feel about the escalating violence in some of the suburbs of our country in general and over young offenders in particular. With young offenders, I mean those who are over 15 years of age and who are thus of criminal age, and those who are under 15 years of age and who are not of criminal age. Crime is creeping further and further down in the ages. Children who are at an age when you still play with toys, jump pasture and jump rope and are so dependent on adults can at the same age be drug dealers or spread insecurity and fear in a whole neighborhood. In some cases, children are not allowed to be children, but instead they are taken care of and raised by professional criteria, so that once they become professionals themselves, i.e. if they are lucky enough to even grow up. Crime often starts on a smaller scale with, for example, shoplifting, fighting or illegal moped driving and then gets worse. Non-criminals act as torpedoes by carrying out the crimes on behalf of adults. In this way, adults avoid punishment. For every crime that society waits to give a response to, the risk of developing a criminal lifestyle also increases. Among other things, it is important that the reaction on the part of society does not wait and that all crime has consequences, what we sometimes call zero tolerance to crime. My picture is that the reaction is often too little and too late. The powers of the judicial system and social authorities are too small. How many times has one not heard a career criteria say, if someone had just reacted in time, I would not have been where I am today? If the children are under 15 years of age, it is a matter of social services, and then it is either a support call or care. But I'm saying we need a step in between. The study on new youth sanctions proposes several measures, including so-called "holiday separation". It is in practice a kind of curfew at certain times. I think it is a very good and important measure. We must remove children and young people from the destructive environment that the street offers them, and then weekend separation is a good method. I am pleased that the Government, in its response to my interpellation, also supports that proposal. It is only a pity that it has been so late in the parliamentary term to prepare the matter. I would like to see something similar for children under the age of 15. If we can find ways to save these children, we have also laid a good foundation for a safer society in the future. But as things stand, I am terrified that new criminal gangs are being raised in several of our suburbs around the country. The Government says that certain measures are to be expected for children over 15 years of age who are of criminal age. But what else do we do for children under the age of 15 who are referring to the efforts of social services?
i-BxeYddubTqcUhQL5txfGwj	Mrs. Old President! Thanks for the answer, Morgan Johansson! I have put this interpellation because I take youth crime very seriously, especially now that it is starting to go down in age and get much rougher. It is very important that society and the judiciary react strongly and early in order for young offenders not to get caught in crime. Morgan Johansson's answer is a standard answer. Unfortunately, the bourgeois government did not take any action. That's not true. It was we who appointed, for example, the Sanctions Investigation. It is time for Morgan Johansson to stop blaming the previous government. Now he's been Minister of Justice for almost four years. It's time to start taking responsibility. He continues to say in his reply that in December 2016 he appointed an investigator to complement the proposals. Yes, he did. But it took two years and three months for him to set up the investigation. He had served as Minister of Justice for more than two years before he took hold of the matter. A year ago, the investigation came up with suggestions about this. But we have not seen any government proposal yet. Morgan Johansson says that he finds youth surveillance particularly interesting. So does the Alliance. It is over three years ago that we received an announcement to the government to make a proposal on this. But they have not made any proposals. It is not enough just to be interested, but to act and make proposals as well. I believe that the government has not done so. The police often feel powerless when it comes to criminals under the age of 18. For example, when a youth aged 17 is arrested for aggravated assault – someone has been kicked in the head and has been seriously injured – the police go in and arrest the youth. Then you're released. There is forced intervention, but it is used far too rarely. We Moderates want it to be used more often. However, more tools are needed. The police have repeatedly appealed for more tools. Because these kids are laughing at the justice system. I have worked as a detective for three years at the youth division in Gothenburg; it will be like nothing. The young people come — if they even come — for questioning. Then they say yes, yes, I can go to social services and talk a little. Then there's nothing more about it. We need tougher tools to deal with these juvenile delinquents. As it has taken this long, I believe that Morgan Johansson and the current government unfortunately do not take juvenile delinquency seriously. If the accident is in the autumn and Morgan Johansson is allowed to continue as Minister of Justice, I wonder how long it will take before there are new proposals on sanctions, including youth monitoring. We agree that this is a good proposal. For a long time it will take before it is presented? Morgan Johansson says in his reply that the government prepares the proposals for new, high-speed youth sanctions within the Government Office. I don't think four years is a fast pace.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-182	Mrs. Old President! I think we can all agree that we cannot allow children to grow up in criminal families without action. On the contrary, society must be able to intervene very firmly with early intervention and have the tools needed to interrupt such development. Instead, if we do not, we risk bringing up a new generation of criminals. That's where I think we're on the same page. I was possibly unfair in a way when I said that the bourgeois government did nothing during its years. One thing you did. It abolished the special money available for LVU management, which I had been involved in introducing when I was Minister of Social Services. We set aside special money, special resources, to subsidise LVU dealings. LVU, the law on the care of young people, is used, among other things, to take care of children and young people who are entering crime. D municipalities often have to take on a large cost, and following the major reforms I introduced was going in with government money to make it easier for municipalities to do that. It was abolished. In 2008, all that money was gone. Instead, the money was spent on tax cuts. So they did. A penalty investigation was also set up. That is absolutely correct. It made its proposals in 2012, and that year the alliance government did nothing. In 2013, the alliance government did nothing with those proposals. In 2014, the alliance government did nothing with those proposals. You just let the investigation lie. When we took office, we saw that a great deal had happened over those years and that the proposals had to be updated. That is why I had a new investigation set up, to make the very updates needed to get a basis that can be used to get a good legislation and a good system. What I am saying today is that we are prepared to move forward in this part, including on the issue of weekend separation or weekend detention. There we also go one step further than what the bourgeois penalty investigation did. In fact, we see that the main rule should be monitoring with a anklet, that is to say, electronic monitoring. It is part of the proposal that is now in place. What remains to be done is to discuss it more technically. Who's supposed to be in charge of this? Is it the State Department Board or is it the Prison Service? The proposal has been the State Department Board, but I see several problems with it. I am rather inclined to think that it should be the Prison Service that deals with the supervision, because you have the habit and skills that are needed. We will, of course, come forward with that proposal when it is ready. I look forward to being able to do so in the autumn, so that the new penalty will come into place. In conclusion, the Alliance misbehaved the LVU dealings. They took away the money that was there in the first place. The number of Sis sites was not expanded either. We have done so during this parliamentary term. We have already expanded the LVU sites that Sis has at its disposal with another 100 seats. We will continue to expand the number of LVU sites. There is a plan for the State Department Board to continue the expansion until 2020 – 2021. We are prepared to set aside SEK 150 million a year to continue with it, for we see the need. My question to Ellen Juntti and Erik Slottner is: Can you guarantee that the expansion of Sis sites will become a reality if there is a bourgeois government in the autumn?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-194	Mrs. Old President! We should also be honest and say that the need and demand for Sis-sites and LVU-sites have increased during this term of office. Had the increased efforts not been made, it would have been a scandal. I find it extremely difficult to see that the efforts that have now been made would be withdrawn in the event of a change of government. As I have said, I believe that social services must have stronger tools, and then we do not draw into any resources. It varies a lot across the country. I would like to focus once again on the children under the age of 15 who commit crimes and who are referred to social services. It also varies a lot between municipalities, and it can also vary a lot within the same municipality. In Stockholm municipality, where I am politically active, the Järva field is much more restrictive with LVU placement of children and young people than it is at Östermalm, for example. Thresholds are higher. Social services tolerate more in some neighborhoods than in other neighborhoods, and it is not good when that is the case. In Bromma in western Stockholm, a bunch of young people have driven around one of the squares and created insecurity. They've gone into the local Press Office, they've stolen and they've destroyed the decor. But nothing has happened. The staff sounded the alarm. The situation lasted a few months. In the end, there was a field assistant, but more than that, the council doesn't. For me, it is incredible how a society can fail the residents of the district and, above all, the young people in this way. Whether these young people are over or under 15 years of age, something must happen. Drifting around a square and engaging in petty crimes with an adult world just watching must never be an option. In a conversation with a police officer in a suburb of southern Stockholm, the police said: The young people spit in our faces and laugh. That's how the police felt they were being treated. There will be no consequences when a youth commits crimes, and they are fully aware of that. Respect for the police is more or less non-existent. In some neighborhoods, blue - light personnel find it difficult to do their work because of stoning or the formation of human shields. Many of those who take part in the riots are not even of criminal age. We're talking about little kids. It is shocking to hear these stories, and it is shocking to see this reality. Many times it is the parents who do not take the responsibility that they should take. Yet the family is the key to crime prevention. Parental support and other types of education have proven to be effective methods for parents to develop and take their parental role. A functioning family surpasses any other crime prevention work. I think it would be a good idea to give young children under the age of 15 some kind of holiday separation through social services. However, I am not really getting an answer from the Minister about what he thinks about such measures for children under the age of 15. Would such a separation be possible for children under the age of 15? For a 12- and 13-year-old, the streets are not an option. Here there can be an intermediate between support calls and LVU placement, which today is often the alternative for social services.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-203	Mrs. Old President! I can continue in the way Morgan Johansson did. The Social Democratic Government did nothing in 2014 in terms of sanctions for young people. It did not do anything in 2015 and in principle did not do anything in 2016. It was in December that the investigator was appointed. Morgan Johansson continues to blame himself, and then he squeezed in with the strongest argument: tax benches. It usually comes in every eternal debate. I'll give you a sample of what's happened in the last few weeks:
i-2cmQ8GVS5Y17BXGeE76vSN	Three 15-year-olds have been arrested for preparing for murder. Teenage gangs ravaged and spread fear in a suburb of Stockholm. There a man was beaten twice in less than a month. He got kicks in the head and in the neck. These are incredibly serious crimes. When you kick someone in the head, the person can die or be confined to a wheelchair and hurt himself seriously for life. Two youths under the age of 18 were to rob a tech company and were wearing masks and threatened with rifles. It's very serious. Imagine yourself if someone who is masked comes up to you at your workplace and ho brings rifles. Young people were arrested but released immediately, since they were under 18 years of age. A man trying to stop a fight was fired unconsciously. Two 16-year-olds were arrested there. As a 16-year-old, you can fire a man unconscious in the morning, be arrested at lunch and interrogated. Then it is released in the afternoon because of old age. So you can commit serious crimes, and then in the afternoon you can get loose in town and have coffee with your friends. That is simply unreasonable. They laugh at the Swedish judicial system. I take this very seriously. We keep talking about society reacting strongly and quickly. But here there will be no reaction at all. It's just terrible. We need more powerful tools to show these 16-year-olds that they can't commit aggravated assault in the morning and then go out to town in the afternoon and have coffee with their friends. More and more powerful tools are therefore needed. There's a lot of cops who've almost given up. Nothing is working on these young people. I also think that the youth surveillance during the weekends with the anklet seems very good. When's it coming? Finally: Is Morgan Johansson satisfied with two 16-year-olds being released in the afternoon when they have grossly assaulted innocent people in the morning?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-213	Mrs. Old President! We're going to have new sanctions, and we're working on it. We will make such a proposal. We will continue to expand the number of seats on the State Department Board exactly as we have done so far. We need new and better tools to intervene early. My criticism of the bourgeois is that when you are in opposition, you talk and talk. But once you come to power, nothing ever happens. You're not really doing anything. Perhaps you'll set up an investigation that will be left lying, and then nothing will happen. Or you could pull in the money that we've set aside. I pointed out the special funds available for LVU placements that I myself had to introduce during my previous period when I was Minister of Social Services. That's what you abolished. It's more like a backward trend. The government has begun to expand the number of seats within the National Board of Institutional Affairs. We are expanding with 100 seats, and we will continue. However, I did not receive a clear answer from either of you. Will you continue to expand the Sis sites? Or will you again allow tax cuts to take precedence? Because that's how it is when you're in charge. Tax cuts always seem to you to be the most important thing. Erik Slottner said that the need has increased. I would say that the need to make early efforts has been great for a very long time. It is primarily about social services. This is a priority for the government, and we will continue to give priority to social care for children and young people. But this once again requires resources, resources and resources. One cannot promise many billions in tax cuts in one breath and in the next say that at the same time we should increase public spending. It simply does not make sense, and that is your major problem in the debate. We will go forward with these proposals. But remember that this affects not only Järva but also other districts. I saw an interesting survey a month ago when young people in Stockholm County had been asked whether they were using drugs or not. Do Erik Slottner and Ellen Juntti know which municipality in Stockholm County that young people use most drugs? It's Danderyd. It may well be that you buy drugs in one of the vulnerable districts. But it may also be that it is the upper class that keeps the drug traffic going in Stockholm County. You can't just go through the supply of drugs. You're supposed to do that, aren't you? You're supposed to make it hard on camera surveillance and police presence. But demand must also be taken into account. The Moderates should ask themselves why it is precisely in the strongest municipality of Moderates throughout Sweden that the young people use the most drugs. Perhaps preventive measures should be included in some of these neighbourhoods and be prepared to discuss with parents, not least, why they allow this to continue. Reality is sometimes a little more complicated than some would like to sound suggestive. There's only one way to get out of this and keep coming after it. It is to ensure that both the crimes behind and the prevention of them are combated. A stronger social service, better tools and more early intervention aimed at young people who are in the process of being in trouble are needed to cope with preventive work.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-221	Mrs. Old President! I note that the Minister does not answer questions either. I asked a question about those under 15 who are involved in crime. Sometimes, in fact, it is quite serious crime. Is the Minister prepared to take further action against the group of 15 years of age involved in crime which is likely to develop a criminal lifestyle? Would weekend separation – curfew – for the group under 15 years of age be an option? I'm interested in hearing about that. Morgan Johansson then starts with the eternal bite about tax cuts. It is true that the Alliance reduced the tax on working people, and yet we increased resources for, among other things, the judiciary and large parts of welfare. I'm proud of that. What is interesting is that the Social Democrats are always voting against every tax cut in opposition, but then they are far from taking away any tax cuts once they have reached the majority. Then they think that the job tax deductions and many other tax reductions were, after all, quite good. It is not increased taxes that create resources for welfare, but it is labour and increased growth that create these resources. This should also be the case in the future. I know young people in Danderyd top the list of drug use. That's it, and it's terrible. But violence is not widespread in Danderyd. Nor is insecurity, death shootings, gang formation or stoning against bluelight personnel most widespread in Danderyd. This is happening in many of the suburban areas. This is where violence and insecurity are growing, and in some neighborhoods over half of the population are worried about being in streets and squares. Some of those who cause this concern are under 15 years of age. The government must do more for that group.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-226	Mrs. Old President! Morgan Johansson continues to say that the Alliance did nothing, which is completely wrong. Most people understand that. On the other hand, I agree with him that prevention is something extremely important. The best crime is what never happens. We in the Moderates have presented many proposals for measures for socially vulnerable children. It is about preschool and health care, for example preventing mental illness. It is also a question of young people who commit serious crimes being taken over by the prison services from the social services. We believe that the penal services have better conditions and knowledge of this. As far as tax money is concerned, I can only mention that yesterday we Moderates voted against the Social Democrats' proposal that 9 000 unaccompanied adult men should be allowed to stay in Sweden. The proposal costs 3 billion. It will probably cost even more before they get to work. There you can talk about tax money being wasted. It's good that Sis is being expanded. The Moderates have a suggestion that more young people should be taken care of, and then you need money. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the debate. It will probably be our last for this period, and without being mean there will hopefully not be more this autumn either. I hope that this autumn it will be a moderate Minister of Justice. I wish Morgan Johansson and everyone else a nice summer!
i-892823c3b1c4e577-231	Mrs. Old President! As I said, we will continue to expand the seats of the National Board of Institutional Affairs. We are prepared to allocate increased funds for this: 150 million a year in the future. Although I do not have a very good answer to that, I assume that any other government will do the same, so that we do not start saving again in this area. That is exactly what the alliance government did when it took office last time. Then they brought in the money we had set aside. Erik Slottner asks me about further efforts for those under the age of 15. We have the LVU legislation. That's what we're gonna use. Do I want to put a anklet on ten-year-olds, which would be a consequence of this? No, I don't. Do I want to put children in jail, which is the Moderate proposal? No, I don't want that either. I want there to be special measures for children and young people, because there should be a system so that they are not trained in crime. Such measures as you propose would dramatically increase the risk of this. We come back to the constant issue of resource allocation. It is about tax cuts versus social services and other efforts. You reduced the tax by 140 billion. To the police, you increased the funds by 5 billion in eight years. That says a lot about what the priorities were back then. We make other priorities. We make sure that we use the tax money available to strengthen social services. You have to work with both demand and supply. That's why I brought up Danderyd. No, the violence may not be the greatest in Danderyd, but such behavior means creating crime in other places because you buy the drugs that exist. This has to be addressed. I, too, wish you both a pleasant summer. I look forward to more interpellation debates in the autumn.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-237	Mrs. Old President! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to overcome the problems, such as human trafficking and street violence, which he claims arise in the wake of organised begging. He has also asked me whether I believe that today's legislation is inadequate and what measures I and the government intend to take to strengthen it. Finally, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me whether I intend to table a sharp proposal for a national begging ban during my term of office. The legal framework on the free movement of persons provides far-reaching rights for all EU citizens to enter and reside in other EU Member States. The Political Authority's situation picture of crime linked to vulnerable EU citizens assessed that most of the vulnerable EU citizens begging do so without this being linked to organised crime. There are, however, cases where some who beg are controlled by criminal actors and are victims of crime. It is totally unacceptable that people who are vulnerable due to poverty and discrimination should be exploited or subjected to crime when trying to acquire a livelihood. The government is concerned that people staying temporarily in Sweden will have to beg for their livelihood and that this group lives in unworthy conditions. Unauthorised settlements can also result in extensive litter and affect, among other things, landowners who are allowed to see their land taken up illegally. In the summer of 2015, the government presented a package of measures to combat vulnerability and begging. The measures presented included clearer rules in Sweden, international cooperation and close cooperation with civil society. In 2015, the Government appointed a national coordinator on issues related to vulnerable EU citizens. The county administration in Stockholm County was commissioned the following year to continue to develop cooperation and coordinate the work carried out in relation to the target group. The assignment has now been extended until 2019. Last year, the Government submitted to the Riksdag a bill proposing a new form of special handshake. The new rules on removal, which entered into force on 1 July 2017, have made it easier for landowners to regain possession of land where people reside without authorisation. The government will follow up the authorities' handling of illegal settlements, but there are already indications that the reform has had the intended effect. In March 2018, the Government submitted a bill to the Riksdag on criminal law protection against human trafficking and human exploitation. The new rules will enter into force on 1 July 2018 and will include a clearer description of the criminal offence, an even stronger protection for children and a reduction in the minimum penalty for human trafficking, less serious crimes, to prison for six months. In addition, a completely new crime, human exploitation, is introduced, which explicitly punishes the exploitation of persons in begging. The new crime provides for more serious criminal protection, for example, for those cases where people who live in economically difficult conditions are unduly induced to give up what they have asked for or pay for something that is actually free, such as a place to beg in the public sphere. On 8 February 2018, the Government decided on an action plan against prostitution and human trafficking, which also includes people exposed to human trafficking in the form of begging. The purpose of the action plan is to prevent and combat prostitution and human trafficking for all purposes and to contribute to better protection and support for people who are victims of human trafficking. As of 1 January 2018, the national commission on prostitution and human trafficking for sexual and other purposes that the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has previously had was made permanent by the assignment being transferred to the Swedish Agency for Gender Equality. It is a police task to maintain public order and to intervene, for example, when people behave disorderly, litter or commit crimes. The government is actively working to influence living conditions in the home countries to achieve long-term difference and sustainability and has signed memoranda of understanding with both Romania and Bulgaria. Cooperation has resulted in a very good climate for dialogue and strengthened bilateral relations. Overall, the government has taken a series of measures to combat vulnerability, to strengthen criminal law against trafficking in human beings and exploitation, and to facilitate action by the police and other authorities against the crime associated with the begging.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-248	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When we talk about begging, it's very easy to get stuck in a kind of cynicism – to feel the first feeling that the begging is going away and then kind of get stuck there and never get to the slightly longer reasoning. I would therefore like to start this debate by saying that it is a pity for these people who live in unworthy or, more accurately, unspeakable conditions. We know that Roma in Romania are oppressed by their own government and that children of Roma families are forced into special classes even though they do not need it. Among those who are begging in Sweden we know that there are strong patriarchal structures in the families and families, which we find quite strange when we look at them with Swedish eyes. Add to that that different families and groups compete for territories in order to beg, causing some violence as a result. While you know that it is a pity for these people who live in an extremely vulnerable situation, you must see that this is not a normal situation. In Stockholm County, where we are right now, everyone who works with, for example, park cleaning needs to carry assault alarms because you are afraid of being attacked, something that has occurred just a few kilometers from here. As politicians, we can also be honest that the fact that people are on their knees begging for their living is something that we have left behind. Poor Sweden was something we left behind quite a long time ago. The Minister knows that, because his party was very involved in that work. Mrs. Old President! As the Minister mentions in his interpellation response, many small things have been done that can be baked together into different packages. The strategy seems to be that the Swedish authorities and the Swedish bureaucracy should make it as difficult as possible to beg and somehow grind down the phenomenon in the Swedish way rather than ban begging across the board. If we look at the Swedish Enforcement Authority's new procedure, which we got in place last year, it is clear that it was already illegal to settle on someone else's land. With regard to the cooperation agreements with Bulgaria and Romania, the minister responsible has said in the past that it is difficult to say whether it has actually produced any effect at all. It may have led to a better climate for conversation, and that may be something in itself, but seen to the begging in Sweden the effects are small or none. So now we have been working on the strategy of trying to grind it down and make it difficult to beg through various regulatory changes and minor legislative changes. At the same time, it looks the same now as it did a few years ago. We have not come much further, and then the question is whether we should not look at new ways to try to curb this. As the Prime Minister has said that the begging must stop and that it should go away, there is reason to ask the Minister who is here today if he does not see that it is time for a round-up or reconsideration. With the current system, we seem to be mostly drawing on the problem rather than facing it at its roots.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-256	Mrs. Old President! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is right, of course, that what you need in the countries we are talking about is a social democratic welfare policy. After all, it was the Social Democratic welfare policy that brought these fundamental problems to an end that we had in Sweden. That is what led us once – I think it was 1965 – to abolish vagrancy and begging legislation. There was simply no longer any need for it, because then we had a modern social service and a modern social security system that covered everyone. We had narrowed the gaps in such a way that this legislation was no longer needed. A social-democratic welfare policy is simply the long-term solution both in Bulgaria and in Romania and in other countries we are talking about, and of course we can wish for that. I have just recently invited my Bulgarian colleague, the Minister for the Interior, to talk about how we can further improve relations between our countries in order to tackle this problem and the basic problem in Bulgaria. But as long as it is not in place, we must also ensure that the problem we have here is reduced and reduced. I can only say that the begging was something that had been going on for many, many years when we took office and which the then alliance government had not done much about. When we took office there was a large camp at Sorgenfri in Malmö with hundreds of individuals who had lived there for several years. No one had bothered to do anything, least of all the then government. Every two weeks there were televisions about how people lived in huts in the woods, and then they begged during the day. No one would have bothered to look at the eviction rules under the then government. Those are things we've fixed. The grief-free camp has been demolished for a long time. It doesn't exist anymore. There are new rules for eviction. When the alliance government ruled, the fee for a landowner who wanted to get a person evicted from the land was SEK 600 per individual. In addition, the landowner had to find out the identity of the person who would be evicted, which was completely impossible. There are new rules in place. This has meant that there has probably been a reduction in these problems. When you see that someone has settled on your land, you can go to the bailiff and request execution of an eviction. We are now seeing how these cases have been reduced. This is a decrease of 30 per cent from 2016 to 2017. This suggests that fewer people now do just that, i.e. occupy someone else's land. This is because there is another piece of legislation in place. Then there should be a number of prosecutions of all the other crimes that may be involved. In December 2017, a sentence came against two Bulgarians for aggravated assault and kidnapping. There were long prison sentences of five years and four and a half years respectively. In May 2018, just a month ago, two more Bulgarians were sentenced in Falun for forcing their child to beg. They were sentenced to one year and eight months in prison. In Gothenburg, a Bulgarian was sentenced in January to a long prison sentence, three years and six months, for trafficking in human beings. There are a number of judgments that still increase pressure and make clear what you can and must not do. Then we move on, Madam President, with another law that comes into force on 1 July 2018, namely the crime of human exploitation. It will also be effective.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-262	Mrs. Old President! It is nice that Minister Johansson wants to mission in the world and introduce a social democratic policy throughout the European Union, but the truth is that we need to address the problems that are here. We may need to save Sweden first before we missionary with our fine models in other countries. It is perhaps better if we get a sustainable solution against the begging in Sweden before we try to explain to others what to do. Mrs. Old President! With regard to the proposal which is still on the table for a national ban on begging, I would like to say that this is not a self-evident solution. It is not obvious that a national begging ban is the whole solution. It's like someone jokingly says, "Do you remember when we banned the drugs and all the drugs went missing?" That's not really the case. It is clear that other things need to be done as well, but it is perfectly reasonable that the government, if you want to make great social contributions for the group, will also agree across the block border on how to do both that and ban begging. As I said, there is compact support for this both in the Swedish parliament and in the Swedish people. The government also needs to think about what has actually worked. At the moment, many in the media are talking about how the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats are doing in public opinion. Without making a major statement about the Statistical Central Bureau, it is a little bit with the Swedish Democrats that it is with the begging, namely that first try to silence them, then try to ignore them, but none of it seems to work. Then you have to look at what you can do instead. If the begging is going to go away, you have to do something. The government has said that it wants the begging to go away, and it has been said that it does not belong in Sweden. But then you need to present a strategy for how it will happen. There are very effective policies that can be implemented before a ban needs to be imposed. Take, for example, the roblem with cancelled cars. In Stockholm County and elsewhere, many people who work with begging and other related activities drive around in cars that are cancelled. Those cars are then seized by the police. This also applies in many of these camps where the beggars live. The only problem is that the police have to store the cars before they get a decision to destroy them. It will be a huge bottleneck, because the parking lots at the police are running out. For example, it would be better if the police could decide for themselves whether a car lacks significant value and destroy them according to their own liking. It is such a responsibility that we can impose on the Police Authority without having to worry. It is a question of setting a limit, and then that procedure can go much faster. We have read in the newspapers and in other media that there are car keepers who have hundreds of cars written on them. It is not that there is a shortage of these cars for those begging and engaging in nearby things. Mrs. Old President! I also want to be honest about the fact that in many respects what disturbs and destroys is actually already illegal. It is illegal to live on someone else's land, and it is illegal to drive around in deposed cars. It is illegal to stay in another EU country for far too long, and so on. More policemen with better resources are a big solution to that group, but I think you need to address the begging as well. It is the activity that is the common denominator for many of the groups. Whether it is people from Romania or Bulgaria, or whether it is Roma or whatever, begging is the common denominator. Sooner or later, we'll need to address the begging as well.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-269	Mrs. Old President! It was Jesper Skalberg Karlsson who noted that it was Social Democratic welfare policy that once ensured that the problems decreased dramatically in Sweden. We created social security systems, a social service and a modern system to ensure that the problems are solved. As a result, domestic begging in Sweden was greatly reduced. I myself grew up in a society where you almost never saw any beggars, precisely because the Social Democratic welfare policy had worked so well. The problem has arisen since Romania and Bulgaria, in particular, joined the EU. Without wishing to be a missionary, I can surely point out to the countries where the problem is that if you want to tackle the problem properly, it is a matter of pursuing policies that reduce inequalities, increase equality, build social systems that embrace and include everyone – and, of course, tackle discrimination. It is such a dialogue that must be able to take place between different countries. I mentioned the measures we had taken. The grief-free camp is long gone. It was there when I took office as Minister of Justice, and nobody had done anything under the Reinfeldt government. There were still very complicated rules for eviction. In practice, that legislation could not be applied. We've done something about that. We are now seeing a reduction in the number of cases entering the eviction sections. This indicates that that part of the problem has been reduced. Now there are very clear and clear sentences with long prison sentences for those who have used people in the vulnerable position in various ways. They have been convicted of kidnapping, trafficking in human beings and many other serious crimes just in the past year. We are talking about multi-annual prison sentences. It sends an important signal to those who may be involved in this type of organisation. The police are now investigating the crimes and getting to them, and there can be long prison sentences. Then the individuals, I think, should not primarily serve their sentences in Sweden. This is not where they are to be rehabilitated, but they are to serve their sentences in the home countries – in Bulgaria or in Romania or whatever country we are talking about. There is another process under way with the countries to ensure that there is an easier transfer of criminal penalties. We also go along with the further crime that the Riksdag has just decided on. On 1 July this year a new crime, human exploitation, will be introduced. The serious crime of human exploitation has a penalty scale of between two years and ten years in prison. In practice, it is forbidden to make money from someone else's begging, and it is especially severe in the case of children. It is another step in reducing the problems. Last of all, Madam President, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson raises the issue of the police initiative. It is, of course, large and extensive. We are training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did during their time, and in the coming years we will see the number of police employees growing. There will be 10,000 more employees by 2024.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-277	Mrs. Old President! The Minister mentions Malmö as an example. However, I would like to recall that in Malmö, the Minister's party colleagues have been paying grants for a long time to people who have expulsion decisions, some of whom lived in the camp as mentioned. In addition, several Members from the current government bases protested when the eviction of the Sorgen-free camp was carried out, so it is clear that there are also things in the Minister's own political camp that suggest that the image is not exactly that given by the Minister in this House. When it comes to camps and settling on other people's land, just look out the window. There are blue skies in Stockholm; it is over 20 degrees. It is no wonder that many of these people simply sleep in Stockholm's parks during the summer. This is also why it is much easier for those who bring people here who will beg to get larger groups here during the summer. You don't have to live in a trailer. You can live anywhere. And then it's not on private land, it's on the municipality's land and in the parks. Mrs. Old President! Is the Minister of the Interior willing and able to make policies on this issue and introduce more effective reforms? They can certainly be legally difficult, but there is support from both the parliamentary parties and the Swedish people to do so. We do not have to ban begging at national level, even though I believe that we will end up there regardless of the situation and that the Social Democrats will be part of that agreement. In addition to begging, we need to solve human trafficking, drug trafficking and pickpocketing. But sooner or later, the begging must be addressed. The government has said that it should go away but not present anything that actually gets it off the streets.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-281	Mrs. Old President! I refer to the measures we have taken. The eviction rules, which looked completely different when we took office, are now simplified. It is also much cheaper for the landowner to make use of that legislation. The new law on human exploitation has not even entered into force, so Jesper Skalberg Karlsson might wait a little before he starts proposing further measures. After all, we have not even seen how the legislation that is now coming into force works. For the first time, we have a number of judgments. Neither did we a few years ago. It shows that the police get to the bottom of these crimes, investigate them in a good way and get convictions. Part of the reason why the number of evictions is reduced is reported to be that the police are now using the Police Act to a much greater extent to ensure that people are not sleeping in places where they are not allowed to sleep. This can be done when it comes to public land, such as the parks to which Jesper Skalberg Karlsson refers. It's just good, I think, that the police are much more active now than they were a few years ago. We may have to take further action. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson raised the issues of car scaffolding and car goalkeepers. My colleague Tomas Eneroth has set up an investigation to review the entire regulatory framework. It is unreasonable to have hundreds of cars or thousands of cars written on an individual. It invites you to all forms of abuse. But also there we see, not least in cities such as Malmö and Uppsala, that the police are much more actively using the new legislation to remove these cars from the streets and actually also sell or scrap the ones they take care of. But I'm sure there's a lot more to do there too, Madam President.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-287	Mrs. Old President! Kristina Yngwe has asked me what I and the government have done on the occasion of the 2015 Riksdag's announcement to prioritise the work against animal law-related crime and what measures I and the government intend to take to combat animal law-related crime. In addition, Magnus Oscarsson has asked me how many police officers are added to the countryside in 2018, and whether the government intends to provide searchers with the same legal protection as, for example, police and security officers and whether crimes committed against searchers would thus be classified as crimes against civil servants. Finally, Magnus Oscarsson has asked whether the government intends to commission the police to specifically work against animal-right-motivated crime. As I have said before in several contexts in this House, no person in a democratic society has the right to destroy or steal someone else's property or, at worst, to harm other people for political purposes. The people who commit these crimes also jeopardise the purposeful work for the strengthening of animal welfare that serious organisations and farmers work for. During the month of May, I met with the National Association of Farmers to discuss this issue, and they described the picture of problems experienced by their members. After that, I have also raised the issue with both the Police Authority and the Security Service. The police authority acts together with the Swedish Security Service against those who subject, for example, farmers and traders to crime. The actions take place, among other things, within the framework of what the police call criminalist domestic extremism. When crimes are committed and reported, the police take the necessary measures to investigate the crime and prosecute the guilty. Effective law enforcement requires resources. The government has therefore proposed and announced a historic investment in the Police Authority. This investment will, of course, benefit the whole country. The police authorities must be able to maintain their activities throughout the country, in both urban and rural areas. How the police choose to organise themselves and what kind of crime is to be investigated by whom, on the other hand, must be up to the authority to decide on. The government has put forward a number of proposals for new legislation that are relevant in this context. This is, for example, a new camera surveillance team, where today's general permit requirement for camera surveillance is abolished. On 1 January this year, legislative changes came into force that provide better protection against, for example, online harassment, and last July the minimum penalty for gross illegal threats was increased. The Government has also made proposals for changes to the penal provision on illegal threats. The announcement referred to by Kristina Yngwe has been deemed to have been finalised. Following the announcement, the Ministry of Justice collected and compiled information from the Police Authority. In addition, the matter was raised with both the Head of the National Police and the Head of the Security Service. In 2017, the Government announced to the Riksdag that it intended to include the letter in this section, which the Riksdag did not object at the time. Subsequently, in a report as late as 30 May 2018, the Constitutional Committee has decided that, after all, it does not share the government's assessment that the matter should be considered as closed. The government will therefore return to Parliament in this part. The Government has taken a number of measures to ensure that the type of crime to which farmers, among others, are exposed is effectively dealt with by the judiciary in terms of both legislation and resources. Traders must, of course, be able to carry out their activities without being exposed to threats, harassment, vandalism or even more serious crimes.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-295	Mrs. Old President! Thank you very much, Minister. Imagine that one morning you and your children will wake up to the neighborhood being wallpapered with a picture of you with the text. That someone printed the scum in red all over your garage driveway. That your sister finds a tombstone from your family grave in her garden with the greeting that next time it's your turn. That your children call on a Saturday night when they are alone at home and with terrified voices screaming that there are masked people outside banging on doors and windows. That you receive messages online that your daughter should be raped. That your car will break down and merge. That your name and number are hung online along with threatening calls. That you suddenly see a picture of Instagram with a skeleton in a noose and a note with your name attached to the skeleton. All of these are authentic examples of things that have affected entrepreneurs, employees, hunters, government officials and others in the name of animal rights in recent years. This is not a new question. For decades this has been the everyday life of entrepreneurs and employees in the fur industry in particular. However, in recent years it has escalated and also expanded to include all the productive animal activities in agriculture, as well as riding schools, research facilities, authorities and hunters. In April the issue also escalated publicly. In the past, it had been dealt with almost exclusively in industry press, but now DN, Expressen and local newspapers in all parts of the country wrote about the issue and the problem. Radio and television interviewed affected farmers, and even the government seemed to wake up. The Minister for Rural Development was rightly appalled by the threats and harassment he heard of when he met with the LRF and affected farmers. Morgan Johansson also invited for talks and had to listen, for example, from the reality of what farmers in the country are actually affected by. I think it is very positive that the government sees the seriousness of this issue, but at the same time I can be a little frustrated that a problem that has been up to date for a long time is only now being taken seriously by the government. In one of the first motions I presented when I entered the Riksdag, I highlighted the problem of threats, harassment and animal rights-related crime. As the Minister said, this motion was approved in the spring of 2015, along with another motion on the same subject. The Swedish Parliament commissioned the government to prioritise work on animal rights-related crime. But despite the fact that both I and other members of Parliament in this House have regularly raised this problem, not so much has happened. In November 2017, just a few months after the threats and harassment have increased since the release of a leader figure from these groups from prison, the government decided to consider that the announcement was completed, as the Minister said earlier. The measures that the Minister says it has taken consist of collecting and compiling information from the Police Authority on these crimes and having had regular reporting between the Secretary of State and the Head of the National Police and the Head of the Security Police. At the same time, the problem has, as I have said, only become more and more widespread. Apparently, the Minister of Justice also does not consider the announcement to have been finalised, as the Minister himself says in his reply that he has raised the matter with both the Security Service and the Police Authority after meeting with the LRF in April. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what information the Minister has obtained through the talks and the evidence provided by the Police Authority and what action this information has prompted. What concrete effects has the government seen from the debriefing and the discussions that have been held with the Police and the Swedish Security Service, given that there are actually many affected entrepreneurs in the country who feel that the situation has rather worsened? The Parliament believes that the announcement is not completed because we still see a major problem with animal rights-related crime. I therefore wonder what action the Minister intends to take in the future.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-306	Mrs. Old President! The government's view is clear in these cases: We shall look strictly at this type of crime. The justice system is supposed to do it in general, the police are supposed to do it and the prosecutor is supposed to do it when you prosecute. We have also taken steps to extend the tools of the judiciary. If this is not done well, we risk not only continuing the unacceptable harassment described by Kristina Yngwe, but also taking the foundations of livelihood away for people who end up in situations where they simply do not dare to carry on their business. That is precisely why this is so serious. As Kristina Yngwe notes and as I also say in my reply, we have therefore raised the issue with both the Security Service and the police. Säpo and the police have been specifically tasked with combating politically motivated crimes. Then, of course, you look at the whole spectrum: right- and left-wing extremism and also Islamist extremism. I have received a presentation on this, and in this context we also addressed this type of politically motivated crime and how to work against them. I also met with the LRF just a few weeks ago to explain the measures we are taking. What, then, are the concrete measures that matter, other than the police making sure that these crimes are investigated? One thing is that we have changed the legislation in some ways. Camera surveillance can be a means to protect their property and farms and ensure that people simply do not dare to move forward, and that legislation has changed with the entry into force of the new General Data Protection Regulation. You no longer need permission in the same way as before. On 1 July, new legislation will also enter into force on the possibility of placing a anklet on a person who violates a restraining order. Anyone who persecutes people in this way may be subject to a restraining order against him. So now, from 1 July, it will also be possible to monitor this with the help of an electronic anklet. It's a new rule that's coming. We have tightened up legislation on online harassment; we did so from 1 January. Kristina Yngwe mentioned that this is a way of getting to the groups that are targeting threats and other things against farmers. We have also tightened the minimum penalty for grossly illegal threats. After all, it is a limited circle of people who engage in this kind of harassment. However, it is important that, when these reports are received, the police conduct the preliminary investigations as efficiently as possible so that these individuals can be prosecuted and that the reports continue to be taken very seriously. In addition, questions are asked about how we strengthen police presence in rural areas. Oscarsson's interpellation raises the question of how many police officers will come out into the countryside in the coming years. The answer to that question is: more than ever, for the simple reason that we are now training twice as many police officers as the old government did. Another 1,100 leave school this year and another 1,300 next year. Then we will go up to an education rate of about 2 000 per year, which will be historically high. We are expanding the police organization with 10,000 employees up to 2024. It is important to ensure that this reinforcement benefits the whole country. I can therefore say that there will be more policemen than ever in the countryside.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-314	Mrs. Old President! Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. The part concerning the police is of course very relevant, because it is of course important that there is local knowledge and that there are enough resources in the whole chain to be able to deal with this crime and get to the place when problems arise on the farms. It is good that extensive efforts are being made on the police from the government and also from the alliance side. We all agree that we need to invest in this, but I think you will have to bring Magnus Oscarsson on another occasion. I think it is positive that there has been a tightening up of, for example, online harassment and that the measures mentioned by the Minister have been taken. This has not been caused by threats and harassment in connection with animal activism, but I understand that this is a much broader problem. However, I can find it a bit frustrating that this issue has been raised in Parliament on several occasions but not really taken seriously. When media attention is drawn to it, action is suddenly being taken on this issue as the great democratic threat it actually is. Anyone looking at this debate may wonder why this is really a problem. It is not only a problem for farmers who are affected, it is actually a problem for the whole industry. We have here in Parliament decided to increase Swedish food production. When, according to one survey, as many as were fourth agricultural entrepreneurs are concerned about being subjected to threats and harassment, the situation is serious. One farmer in five knows someone who has been exposed. If we want a Swedish livestock production, which I am sure both the Minister and I want, we must ensure that farmers can operate without fear. But it is not just farmers and employees who are affected. Even county administrative boards testify that hunters are difficult to find for the hunting of wolves because they are being hanged and threatened. Seeker hunters, who work on the police's mission to put the traffic damage and suffering of the wild to death, suffer, causing more and more people to shy away from taking such a mission. These are important functions for society, and if we cannot guarantee the safety of these, the suffering of animals will increase significantly. But this is basically also a democracy problem. In this case, it is about ideology linked to animal rights, but it may just as well be about harassment linked to religion or to some other ideology. Therefore, it is important that we really do what we can. With regard to what may need to be done in the future, number one is that the policy must clearly say: we do not tolerate this. I think it is very positive that the Minister is clear in this House and has also been clear since the issue came up in the media. I am also pleased that several Members of Parliament are saying that this is something that we cannot accept in a democratic society. The Minister also highlights camera surveillance, which is on its way in. That is also positive. I think it is important to stop funds for violent organisations. If organisations that run animal rights issues affirm violence against owners of animals, they shall be excluded from public funds and money paid out shall be repaid. In order to get better statistics and better follow-up on the extent of these crimes, I also think it would be good to have a specific crime code. I also believe, just as Magnus Oscarsson is in his interpellation, that it would be valuable to strengthen the protection of hunters. Oscarsson mentions certain methods. It could also be envisaged to include the search hunters in the protection of blue-light personnel. If you perform a mission on behalf of the police, you should also be protected. We are supposed to protect the right of demonstration, but when demonstrations repeatedly take place in the form of harassment, we need to look at this issue. I wonder what the Minister thinks about the issues that I have raised here and whether he has any other thoughts in the future.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-326	Mrs. Old President! It is not that we have started working on these issues because they have been mediated. The work on the measures I presented often goes a long way back. I pointed out that the measures we have taken also have an impact on how we can tackle this type of harassment and serious crimes. But this is not something that we started with only when it became mediated. On the contrary: the mission of politically motivated crime – this is part of it – we gave to the police and the Security Service a long time ago. What are the measures we are talking about? The increased possibility of camera surveillance is one of them. The stronger law against online hatred came into force on 1 January. It is also about the rules on restraining and electronic anklets for those who engage in this kind of thing. The reason I mention this is because I know that there are cases in which individuals in this particular context have been banned from contact which they have subsequently violated. The anklet now gives a very concrete opportunity to ensure that the contact bans are complied with and that they cannot be broken again. This shall enter into force from 1 July. I think we fully agree that no funds should go to violent organisations. Now I am not in charge of the benefit systems, but I know that there is a review going on with other ministers on this particular issue. In the case of municipal funds too, one must have a strict attitude and good control. Money should not go to violent organizations. That's where you're supposed to tighten up when you can. This is an issue raised in Oscarsson's interpellation. In those contexts where hunters can be said to be engaged in the exercise of authority – and in most cases, they can probably – they are covered by the legislation in force on violence and threats to officials. They have this protection of criminal law. If they do not have it in any situation, they will be subject to the legislation that is now on the way forward, which is about tightening the penalties when attacking someone who is pursuing his profession. This is in the context of the Bluelight investigation proposal. We are going through it to see how it should be designed. But even today, in the vast majority of cases, hunters should be subject to legislation on violence and threats to officials. Finally, I would like to say a few more words on police matters. It is extremely important to ensure that there is a strong police force throughout the country. I cannot help but rejoice that last week we saw that more young people are now entering the police profession than ever. We received 11 588 applications for the 1,000 places available for police training from next spring. This means that we have very good conditions to fill the seats. This is particularly remarkable in view of the fact that we now have the lowest unemployment rate among young people in 15 years of age. There's a lot of people fighting over the kids right now, but the police are winning. A lot of young people are now looking for the police profession, which gives us good opportunities to expand police operations throughout the country.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-332	Mrs. Old President! What I mean by a late awakening from the government is that this is not a new issue. Many of the measures highlighted by the Minister are those that have come to the fore with other measures that are positive for those affected by animal rights-related crime. When you read the comments from the Minister for Justice and Rural Affairs, it is easy to understand them as: Wow, was it this bad? Better late than never, I think. It is a good thing that we are now beginning to talk about this as a clear problem. It is good that the Minister is in favour of several of the measures that I highlighted. Stopping funds for violent organisations is not a new issue. But now there are additional directives, and it is very good if something concrete comes out of this. It is also positive that further work will be done to strengthen protection. One issue at the end of my previous speech, which may not have been understood, was the right of demonstration. Not infrequently, it is, of course, repeated harassment that is directed at individual entrepreneurs. As an agricultural entrepreneur, they often work on their farm, where the family also lives. There people use the right of demonstration to regularly infringe or repeat harassment, which is very stressful for entrepreneurs, employees and relatives. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about that. I would also like to thank the Minister for this discussion and look forward to future action.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-335	Mrs. Old President! Just as Kristina Yngwe says, it is not a new question. It was in the time of the alliance government, too. However, I can see that it is now that a great deal of these measures are actually being taken. The monitoring of cameras, the strengthening of penalties in relation to the illegal threats, the legislation on harassment, the ban on contact and electronic surveillance are things that we are now getting in place, as is the expansion of police activities. No, no money should go to violent organizations. We fully agree on that. It is important to increase controls as well as possible. The Right of Demonstration has very strong protection in the Constitution. But you must never be guilty of such things as trespassing or home peace crimes. If this happens, it is important to ensure that these crimes can be properly investigated. But, of course, we can continue to discuss this particular regulatory framework. There are, as I said, strong constitutional provisions, which I think it is important to continue. Then it is important to ensure that the police can conduct preliminary investigations with efficiency and that the individuals involved are prosecuted. As I have often mentioned, we take this type of crime seriously, both in terms of the impact on individuals and in terms of the fact that they aim to shift the livelihoods of people. We can never accept that. I would also like to thank Kristina Yngwe for a good discussion this morning and wish her a pleasant summer.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-340	Mrs. Old President! Lars Beckman has asked me why I and the government do not want to take any action on the cost of towing foreign lorries. He has also asked me whether I intend to work for the police to sign a national agreement on this issue. As I described in the answer to the same question, I do not, of course, want to have a situation in which vehicles are standing on or adjacent to our roads, thereby contributing to an increased risk of accidents. In the same answer, I also explained that if the owner does not take responsibility and move his vehicle, the Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Administration are already entitled to move or tow the vehicle in question. This may be, for example, when it is necessary for the order and safety of traffic. It is sufficient for the vehicle to be in such a position or in such a way that danger arises or traffic is prevented or disturbed. It is important that the authorities make use of this possibility even if the vehicle does not constitute an immediate danger at the time of detection or at the time of the accident. The owner of the vehicle that has been moved is obliged to reimburse the cost of both the move and the other measures that the authorities have had to take. Thus, current legislation does not prevent the authorities from taking the measures deemed necessary. In case a vehicle meets the criteria for a move, it is carried out even if the Police Authority sometimes takes the cost.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-344	Mrs. Old President! There will be a winter this year too. You can't believe it now that the evening newspapers are warning that it will be 25 - 30 degrees hot this weekend, but it will be a period when it becomes 25 - 30 degrees cold. Unfortunately, the Minister's answer shows that we will have the same traffic chaos in Gävleborg as we have had in recent winters. Mrs. Old President! We have thus had a situation where the E4 past Hudiksvall has been suspended for up to 24 hours. We have had a situation where the E4 between Söderhamn and Gävle has been suspended for eight hours. Sometimes it is only a few hours, and sometimes it is up to 24 hours. Mrs. Old President! The biggest problem is that the car carriers in Gävleborg do not want to work for free. I think that is a reasonable approach. I think it is a reasonable view that the person who does a job should also be paid. That is what my interpellation is about. Today we can have a situation like this: the E4 is suspended. There's a foreign truck blocking the road, but nobody wants to to tow because the tow truck doesn't get paid. One can imagine the socio-economic consequences of the fact that there are mile-long queues hour after hour after hour when the truck is not moved. This cannot, of course, be unfamiliar to the Minister. It is quite easy to google car carriers and Hudiksvall or car carriers and Söderhamn and to see all the news stories that have been in SVT News and in Alla Hälsingland. You can also pick up the phone and talk to the tow truckers, as I have done, and ask: What system should we have to solve this? An abandoned tow truck says to SVT: That's always a problem when you go out, and it's been supported and wet for a long time. When it's a real situation, you can't discuss such a thing. But why should I clean the E4 for free? I'm an entrepreneur and I need to make money from it. This is what Falck says in Bollnäs, who was responsible for one of the car salvages when it finally became too long. Mrs. Old President! They have solved this very well in some police districts. Among other things, in Jämtland, the police have an agreement with the Swedish Motor Vehicle Insurance Association regarding the payment to carriers. If the foreign haulage company does not pay, a payment is guaranteed. That is what I have asked the Government about. Since the police are a national authority, I wonder: Would it not be appropriate to make a national agreement so that the same thing applies in all counties? Wouldn't that be appropriate, so that the E4 doesn't pass Hudiksvall is off hour after hour because the tow truck, quite naturally, doesn't want to work for free and doesn't expect to get paid? That's what the interpellation is about. That's why I get a little nervous when I hear in the answer that this is not a problem. The minister says that the police authorities sometimes have to take the cost. But how is the car carrier supposed to know if it's sometimes he gets paid-- it's usually a he. I guess it's perfectly reasonable for the car-gatherers to get paid for the job they do. And since this is a social problem, it is appropriate that it is the government that ensures that it solves it, for example by instructing the Police Authority to make a national agreement, as has been done in Jämtland. I think that has also been done in more counties. But it is not reasonable that the E4 through Gävleborg is suspended so many times due to this problem, Mrs. Age President.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-352	Mrs. Old President! There is a saying: You can lead a horse to water, but you can never force it to drink. It's kind of the same with Beckman. You can explain things to him over and over again, but you can never force him to understand, but he must do it himself. If the owner does not move his vehicle, the police and the Finnish Transport Administration already have the right to do so, and then the owner will reimburse the cost of it. You can move the cars even if you have not received a guarantee of the costs. Of course, I cannot personally go out and make sure that you move these cars on the E4 and that you do so in Gävleborg. But if Beckman is dissatisfied with how the Gävleborg police work with this, I think he should turn there and perhaps not to the Swedish parliament and government. It is a matter for the police on the spot to make sure that you intervene and do so on time. No authority – not the Finnish Transport Agency and not the police – has raised this issue with the government and said: This is a problem for us. I have been in contact with the Police Authority on account of the interpellation and asked: Is this a problem that you see and that needs to be addressed by the government and parliament intervening in some way? No, they say. This is an issue that is solved locally, so to speak. If Beckman is unhappy with the police in Gävle, I suggest he take it with them. As I said, the regulatory framework is clear. If there are cars or trucks in the way of traffic, the police and the Finnish Transport Agency can make sure to fix it, and so do they. Then Beckman may be dissatisfied with the fact that it does not happen as quickly as he might wish, and there may be some towers who have views on this, but that issue needs to be resolved locally.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-359	Mrs. Old President! Yes, reality always beats Morgan Johansson's rhetoric, even in this case. On 20 February this year a foreign truck went off the road outside Hudiksvall. The accident blocked the E4 and there was a total stop in traffic, Madam President. The discussion about who would pay the tow bill meant that no salvage work was started. Only after two and a half hours came the announcement that SOS International took the bill in that case. Sweden's most important road through Gävleborg, Madam President, was therefore closed for two and a half hours while there was a tow truck waiting for an answer to the question about who would pay. Mrs. Old President! We can ask the motorists who stood in the queue if it is a social problem or not. We can ask the commercial traffic whose goods did not arrive whether it is a problem or not. We have another case in Söderhamn, where the E4 was suspended for eight hours, Madam President, because you didn't know how to pay it. That is exactly how I started my previous speech. Today it is warm and nice outside. This weekend it will be 25 degrees hot. But there will be a winter even this year, and even this year trucks will get stuck in the slopes outside Hudiksvall. But here is the government saying that there is no problem and that there is no social problem, even though the E4 is suspended over and over again. This problem is certainly not only on the E4 in Gävleborg, but it is becoming more serious within our county because it is one of Sweden's worst E4 routes, because it is one-lane instead of two-lane. In another interpellation debate, Tomas Eneroth has blamed that towers, police and traffic services are too ignorant. He then had a discussion with my colleague Edward Riedl, and he felt that people had the right to detain the goods for payment. That was the solution your fellow government had. But the simplest solution for everyone must of course be an agreement. If there is an agreement in Jämtland that works and means that the individual small business owner does not work for free with important social functions, the police should of course be able to sign the same agreement in the counties where there are problems. It's a huge problem, Madam Old President, in Gävleborg when the E4 is suspended for eight hours. I can live with the government thinking it's fun to throw vomit at me. But I can assure you it's not fun for those who stand eight hours in line, Madam Old President. It's not even fun to stand two and a half hours in line when there's a tow truck waiting for information about who's going to pay. I hope that I, the Government and I agree that small businessmen will not, of course, bear the bill. It is not the individual tower who should take the risk of standing there in the blizzard, working with a tow that may cost 50 000 and then not getting paid. I also know that there are cases where carriers of pure humanity and sense of social responsibility salvage even though they know they are not getting paid. This, then, is a real problem, Madam President-in-Office. It is a major social problem when important roads through Sweden are closed hour after hour because it is unclear who should be responsible for the salvage cost. The simple answer from the Government might have been to say: I have seen that this is a problem, and of course we will find a good solution to it. But now the exact opposite is signaled: the Government sees no social problem, and there are no problems to solve. That means, Madam President, that next winter, too, we risk the E4 being suspended hour after hour after hour.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-369	Mrs. Old President! What Lars Beckman doesn't understand is that the government can't solve all the local problems. Sometimes we have to respect the functioning of the institutions and authorities that do this locally. I have to assume that the police in Gävle take on this problem and do it in a good way. It is not the government or parliament that can solve this problem for anyone, but it is the Police Authority that should do so in collaboration with the actors who are there. The regulatory framework is clear: If there is a car blocking it can be moved, and it is the police and the Finnish Transport Agency that can act – just no matter who has to take the costs. If the car stands and blocks, the government will take the cost for so long. That is the rule of law. Lars Beckman is trying to make some kind of point about the government now having to go out and solve all the problems that exist locally, and I can only say that we will never be able to do that. But he knows very well what the regulations look like. My call to Beckman is to continue this discussion with the police in Gävle, if so, and ask why they are not acting. Of course I can do my part, but this is not about the fact that there are any rules or agreements that are at the heart of the problem. Then, of course, the problems need to be addressed as soon as possible, but then it is the respect for the Police Authority and the responsibilities of the authorities that the Government and the Riksdag must, after all, continue.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-372	Mrs. Old President! So we have a government that has resigned already now. It is therefore only to regret professional traffic and motorists who will drive through Gävleborg next winter, when the same traffic chaos will occur. Of course the government can rule the country! Of course, the government can enter in regulatory letters to its authorities that a national agreement should be signed that does not allow the individual carrier to take the business risk. This is not only a problem in Gävleborg, but it is around Sweden. I note that in another interpellation debate Tomas Eneroth, the Minister's Minister's colleague, has given a different answer to what the Government has now given, and I think that is unfortunate. Basically, it should be about us all agreeing that vital roads in Sweden should work regardless of the weather and who drives them. We shouldn't even be here debating that, Madam President. The solution must, of course, be that the government instructs its authorities how to act so that we across Sweden get an equivalent application of a national regulatory framework. After all, it is not reasonable to blame an individual policeman in Hudiksvall for an exercise of authority; it should be clear to everyone what applies. Then it should not be so that it ticks on for two and a half hours before you get someone who pays. Two and a half hours – imagine the traffic jams from Hudiksvall, Madam President of the Age! There are traffic queues all the way up to Sundsvall because the E4 is standing still. And here's the government saying: No, that's not the government's problem. Excuse me, Madam President of the Age, but I absolutely believe that it is the government's responsibility to rule its authorities and govern the country. However, I thank you for the interpellation debate, and I wish the Minister a pleasant summer. This is likely to be the last interpellation debate in this role.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-377	Mrs. Old President! After all, it remains to be seen; I do not think that Beckman will take any victories in advance. For such things tend to punish themselves. Now Beckman himself hasn't spent a day in the government. Then perhaps it is that one does not really understand what the conditions are like between government and authorities, what the regulations look like and how to control authorities. There is a clear regulatory framework on this issue, and that is that cars can be moved by the police and the Finnish Transport Agency if they stand in the way. It goes without saying that this should happen. Then, of course, it must be ensured that this works locally, but it must in fact be the local authorities and the local police who are responsible for ensuring that it is managed properly. There are no rules that we in the government or parliament need to change to ensure that this happens, but it is just a matter of ensuring that there is effective cooperation locally. Of course I'll check again and ask how it works. If it does not work in Gävle, how can it be that it works in the rest of the country? Is there something special you do wrong in Gävle? Of course, I can conduct this dialogue, but the rules are clear and clear: if cars stand in the way, they will be moved, and that will happen as soon as possible. With that, Madam Old President, I'd like to wish Lars Beckman a nice summer.
i-Pb4v72UT8eZfXZF1VNZ9Nw	Mrs. Old President! Daniel Bäckström has asked me four questions regarding the implementation of the arms directive. The first and second questions concern the way in which total defence concerns have been taken into account in the investigation into the implementation of the Arms Directive in Sweden and what in the proposal reflects former Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman's promises to grant exemptions to shooting organisations within the voluntary defence organisations in order to ensure the overall needs of the response in the implementation of the 2017 amending directive to the EU Arms Directive. In the course of the work, the investigator has obtained information and views from the Swedish Defence Administration. Weapons included in category A, including some semi-automatic weapons, are currently used in target shooting in several civilian shooting organisations. According to the Swedish Armed Forces, it is important that these organisations continue to be allowed to carry out shootings with weapons similar to those used in the armed forces. The shooting operations currently carried out with such weapons in category A are therefore, in the opinion of the Swedish Armed Forces, of great importance for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations and the Swedish Armed Forces' total defence. Against this background, the investigator notes that it should be argued that the shootings currently carried out by the shooting organisations with such weapons so as to be included in category A of the directive have such an impact on national defence that it is possible to continue to allow this. The investigator notes that the Parliament's defence decisions for the years 2016 – 2020 also support such a conclusion. The investigator has therefore proposed, in view of the needs of the overall defence, that target shooting with such weapons should continue to be allowed under category A of the directive. The third and fourth question from Daniel Bäckström concerns how the interests of Swedish hunters and sportsmen are protected when the proposal even goes beyond the EU's weapons directive. In his work with the memorandum, the investigator has had meetings and contacts with, among others, the Pistolskytteförbundet, the Swedish Skyttesportförbund, the Swedish Dynamic Shooting Federation, the Swedish Hunters' Federation and the Hunters' National Federation. These associations have thus had the opportunity to express their views in the course of their work. I have noted that the investigator's proposal goes in some respects beyond what the amending directive requires. This concerns, for example, the proposal on general authorisation requirements for warehouses and launch mechanisms. The investigator's proposal has been out for a referral, and we are now going through the answers carefully. The government's intention is that the changes made should not adversely affect the overall defence, nor should they be unnecessarily burdensome for hunters and sportsmen.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-386	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. These are four important issues for which, on the basis of ongoing work for which the government is responsible, I am summarising in my interpellation. I wrote the interpellation because the implementation of the EU arms directive is a very important issue affecting a large part of Sweden's population and also many interests. This applies to both sportsmen and hunters as well as Sweden's total defence capabilities. We in the Center Party have been, and are, clear. We have voted 'no' in the EU and, now that this is to be implemented, we do not believe that we should go further than what the EU has prescribed. This is an issue that we will follow on how the government analyses the various referrals and makes suggestions as to what it is suffering. We have over 600 000 legal gun owners and just under 2 million licenses in Sweden. Very rarely are the legal weapons used in crime, but they are illegal weapons. I think we agree that the focus should be on combating and reducing the number of illegal weapons in our society. We see that there are many people around Sweden who are engaged, both as sportsmen and hunters. Young people in particular are very interested in these issues. Early in life, people learn to take responsibility for how to handle weapons and how to work in the community to strengthen the community and contribute to the good of society. This should involve more people to develop society and reduce vulnerability. I therefore believe that it is serious that the government's investigators choose to go further and make it more complicated. The Minister's reply states that it is okay to make it burdensome for sportsmen and hunters, but that it should not be unnecessarily burdensome. It's a pretty clear signal from the government that it's okay to make it burdensome. Why is it okay to make it burdensome? is my question back. I am a member of the Defence Committee and the Defence Committee and have been responsible for negotiating the Center Party in connection with three agreements with the Government on the further work to strengthen our defence capabilities. I see important links between these organisations and the interested and committed citizens in strengthening total defence. We see in the answers that the Swedish Armed Forces believe that the sporting associations have an important function and an important role for the total defense and that the dynamic shooting, which is not defined as a voluntary defence organisation, is important and has close cooperation with the Swedish Armed Forces. These various proposals, with classifications where more are placed in category A, would hit the business hard and also affect the collaboration with the Swedish Armed Forces. In practice, it will be very difficult for Swedish sportsmen to participate in international competitions. There will be a European Championship in Karlskoga in August. This will be very difficult to do in the future if this is to be done, and the same problem will affect Swedish participants in similar competitions abroad. The classification affects how you can transport your weapons between countries, for example by air. How does the Minister analyse the practical consequences of these proposals, and where are you in the discussions?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-397	Mrs. Old President! I would like to start by being very clear about this: we do not intend to make it more difficult for legal arms owners by going beyond what the directive requires. That's our focus. Of course, all countries must live up to the directive, and all governments will have to live up to the directive. However, there is no reason for us to go beyond what this directive requires. I want to have this said, because I have seen that there are many myths on social media. We would like to describe it as wanting to take further steps to make it more difficult. No, we won't. It is just as Daniel Bäckström says; there we have a common entrance. The vast majority of the violent crimes involving weapons are committed with illegal weapons. This is the main problem. There are some examples of crimes where legal weapons have been used – for example, Peter Mangs had an arms license, like Breivik in Norway – but in the vast majority of cases illegal weapons are used. Often they are smuggled in, and many come from the Balkan wars. We have successfully tightened the penalties for the serious weapons crimes – we did so on 1 January. This is precisely aimed at the illegal weapons. The minimum sentence for serious gun crime is now two years. As far as the presumption of detention is concerned, I looked at the figures as recently as last week: last year 24 people were detained for serious gun crimes; this year the number is 124 people. The new legislation, which has been in force since 1 January, has therefore had a very tangible effect. People who previously ran with illegal weapons in the streets and squares and committed crimes are now sitting in the cage instead. We have also invested in customs. Among other things, we now have weapons dogs in place at Lernacken in Skåne to be able to find more weapons that may come into Sweden. We also have simplifications in place for the legal arms owners. I mentioned in the reply that we are removing the licence requirement for silencers, which is a very substantial simplification for many. As regards the arms directive and its negotiation, Daniel Bäckström also knows that Sweden was very active during the negotiations. In fact, we were the country that tabled the most amendments of all, and we also heard our views on a wide range of points. I would like to point out that the investigation referred to by Daniel Bäckström takes into account total defence needs when reviewing and analysing the proposals. This applies, for example, to the treatment of fully and semi-automatic weapons, where it is noted that the Pistolskotteförbundet and the Swedish Skyttesportsförbund are voluntary defence organisations and play an important role in total defence. That is precisely why the proposal looks like it is now, including the exceptions that need to be made in this regard. Finally, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the investigator's proposal goes further in one respect than the directive. It's about the licensing requirement for warehouses and launch mechanisms. However, I see in the consultation that this has been criticised by many, and I want to make it clear that we do not intend to proceed with this. That is in line with what I said at the outset: we do not want to go beyond what the directive provides for.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-408	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for that. This means, in practice, that the proposals contained in the investigation will not be implemented. Is that the Minister's answer to this question? It's extremely central. There are many practical consequences linked to the way in which the investigator presents the various descriptions, such as the magazine question raised by the Minister in his reply. What are the possible consequences for the individual arms owner if this were to be done? Is it supposed to be a license per warehouse? Is that supposed to be a serial number per warehouse? How should one deal with the view on this linked to hunters and sportsmen and whether these are weapons or civilian? What are the consequences if someone drops a magazine and this person has a weapon before? The risk is that the person loses the whole license. The investigation defines semi-automatic weapons based on different descriptions. It is important that the government looks at how the investigation describes this and also compares how the original English text has been translated. There are, according to information, some who create legal problems based on how to define category A and category B. The definitions vary depending on how the translation is done and depending on the conclusions to be drawn. The annexes to the Arms Regulation define a semi-automatic firearm as a firearm which automatically reloads each time a shot is fired and which can only fire one shot at a push on the trigger. Point 7 of the Annex describes semi-automatic firearms of category A by the number of cartridges which can be fired consecutively without recharging. Category B is described in the same annex in a different way– instead of using the number of cartridges that can be fired without recharging, the number of cartridges that can be refilled is used. These are examples of important elements that need to be followed up and analysed, because there may be errors in the practical application and also in the legislative text to be drawn up. After all, the draft report before us also includes a new legal text. Then it is very important that the concepts and definitions used are clear and clear and cannot be misunderstood. I assume that the Minister is open to but also believes that it is important to follow up and explain to the Swedish people how to interpret the different definitions and concepts used in the proposal. I believe that a proposal for a solution should be that all semi-automatic firearms should remain in category B and that the technical limitations on weapons should allow for category A. With regard to licence requirements for warehouses and launch mechanisms, this will be a major workload, not least for the Police Authority, which has been discussed earlier here in the debate today. We know that these are already far too long processing times. The question then is whether this would entail additional workload and how the Minister views this practical consequence. It will also involve a lot of administrative work for hunters and others affected by the five-year licences. Does the Minister's answer mean that five-year licences will not become a reality? I put the question on the basis of what the Minister has so far answered in the debate.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-417	Mrs. Old President! As I explained in my previous speech, our starting point is that we should not go beyond the arms directive. At the same time, all countries must comply with the directive. Whatever government will be in the future will be allowed to do, for that is the rule of law. The referral round has just ended. We are now going through the referrals. But I've left a couple of messages that I just want to draw attention to. The first is that, of course, we intend to proceed with the simplifications that the proposal entails. Licensing for silencers for weapons suitable for the weapon you already have will disappear. It is an essential simplification that has been much sought after by hunters for a very long time. The second point I would like to make is that the interests of total defence here have been weighed heavily by the investigator. That is why the proposal looks like it does. Now we will also receive a referral from the Swedish Armed Forces, which we will of course take into account. But it is important for us to highlight how important it will be for the future that this activity can be maintained and not made more difficult. That is precisely why the proposal is as it is. We take the interests of the total defense here very seriously. Finally, as regards the question of whether we go further than the directive, that is to say, the obligation to permit warehouses and launch mechanisms, my answer is: No, our starting point is not to go further in that part. It goes beyond what the directive requires, and we do not see strong arguments for it. That is why it is not something that we intend to move on with. The five-year rule must be analysed more carefully to see how it actually relates to the directive. We're not quite done there yet. However, as I have explained before, our basic position is that we do not intend to go beyond what the directive requires.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-424	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for the information. In each part, it is important that careful analysis of the practical consequences is carried out. I assume that the government takes this very seriously. When it comes to silencers, it is in line with the directive that has been decided at European level, so that is right in relation to that. However, with regard in particular to the conditions for the dynamic shooting, I remain concerned about the consequences of this, how the activities will be affected and how the various parts, if implemented, will affect the capabilities of the individual arms owner. Over the years, large resources have been invested and a great deal of commitment has been made, and in many ways they are contributing to the development of this country and society. It must be a prerequisite that the government does everything in its power to give this type of activity the opportunity to develop rather than limit it. Then the concept definition of category A and category B is extremely central, also in its application, as the Minister has mentioned, when it comes to warehouses, launch mechanisms, spare parts and licensing conditions. There are lots of details in the proposal that need to be followed up. In political work, I have learned that a declaration of intent is a good start. And as the government says through the minister's reply, a letter of intent is not the result. A lot can happen along the way. I therefore assume that the intention set out by the Minister in his reply today goes much further and that it is a concrete statement that the government is doing what it can to make this as good as possible from a Swedish perspective. At the same time, it is important to do what you can now to avoid introducing a five-year license, because it would affect so many people and be very practical in applying it. Thank you for the debate.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-430	Mrs. Old President! Our main priority throughout the parliamentary term has been to combat illegal weapons, and I believe that we have done so successfully. In my first speech, I pointed out how the new legislation, with more stringent penalties for serious weapons offences, has led to a sharp increase in the number of detainees. Those who used to run around town with illegal weapons can't do that anymore. Those who have access to illegal weapons now leave them at home. They are aware that if they leave the home with guns on them, they may not return home for two years because they are being detained pending trial. There are 100 more people this year who are in custody only for serious gun crimes than last year at this time. So it has been effective. The amnesty, which was going on this spring, meant that over 10 000 weapons, which had otherwise flowed around the community and could be used in a negative way, were submitted to the authorities. Then we have to live up to the European Weapons Directive. There is our point of entry: no, we will not go further than the directive. I have given several comments here on some of the substantive issues. There are many more details that we need to go through. I look forward to continued cooperation with the Riksdag on these issues, especially perhaps with the Center Party, when we have come further in the preparation to ensure that we land in such a way that there is a broad majority in Parliament on this. I think we have a common starting point here that is worth taking advantage of. With this, Madam President, I would like to wish Daniel Bäckström a pleasant summer.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-436	Mrs. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me whether I intend to take steps to restore the capacity of the narcotics police, including in the form of specialised police units. Furthermore, Roger Haddad has asked me how I and the government want to contribute to getting more police officers in external service to ensure that the investigation is carried out against the criminals. The work on drugs is a self-evident and important part of the activities of the Political Authority. The public works in a number of ways against drugs, for example through targeted actions and by being extra visible in vulnerable places. However, the drug situation and the problem differ in the country. Against this background, the work of the Political Authority is also different in the regions. In recent years, the need for camera surveillance in places where there is an open drug sale has been highlighted. In recent times, therefore, camera surveillance has increased significantly in crime-prone locations. The government recently proposed a new camera surveillance team that will further increase the possibilities of using camera surveillance in places where there are problems with crime and disorder of order. The government has also set up an investigation to abolish the permit requirement for police camera surveillance. The Government has made it clear on several occasions that it is the needs of the operations that will govern the composition of competence within the Police Authority. The government has no intention of controlling which specialist skills you or groups should exist in the Police Authority. It is therefore up to the public authorities to decide how resources are to be allocated within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to fulfil the tasks and objectives of the Agency. We have also made it clear that the number of police employees will increase. The Government's ambition is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 to 2024. It will mean not only more people in external service but a general addition throughout the authority. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of employees, the government is now carrying out the biggest financial investment on the police in 20 years. We also create the conditions for training more police officers, including by increasing the number of universities that can organise police training. During our term of office, we have doubled the number of people who are driven out to the police. Next year, 1 300 police students are expected to be completed. This is the highest number since 2010. The government has thus given the Police Authority a good opportunity to combat drug crime in an effective manner as well.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-443	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. I share the view of the Government that the work on drugs is a self-evident and very important part of the mission of the Political Authority. The background to my interpellation is that last year Sweden had dramatically many shootings. There were 140 who were injured during shootings, and 40 were killed. The common factor behind many of these shootings and ruthless deals between criminals was precisely the trafficking of cannabis and other drugs. Therefore, the Liberals want to make sure that Sweden has a police authority and activities that prioritise the work against drugs. We do not present every day ten different areas where we want to see special efforts and special groups. On the contrary, we are keen to refine the police's duties. Mrs. Old President! Last autumn we had a debate on how important it is for the police to clear up reported rapes and other sexual crimes, which many of us think are very serious crimes that cannot be prioritised. The government then acted correctly and gave the Police Authority a clear message that it is important to clear up the serious sexual crimes and that it is unacceptable to put them aside. I also share the view that there are differences throughout the country and that the organisation in the regions may differ. However, the whole domestic policy debate has focused on the vulnerable and, not least, particularly vulnerable areas in terms of illegal weapons, drug supply and shootings. Drugs are by far the most common factor, and it doesn't matter if you ask the police in Helsingborg or Uppsala. In Västerås last autumn we had an abominable attack on a police chief's private residence. According to the police, this could be a retaliation because the police are just looking and trying to get to the drug sale, which is destroying our society and our country. Therefore, we are keen to hear about the government in its role as the principal of the Police Authority through its regulatory letter can strengthen police capacity in the work against drugs. I believe that this ability has unfortunately become worse since the reorganisation, and the Liberals and the other Alliances have said that they are prepared to adjust the reorganisation if it has negative effects.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-451	Mrs. Old President! We are in the process of expanding police capabilities and forcefully. We are making the biggest investment in the police force in 20 years, and there will be 10,000 more employees by 2024. We will start new police training courses; Malmö will start spring 2019, and West Sweden will have a place of education that will also start next year. Last week we were told that there are over 11 000 applicants for police training. So more young people than ever go to the police profession, which is amazingly pleasing. This is, in a sense, remarkable given that unemployment among young people is the lowest in 15 years. Nowadays, all businesses are fighting over young people, and the police are winning in the sense that a lot of young people are applying for police training. This means that we have good opportunities to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, i.e. to expand the police organisation by 30% by 2024. Work on drugs is a priority. We all know that is the basis for many violent crimes, for example. We shall not have open drug sales in Sweden. We are going to have more access to those who engage in shootings, which can often have rivalry over drug trafficking as a basis. That is why we tightened the penalties for serious weapons offences on 1 January, and now 200 more people are in custody than the corresponding period last year. People who used to run around the streets with guns and committed crimes are now in the cage. We've invested in camera surveillance. There are more cameras up than ever before in Husby, Tensta, Rinkeby, Gottsunda, Ronna, Bergsjön and Rosengård, and I can continue to list where there have been cameras set up in particularly criminal places. This has been done, among other things, to disrupt drug trafficking. We're going on offer. But it is also important to go on demand. Sometimes reality isn't what you think it is. Does Roger Haddad know in which municipality in Stockholm County young people try drugs to the highest extent? It is in Danderyd that young people use most drugs throughout Stockholm County. Many times they probably buy it in vulnerable areas, so it may well be the upper class that keeps the drug traffic going in Stockholm County. Then we must have the courage to go along with it. We are going to go in the vulnerable areas and combat supply, but we also need to go into preventive action in the areas where demand exists. Let's not shy away from that. Who's gonna decide how the police are organized? My opinion is that the police are professionals at it, and we must respect the profession. As far as possible, we must leave it to the police to decide how to work in cooperation with the citizens on the ground. This is based, among other things, on citizens' promises, where it comes from below what questions citizens think the police should work on. I think that way of working is best. I do not think that the government and parliament should go in too much detail and govern how the police should organise themselves. I'm worried when Roger Haddad opens up to reorganise the police further. I think it's hard to get along the spine of a lot of cops when they hear it.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-462	Mrs. Old President! In December I had a debate with the Government where he did not recognise the problem of over-bureaucratisation in the Swedish police. Only the other day, at the DN Debate, we were able to read a speech by two professors who criticised precisely the bureaucracy problem within the Police Authority. That is precisely the analysis that the Liberals are doing, and of course we need to discuss how to use the resources of this organisation. It is also important that we, as politicians and legislators, highlight aspects that come to our attention. When the police were reformed, many police regions chose to shut down reconnaissance units, drug units and youth units. Perhaps they started units against serious crimes that would work a little more generally. That's when you lost your specialist skills. This is not something I have guessed, but we hear it when we visit. Active policemen also call us to draw our attention to this. We do not intervene on every detail in the agency, but the work on drugs is so crucial and central to the criminal developments we see. We have received more reported drug offences in the country while slightly fewer are being prosecuted for drug offences. It looks a little better when it comes to serious drug offences. But the general trend according to the Crime Prevention Council seems to me to be pointing in the wrong direction. It may be because our ability has deteriorated. The Liberal interpellation shows that camera surveillance is not enough. We also need to have visible police and have the possibility of reconnaissance and busts, so that we can not only access what we see at Tensta Square, on the plate here in Stockholm or in Helsingborg. We also need to get to the route above the consumer. It requires a completely different calibre in terms of investigative resources and, not least, reconnaissance resources. That is why I am a little sad when the Government does not show any signs of wanting to follow up on this. Again: When we raised the issue last autumn that the police do not have time for sexual crimes and reported rapes, or even have to put very serious crimes aside, the government acted. I wonder: will the government act here too?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-467	Mrs. Old President! We are following this issue very closely. I visit police operations every week, and sometimes a couple of times a week. Almost wherever I am, we're talking about drugs and how the police work against drugs right there, no matter where in the country it is. My picture is very clear: this is something that the police are doing a lot of work, because we all know that this is a breeding ground for other types of crime, including serious violent crimes. I also see an increase in the number of reported cases to prosecutors in the field of drugs. It is a sign that the reorganisation that has been going on for some now is in fact completed and that it has come through and can work more effectively. Drug offences are a category of offences where more investigations are now reported to the prosecutor. Sex crimes are also a category of crimes where the police's ability has increased over the past year. More investigations into sexual offences are reported. This is really a matter of principle. What Roger Haddad is after is not just that we should say that we think this is important. As I interpret Roger Haddad's question, he also wants to go in and poke into exactly how the police organize themselves. The first one I have no problem with, which means that it is clear that the police should work with narcotics crimes. But the second part, that the government and parliament should decide what types of groups should exist in the police organization, I think is a governance that goes too far in detail. I don't want to do that. I have full confidence in the way the police work on these issues. And I think, as I said, that things are moving in the right direction with regard to the tools that we have, the results that are being reported and the opportunities that we have for dealing with this type of crime. So I'm not prepared to go in and detail how the police should organize themselves. My philosophy is rather that the police receive guidance from the government on how to work a and what to prioritise, and we provide resources, tools and legislation. If we need to change something there, we will. But then, of course, you also have to work with this locally in a way that fits right there. This is based on the citizens' promises that are now in place in all the municipalities of the country. This is one way to ensure that there is a strong local anchoring and good cooperation between the police and other actors, such as municipalities, to ensure that this is done in a good way. My basic principle is to respect the professionalism of the police. The police are the best at fighting crime. Neither Roger Haddad nor I are experts in this, but it is the police who are capable of doing this. Then they must also have as much freedom as possible to solve their task.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-473	Mrs. Old President! I am concerned about the government's position on this issue. Apparently, you can act and give assignments when it comes to hate crimes. Apparently, you can act on sexual crimes and rape. However, in the case of drug offences, it is only said that the police can handle this. Why can we not act on the subject of drugs when it is the absolutely decisive explanation of virtually all the deals that have led to death shootings in the particularly vulnerable areas of our country? There is no logic in the Minister's comments. It is not the case that the Riksdag should decide exactly what this or that department should look like, but we highlight the problems to the government, which is the agency's principal. Here I had expected from the Liberals that we would get support in our ambition to get to the drugs and cannabis trade, the high demand and the illegal economy that is growing and spreading, not only in Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg, but also in other major cities. It is disappointing, Madam President-in-Office, that the government is not giving any other information. We have also highlighted another problem, which also affects our ability, namely that in general we have fewer police officers in external service. Every month when we get reports from the police department, we see that the number of police officers in external service is decreasing. This affects not least the prevention of crime, but of course also the intervention activities and the important reconnaissance activities that are needed over time, so that you have muscles to act and not only refer to targeted temporary interventions.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-476	Mrs. Old President! I think most people by now know that there is no government that has invested as much resources in the police as this government does. We are increasing the appropriations by over 2 billion from this year, 2.3 billion next year and 2.8 billion the following year. This is the biggest investment in at least 20 years. We're training twice as many police officers as Roger Haddad's government did. This year there are 1,100 coming out, and next year there are 1,300. We're going to a training rate of 2,000 a year. The training will be discussed in the next interpellation debate. But I just want to point out that. We're the ones who are expanding the police now. It is we who allocate funds. The number of police employees will increase by 10,000 by 2024. In addition, there will be a new criminal law on camera surveillance. We have also increased the penalties for the most serious drug offences, as Roger Haddad pointed out. These include crimes committed a little higher up the food chain, i.e. among those who organise this. These people are now being punished more than was the case in the past, as a result of proposals made by that government. What Roger Haddad is after in this debate is not that we should give a general priority to the drugs issue; he will understand that we do. What he wants is for the government to tell the police that it will set up special units. That is what he is asking questions about in the debate. I have said that it must be up to the police authorities to decide for themselves what the organization should look like. Then we follow their results, and we need to ensure that they maintain and are effective in their fight against crime. But I have great respect for the police's way of organizing themselves, and I'm not going to go in there and control the details. Nor am I going to tear up the reorganisation that we now finally think we are through.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-479	Mrs. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me how many admitted police students have dropped out of their education this semester and what measures the government intends to take to prevent this. He has also asked me when the government will come back with proposals for more practical steps in police training in accordance with Parliament's announcement. He has also asked what the new places to conduct police training for 96 students at Malmö University will cost. The ambition is, of course, that there should not be empty places in police training. It's hard to understand Roger Haddad's focus on the few who drop out of police training. According to the Police Authority, a total of 541 were registered for the police training three weeks into the spring semester 2018. Of these, five have stopped and seven have requested a study break, which means that they have not dropped off without delaying their starting time. In general, about 90 per cent complete the police education, which is a high throughput when compared to vocational degree programmes within the university. In addition, the number of future police officers is increasing. During the term of office, the number of police students has doubled. Next year, 2019, 1 300 police students are expected to leave, which is the worst number since 2010. However, too many people fall into the admission process. The Police Authority is working, on behalf of the Government and with the support of the Swedish Defence Agency's recruitment authority, to continue to streamline and modernise the admission process to police training. During our term of office, the Recruiting Authority has also doubled its review capacity. With regard to the issue of more practical elements in police training, it should be known that education today contains many practical elements, such as self-protection, shooting, driving, forensics and swimming. I would also like to remind you that it is the Police Authority that lays down both theoretical and practical knowledge requirements in police training. The Authority does not currently intend to increase the practical aspects of the training. As I have said in the past, the Government has an objective to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. In order to implement this increase, the government makes a historic effort at the Police Authority. In addition to the SEK 2 billion increase decided for 2018, the Government has also announced increases for 2019 and 2020. Overall, the increase in resources in the 2018 budget proposal amounts to SEK 7.1 billion in 2018 – 2020. The initiative will have an effect all over the country. To achieve the target of 10 000 more employees by 2024, more training places are needed. Therefore, the government has decided to open a new police training course in Malmö. Hopefully, there is also a basis for deciding on another new police training course in western Sweden already in the summer of 2018. The police department has budgeted for the police training this year to cost SEK 462 million.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-485	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. The issue of police training has been a very priority and important issue for me and the Liberals. We have repeatedly asked questions about throughput, admission systems and the Recruiting Authority's capacity. Now we choose to highlight another part of police training that has unfortunately gone under the radar. It is not about the examination capacity, the admission process or the whole administrative apparatus, but about what happens to those who have been admitted to police training, have accepted and are expected to start training. What we have seen is that there will be a number of – far too many, according to me – empty seats in the middle of the semester. This has nothing to do with the admission process or the Recruitment Authority, the old Pliktverket. Then why is this important? Well, it is that we will have a drop-out if we do not succeed in recruiting the right students, the best and most suitable. We have also criticised the work weeks, the practical weeks of which were previously three or four. It's been commuting over the years. Now it's down to a week, and I get signals that there are even fewer practical parts and practical weeks per semester for police students, which means that you don't really get the choice when it comes to the police program and training that you might be promised when you got the marketing. Why, then, is police training an important part? Because the debate in Sweden about the police right now is not just about defection from the profession. We also have problems with empty seats in police training. We're understaffed. We have a police shortage. The main problem is not the training places, as I have repeatedly said in the last three years, regardless of what the Minister of the Interior has called, but the drop-out from the profession. But we also see empty seats in police training. What I want to highlight today, Madam President, is how it is that so many do not show up after being offered a place in police training or perhaps starting and then disappearing during the journey. The Government mentions that 541 persons were registered for the police training in spring 2018. But don't forget that the range, the number of seats, was 800. The number of persons offered seats was 624. So now we're down to 541. It's a blunder of 83 police students. The Government then chooses to say, it is difficult to understand Roger Haddad's focus on the few who drop out of police training. You can call it a drop-off. You can call it a fallout. You can call it whatever you want, Prime Minister. But it's still a difference, a stick, for 83 police students. I want to know what the government is going to do about this.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-489	Mrs. Old President! Roger Haddad asked about those who started training and then quit. 541 individuals were enrolled at the beginning of the spring semester. Of them, 5 have left education. That's 1%. If Roger Haddad wonders why these few people have left the training, he can call them himself and ask. That is the scale we are talking about. By focusing on this group, Roger Haddad tries to mix away the cards and forget all the other things that are done. What we are doing now is a massive investment in the police. More and more people are being trained. 1 100 will leave the training this year, 1 300 next year. That's twice as many as when Roger Haddad's party was in the government. We've doubled the number of police students. We're training twice as many police officers as Roger Haddad's government did. That's just the way it is, and after all, he'll have to accept it. During your reign, you cut down police training by 90% over two years, Roger Haddad. You didn't invest in this at all. We are also launching new police training courses. There are certain things that the bourgeois parties never do. You'll never make it through the economy, you'll never make it through the labour market, and you'll never start any new police training. We started earlier in Umeå and Växjö. Now we start in Malmö and West. What I understand about Roger Haddad's question is he unhappy that we are going to start in Malmö, because he asks: How much is it going to cost? A place in police training costs about half a million for the whole education. Then he can count for himself how much the 96 seats cost. You go to school for five semesters. Should I interpret Roger Haddad's question as being against police training in Malmö, that he does not want it? I would say that it is necessary, as is the one in the West, for us to be able to bring up the number of people reading to the police. That's about 1,300 going out next year. We have to get up from about 1 300 to 2 000. Last week we were told that 11 588 young people applied for police training. There's more than ever. In the past we were at maybe 9 000 per application period. So now it's over 11,000. I'm happy about that, and I should be glad to see Roger Haddad that so many people want to become police officers. When we have 11 500 applicants for 1 000 seats, it also means that we have quite good opportunities to fill the 1 000 seats next time. We know that these are tough admission requirements, both physical and mental, but with such a large base we probably have quite good conditions. We have also broadened recruitment with more training places. This is particularly remarkable given that the labour market is so good for young people. Everyone is tearing and tearing and fighting over young people these days. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 15 years and 100,000 job vacancies. Yet, more and more young people are looking for police work and want to become police officers. I think this is linked to the fact that many people have now paid attention to how we, as the government, want to invest in this sector and will do so in the long term over a long period of years. My first question to Roger Haddad is: Is he really against police training in Malmö? Then I think he should say it. Is this his question? My second question to Roger Haddad is, in view of the fact that he claims to give priority to education: does he agree with the Moderates' proposal to divide the police force and divide the police training by dividing it into a special training for police officers and a special training for investigators? Is that also the Liberal road?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-497	Mrs. Old President! It is a fantastic achievement that the Government exceeds its speaking time without even answering my questions. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, but I'm the one asking the questions and you're the one who's going to answer the questions. It is not you who should ask me and I who will answer the questions. Here I have asked you questions as a minister. Next time answer my questions! This interpellation is about police training. It is irresponsible and disrespectful to MPs when you stand here and say that I mix the cards and want to talk about everything else. It's the police training I've been asking about. It's about why the dropouts and dropouts occur from police training. In terms of the number of training places – whether there have been 300, 500, 550 or 800 places – we have had empty places in police training. Solve that problem first. I say no to starting new police colleges when last year we had 500 empty seats and this year 259 empty seats. The police training in Växjö is currently 90 seats empty. They got 325 seats this spring. I take that as an example. It was 256 who accepted. After a month, 21 police students left for various reasons, and they now have 90 empty seats. I think it is very serious. It is much more important than going around, holding press meetings and promising a new college here and a new college there. It costs hundreds of millions of dollars that the police need for other things. When you start a new police training, it snatches personnel from the intervention and investigative activities, i.e. police instructors from the core business. It's a skill gap that they do every time the minister goes out and promises new police colleges. Even the universities have written about it at DN Debate a year ago. Answer me, Minister: Why is it more important to start new police colleges than to fill the hundreds of empty seats? I have a second question. There is a difference between 83 students. The Minister of Justice does not wish to comment on that figure. It was 624 that was offered a place. Three weeks into the training is 541. It's minus 83 police students. The 541 are of the total 800. Again, it turns out that we do not have a shortage of space in police training. The problem is that for various reasons we are not able to fill those places. We are against, I would like to emphasise, the reductions in demands that you have made during your time as a minister. We are opposed to the Moderates' proposal to split education into two parts. We are also opposed to your and the Social Democrats' proposal to extend it and make it even more theoretical and so-called academic. It's broken theorized. We have even lost almost all the workplace weeks, the internship weeks of the semester. There's hardly any left. Now it's a few days. That is not acceptable.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-504	Mrs. Old President! Now this is a debate. When it is a debate, both speakers have the right to ask questions. Roger Haddad will have to accept that I also ask him some questions. I would like to hear how he really views, for example, the education in Malmö and the Moderates' proposals. Now I got answers to those questions, and it was interesting. Now he says he's against the Moderates' proposal to break up the police force and cut up the education. That's good. So am I. I think it would be a disaster for the development of the police. We'll never go that way. It has been sawed by many, and not least the Police Federation. The moderate proposal on police training will never become a reality, as long as I have something to say about it in any case. It is good that the Liberals also say that. I assume, if there were to be a possible bourgeois government in the future, that you would block it and stop the proposals of the Moderates in that part and that you would be able to stand for it. You have not been very successful under previous alliance governments. Now Roger Haddad says you're giving priority to police training. Last time, you were involved in cutting police training by 90% in two years. You had a peak in 2008 in 1,700 seats. Then you cut down to 142 in two years because the money ran out. You'd cut the tax so much that you didn't have any money left to train cops for. It was the policy of the People's Party and the Alliance Government then. You then went to a much too low level. There were 600, 700 training places a year in an environment where there are only 400, 500 police officers a year. Everyone understands that this equation doesn't make sense. Of course, you are at a much too low level. Now we've doubled that rate. Then Roger Haddad is there again and says: You don't fill all the seats. Oh, my God, you barely had any seats to fill! If you have only a few hundred seats, it is not difficult to fill those seats. It's the easiest thing you can imagine. It is when you take in and say that we need to train thousands per semester that it will be difficult, but at the same time it is necessary to implement. If you don't have places, it's not hard to fill them. That is exactly what the bourgeois government did. This autumn it is 791 that has been offered a place in the new police training. That's the largest number in a very long time. For the next six months starting in spring 2019 we have 11,500 applicants. There's more than ever. Roger Haddad should be glad that so many young people are now going to the police profession. At least I'm happy about it. This suggests that many young people have understood that this is something that Sweden and the government intend to invest very much in the coming years. It happens in the long term and not with this twitchiness that you only increase one year and reduce by 90 percent the following year. It is a long-term venture until 2024. It is about expanding our activities and strengthening the overall tools of criminal law to address some of the concerns we have. I am determined that we will continue to do so and that we will also set aside resources in the future in order to be able to do so. What may bother me most in the debate is that Roger Haddad is now signaling again that he does not want any police training places. I can only say that my assessment is probably that if we hadn't opened up more places of education, we wouldn't have got as many applicants as we got. Through this, we have broadened the recruitment base and thus make it easier for an increasing number of young people to be able to train as a police officer.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-514	Mrs. Old President! The Minister of Justice is talking nonsense. We can show you several training sessions where we were at 700, 800 students. In 2015, you had a total of 600 under your government, and in 2016 you had 850. There were not so many more than we had in 2011 or 2012. But it doesn't matter. It is not the places that are the problem, it is that there are empty seats every semester. It's a waste of resources. Attack the right problem. Make the right demands. Attract the right people, the best and suitable. Fix the recruitment agency's capacity. When we put money in the budget last year, you had zero crowns. We set aside an extra 15 million for three years just to try out more police students. You had zero crowns in your draft budget. Don't come here, Minister of Justice, and lecture me on police training when, for 2017, you proposed an extra 100 million to the entire Police Authority in the Parliamentary Justice Committee. It was only after a year of criticism from the Liberals that you were pressed in spring 2017 – and it is good that the Minister of Finance is now present in the Chamber, Madam President of the Age – and went out and promised more money. The 100 million you had announced before to dismantle the old National Police Board cannot be explained. They are not enough when it comes to what we are debating. They go to something else. All this is post-construction, Minister of Justice. No, you did not give priority to police training in 2015 and 2016. It was not until 2017 that you got your eyes open to start betting on it. Police staffing in Sweden is the lowest in ten years.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-518	Mrs. Old President! When we took office in 2014, we not only took over a far too low-sized police training, where you trained half as many as would have been needed. We also took over a large government financial deficit of 60 billion, I think it was. You would've spent the money. You had no money left, and you borrowed it from foreign bankers. So the first thing we had to do was to make sure that the state finances are settled. Then we could try to make the efforts that need to be made. But it is as usual with the bourgeois parties: For you, it is always tax reductions, tax reductions and tax reductions that do before. During the entire eight-year reign of the Alliance, you reduced the tax by SEK 140 billion. How much did you give to the police? How much did the police's funding increase? That was 5 billion. In addition, you reduced the number of police training places to a level that was not sustainable in the long term. What we have done during this parliamentary term is precisely to ensure that we build up a situation in which there may be 10 000 more police officers. We're hiring more people now. There are 1,100 coming out this year and another 1,300 coming out next year. We're going to come up with 2,000 police officers a year in the future to get through this pace. It's almost embarrassing when Roger Haddad talks about the Recruiting Authority. After all, it was the bourgeois government that abolished military service, and when you did, you also cut down on the recruitment authority of the Total Defence in such a way that you no longer had the capacity to cope with either conscripts or those who would be trained as police officers. We have now doubled capacity, and now we can do this in the future. More kids than ever want to be cops. I think it is extremely positive. But the worst thing that could happen now, Mr President-in-Office, is that we should have another government, which again prioritises tax cuts instead of this activity. With this, Mr. Old President, I'd like to wish Roger Haddad a nice summer.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-525	Mr. Old President! Penilla Gunther has asked me how I see the Swedish Tax Agency charging entrepreneurs for formal errors rather than actual tax evasion and that the Swedish Tax Agency cannot give a clear answer on how to apply the new law. Penilla Gunther also asks what measures I am taking to ensure that the new rules do not limit the possibility for some small businesses to continue to operate and why the Government did not allow the Council to analyse the impact of the proposal. The aim of human resources workers is to help reduce the burden of undeclared work and to create healthier conditions of competition, which also improves the conditions for small businesses to carry out their activities. For those who use undeclared work, they gain competitive advantages over companies that do not. The more companies that use undeclared work, the harder it becomes for companies that want to do the right thing and the greater the risk that this will be eroded. The new rules have not yet been implemented and will enter into force on 1 July 2018. So it is too early now to judge how they will work. Good conditions for businesses and entrepreneurship are a fundamental prerequisite for strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises. Therefore, when the new rules come into force, I will closely monitor their implementation. The task of the Swedish Tax Agency is also to provide the general public and companies with information on how the tax rules are to be applied. I have learned that the Swedish Tax Agency is working on, among other things, a position concerning exemption from the inspection fee for children and relatives of the owner. Control fees shall be charged in the event of failure to comply with the obligation of a staff member. However, no fee shall be charged if the deficiencies are such that they have little impact on the control. The Government's proposal to extend the system of human resources is based on a memorandum from the Swedish Tax Agency. It has, of course, been referred. One of the consultation bodies was the Regulatory Council, which considered that the impact assessment meets the requirements for such a procedure.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-532	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are probably few who have been opposed to the introduction of more human resources in various activities. We see, of course, that the previously introduced human resources in different industries have been quite successful. We can take the hairdressing industry as an example among others. But what has aroused indignation – rightly, I would say – is the proposal that lies in this new law and that will hit the family business in particular hard. I'm something of an outsider, because it's been a long time since I had my own business. But I work daily on entrepreneurship issues, and I notice what is said from some quarters, not least in rural areas. Only the other day we had a debate on rural conditions. So we now want to make the conditions of rural businesses more difficult, for example by introducing requirements for staffing workers who are completely inconsistent with what is actually planned. With regard to the Rule Council's response and its view of the consequences, I can see that the very question I raised in my interpellation has not been looked at. I am very happy that the Government says that the Swedish Tax Agency is now looking at how it will be if family members are to be brought into these staffiers. Let me give you an example that has had a big impact on the Internet. It's about a blog called Sara Bakar and a family business in Slöinge, Halland. Many have read and commented on this post. It is precisely about living and working in your company in the same place. The entrepreneur mentions, among other things, the natural help that the children in the family do when they pass by to pick up something or when they come home from school and see that they can help with something. In this case, therefore, they would not be allowed to do so without being enrolled in the staff league. Then they should also be printed out depending on how many hours or minutes they have been inside the business. This is going to be unhemultimate! It'll be a team that beats completely wrong. We all understand that businesses should not be run with black money or black labour. None of these family entrepreneurs do so, but they want to be able to live on their business as best they can. Now we want to introduce rules that make it more difficult for entrepreneurs, when I think we should instead do what we can to reduce regulatory pressure. This entrepreneur has asked the Swedish Tax Agency and the Ministry of Finance a question and has not received any good answers. I would therefore like to continue with the question to the Government: Is it really so bad that the consequences have not been looked at from the outset, and what will the Tax Agency come up with?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-539	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much for the additional questions. This is a new piece of legislation. Human resources are nothing new, but the training that is being carried out and the fact that this is being extended to more areas is something that is new and that has not yet entered into force. In order to clarify the legislation and how it will be applied, the Swedish Tax Agency will provide information to make it clear to everyone how the Swedish Tax Agency will apply this. We are still waiting for those positions. And when the Tax Agency comes forward with it, which I assume they intend to do before the law comes into force on 1 July, it will not be at all as unclear as it may appear at the moment to the entrepreneurs concerned. The Swedish Tax Agency's guidelines usually lead to a person knowing what to relate to. It is also clear that there should be no charge if the deficiencies are such that it has very little impact on the control. The Tax Agency must apply the legislation in a reasonable manner. That's usually the way it happens. My view is that the Christian Democrats supported this proposal when it was presented. They did not vote against it but supported it. It is important that we have good tax control. The vast majority of entrepreneurs who work in Sweden want to do the right thing. They want to pay taxes and charges the way they should. They do not want black labour but ensure that those who work in the company have safe health insurance, work injury insurance and then receive a pension. It is incredibly important that we can support in different ways all these serious entrepreneurs who want to do the right thing and ensure security for their staff. Then, too, we must pursue in various ways those who do not have the same good purpose. It's always about finding a balanced balance in it. When we introduce rules that will make it more difficult for those who cheat in different ways, it can of course increase the administrative burden also for those who want to carry out serious activities. It is always important to consider how to find the very best balance between them. I understand that there was broad support in Parliament to go forward with this amendment. But it is obviously important that it is applied in a reasonable manner and that we can follow the legal developments in this area so that we can review the legislation if necessary.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-547	Mr. Old President! We still have a real problem here. The entrepreneur Sara, whom I mentioned in my previous speech, has therefore turned to the Swedish Tax Agency and to the Ministry of Finance and asked questions. My party has supported this – sure. But that's not the point. It is a question of hunting those who really need to be hunted because they are not doing their work properly. Rather, there is a snare here for those who want nothing more than to do well. You are afraid that the Swedish Tax Agency will come and do unannounced control and that you will have to pay SEK 12 500 for having happened to forget to enter your own child in the staff league or because Grandma stopped by and happened to help. This feels impractical and out-of-date, and above all, it does not feel like reaching the very people and entrepreneurs who want black labour or making black money. I can quote a little from Saras's conversation with the department. But why is it so important that even family owners are enrolled in the staff league? When and how long we work has no connection to tax evasion? 中 The administrator answers:中 Because the rules on human resources have been misused, when checking happens that those who work black claim to be owners. This will make control easier if everyone is registered, and then we will also have time to carry out more checks. So it is the Swedish Tax Agency that carries out the checks. Sara says, "Okay, it's about making it easier for the controllers...". But is that reason enough to turn life upside down for a majority of responsible entrepreneurs? "Yes, unfortunately, it is necessary that this is the case. All the rules on stricter control mean that those who only make mistakes once or twice can get into trouble. But it is generally the case that everyone gets a better chance because controls counteract tax evasion and unfair competition. Those who cheat should be afraid of being discovered. ..................................................... Yes, but in this case it is probably as I said earlier, that you get more afraid that the Tax Agency will come and do unannounced control and that you will have to pay a huge amount of money for something that you barely understood was important. And as far as I know, we don't have children as labor in this country. I guess children under the age of 13 aren't even supposed to be allowed to work. Then this proposal becomes even more absurd. It should have been realised from the outset that it should be based on the payroll or that it should be recorded who is in the family. For family businesses in particular, exceptions could at least be made. The persons in question also live on the holding. Questions have also been asked by this wise entrepreneur. She got the answer, "Well, there can't be a lot of people living in her restaurant, can there? No, it may not be in the city directly, but in the country it is. I just want an assurance from the government that this is being followed up properly.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-556	Mr. Old President! I can absolutely assure you that we will follow up on this. And we will monitor the application of this legislation. I have learned that the Swedish Tax Agency intends to come out with regulations so that it will be clear to entrepreneurs what applies. I think that's good. It is also important to point out that you do not need to be registered in the staff league because you are staying in the restaurant, but it is precisely if you are doing work. Exactly how those limits are to be drawn will be made clear by the position that the Tax Agency will come out with. Of course, children under 13 who do not work but are still in the premises do not need to be registered in the staff league. This has its background in the fact that there have been problems when the Swedish Tax Agency has come into control and there have not been staff registered in the staff leagues but everyone says they are part of the family. The proposal thus has its background in a situation that the Swedish Tax Agency has experienced when it has been out on control. One good thing about the human resources gypsies is that monthly duties will also be introduced in the employers' declarations from 1 July this year. This, combined with the human resources league, will provide us with even better tools to tackle the undeclared work that exists in various activities. And that is something that will benefit Sara who bakes, but also all the other small businesses who struggle every day to do the right thing and get their businesses to walk around.
i-HxGx8pa5xPeTqbABoFZYYX	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister. For the sake of order, I was on the Swedish Tax Agency's website yesterday, to see how you think about this. It is still June now, and the law is to be introduced from 1 July. There aren't many weeks left. It says, among other things, that if you are required to keep a staff member, you must record information for active persons in the staff league. You should also note information for: 中 yourself as a business manager
i-892823c3b1c4e577-564	This applies to the time you are active, and it only applies if you have others active. ... whatever that means. If you are engaged in several different activities in the same premises, and at least one of them is subject to the obligation to keep staff members, all employees in the premises must be recorded in the staff league. ..................................................... It should be easy to interpret the Swedish Tax Agency's text and the instructions, and the Government decided that there will be more. But I am afraid that this is precisely the instruction for small businesses and family entrepreneurs that has come from the Swedish Tax Agency, and that you will live after in a few weeks' time. Then I still have to ask: Is this reasonable? What happens if you have children over 16 years of age? How do you interpret that? There are interpretation spaces in this text. My final question to the Government is: Will these regulations from the Swedish Tax Agency be affected as soon as possible?
i-892823c3b1c4e577-568	Mr. Old President! The concept of other employees only applies if you have employees in the company, not if you only work in the family. I would like to thank Mrs Gunther very much for raising this issue which is incredibly important. There are many family businesses all over the country. They are found in our metropolitan areas, in our medium-sized cities and around the sparsely populated areas. They conduct fantastic activities in many different ways and in different areas of activity. Like all family businesses, they have the advantage that the ownership structure is secure and long-term in these companies. There are clear advantages to family-owned companies – as an economist I can see that. It is obvious that there should be good conditions in Sweden to run companies in different forms of operations, as well as family businesses. The Swedish Tax Agency will apply these rules from 1 July. Further clarifications will be provided before then. Then we will be able to follow up on how the rules are applied from the government and parliament. I will, of course, follow developments closely. Of course, a balanced balance must be found between the need to pursue those who are not doing the right thing and make it easy to do it right for all those who are trying to do the right thing. We know that it is the vast majority of companies that are doing everything to do the right thing.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-573	Mr. Old President! Jeff Ahl has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to guarantee rural residents the possibility of transporting themselves and their family. This is because the petrol price on 18 May 2018 passed SEK 16 per litre. As the interpellier seems to link the recent rise in prices with the petrol tax, I would like to start by making it clear that there are several factors affecting fuel prices, one of which is one of several. For example, recent price increases can be largely explained by developments in oil prices. I would now like to go on to explain how I see fuel taxation and its consequences. It is true that fuel tax on petrol and diesel has been increased during the government's term of office. There are several reasons for this. One of the reasons is that we inherited a budget deficit at a time when there was a great need for joint investment. The investment needed to be financed and then it was necessary to adjust several taxes. Another reason is that the Government considers it important that the environmental impact of taxes should not be eroded. This was also the reason why we supplemented the already existing indexation of taxation on petrol and diesel with a flat-rate addition of 2 percentage points, in order to take account of developments in GDP. This means that the fuel tax is indexed in the same way as the cut-off point for government income tax. At the same time, the government has made efforts to find measures outside the tax area to achieve the national targets for reducing emissions from the transport sector. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government proposed a reduction obligation that means that environmentally friendly fuels should be mixed into fossil fuels. In connection with the introduction of the reduction obligation on 1 July 2018, the energy and carbon dioxide tax on petrol and diesel will be reduced. It is important that it is possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport alternatives are missing or limited. The Government has therefore increased resources for road maintenance in rural areas by SEK 700 million for the period 2016–2020 and implemented investments in promoting rural public transport by SEK 1,015 million. The Government has also set up a committee to review the travel allowance. The review is carried out to make it easier for those living in rural areas. A starting point for the Committee's work is to draw up rules that will contribute to regional enlargement and thus facilitate labour market mobility. The design will also contribute to the 2030 transport climate target.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-578	Mr. Old President! Magdalena Andersson promised for the 2014 election that the fuel tax would be left untouched. What the voters experienced after the elections was one of the greatest breaches of promises that we have ever seen. Magdalena Andersson has been the most responsible minister to have raised fuel tax at a historical rate. Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats have thus made it a class issue if you are to transport yourself or your family. The reduction obligation that Magdalena Andersson is talking about can risk pushing up the prices for fuel, which among other things the Swedish Environmental Institute has warned about. It is therefore merely an opportunist move in election times, in other words a gamble in the run-up to the elections in order to appear to represent a line that the government is doing something to improve the situation of those living in rural areas. The strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden believes that differentiated fuel taxes are needed to level out the differences in such a fundamental issue as being able to transport from point A to point B. In those parts of Sweden where you are more dependent on the car and where it is the only alternative, fuel costs should be reduced more than anywhere else. In rural areas and in places where public transport will always be non-existent, this is a matter of destiny. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance understands what the tax increases that this government has made in rural areas have meant for ordinary hardworking people with a weak private economic situation. The annual increase in fuel tax implemented by the government during the term of office was intended to cover large holes. It is because of the misrule that both this government and previous governments have been running. This year, Sweden is paying 39 1⁄2 billion to corrupt EU bureaucrats. This government recently chose to give an amnesty to 9 000 asylum-fed, adult Afghan men who have lied about their age. You spend billions on government agencies that are not needed just to give your friends or friends a job. And who pays for the party? Yes, it is the Swedish taxpayer and, above all, the Swedes who live outside the big cities. Swedes outside Stockholm customs should pay extra money and never get anything back for it. The efforts are always absent in rural areas, except when the elections are approaching, when they are thrown into the ordinary order, so also this time. But when the elections are over, the money goes straight into the pockets of corrupt politicians, corrupt heads of government and asylum-fed immigrants who have come here to live the flea on Swedish tax funds. Mr. Old President! I want to know why this government has made the question of being able to transport itself to a class issue. I would also like to know why this government only now, in the last few months before the elections, throws in some chances that sound good but can get a disastrous exchange.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-588	Mr. Old President! The gas price has risen by about SEK 2 over the past year. Of these 2 crowns, 13 cents can be explained by decisions made by this government. It is therefore entirely different from the government's policy that governs the price of petrol. The main reason for the price of petrol is the increased political uncertainty in the world and the decisions taken by US President Donald Trump on the Iran agreement. Perhaps that is the most important reason why the price of oil has risen. Another explanation for the high oil price is the weak crown. A third explanation is that there is usually a certain demand effect during the spring and summer months. The demand for petrol is then slightly higher than it is otherwise. That explains all this except 13 cents of the petrol price increase that has taken place. Of course, this does not prevent many people from reacting to the fact that it is expensive to refuel. This is also done in other countries. In the United States, for example, this is a major issue and it is much debated. Even there, the high price of petrol is not due to Donald Trump's increase in the tax on petrol, but to the other policy he pursues.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-592	Mr. Old President! It is fascinating that the Minister for Finance is not even trying to answer my question about the reduction obligation and the risks it may entail. What if something shows that the government knows that this is a pure and simple gamble that sounds good but that in reality can be a disaster. What credibility does Magdalena Andersson have with all the broken electoral promises? Zero. Why is the reduction obligation imposed just a few months before the elections? Well, because it sounds good, because it actually does. But since it's a pure gamble, you put it so close to the choice that you don't have to evaluate the consequences of the gamble. As the market for biofuels to be blended is limited, there is a risk of a significant increase in demand to drive up costs. This shows that the government is acting in pure panic. The social democrats' tax policy has never been tied together rhetorically and practically. Today we have a taxation system that benefits people with the most money, the richest. They can escape tax through tax planning, which ordinary hardworking people cannot. For example, tax planning has also been committed by government representatives. Among other things, Minister Wallström planned for taxation during her time as an EU bureaucrat. She thus withheld several million SEK from Sweden. Fuel tax is also such an issue. It always hits those with lower incomes than those with higher incomes. Those with higher incomes, such as the Minister and myself, hardly notice the increase, while those with scarce economic margins, especially those in rural areas, need to start cutting back on other things in order to be able to use the car as necessities. Another thing that puts people in the eye is, for example, when SSU Chairman Philip Botström went by taxi from Sälen down to Stockholm for thousands of our common tax funds. Leadership is about leading by example. How climate smart is it to take a taxi from Sälen to Stockholm? Not really. Moreover, why has the government only now begun to talk about lower fuel taxes? You have zero credibility in this matter. You have raised fuel tax at a record rate during your term of office, and now you are taking a chance to make it sound like you are doing something about the problem. Today we have a corrupt political class which, without regard to ordinary people's conditions, makes political priorities wrong. Alternatives for Sweden want to drain the corrupt and political swamp for the benefit of ordinary people. If you vote for Alternatives for Sweden, you also vote for common sense for the Riksdag. Then tax money should go to business serving the people and not the political class we have today. Then people in the countryside should have the same right as others to be able to go to the store, leave the children in kindergarten or go to the BB without having to drain their personal finances altogether. Sweden needs politicians who see the whole of Sweden, because there is a Sweden outside Stockholm customs.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-599	Mr. Old President! The reduction obligation is introduced on 1 July because it is now ready to be introduced. We've investigated the system. It's been out for a referral. We have tabled a bill, and the Riksdag has dealt with the bill. Then, of course, a certain transition time is needed for it to be implemented in a good way. This is something that has been requested for many years by the Swedish industry. It is believed that it creates good and long-term conditions for introducing biofuels in Sweden. It is something that provides jobs and entrepreneurship opportunities throughout Sweden, not least in rural areas. I can only say that Jeff Ahl, by being against the reduction obligation, is also opposed to the long-term approach that this creates for the Swedish biofuels industry, which itself calls for this. With Jeff Ahls's proposal there is a risk that there will be fewer jobs in Swedish rural areas. Jeff Ahl talks a lot about whale frenzy. Whale soda is what you promise before the election. Then let me tell you what the government has actually done. We have increased the resources to the welfare of the whole country by SEK 35 billion. In health care throughout the country, 13 000 more people have been employed. At school, 28,000 more people work. We have smaller groups of frits. We have the smallest children's groups in preschool since the '90s. We have turned deficits into surpluses in public finances. 300,000 more jobs have been created. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. The 90-day guarantee that we promised before the elections has been completed. We have paid off 10 percentage points of the public debt. The proportion of people living on different benefits and benefits is the lowest since 1981. In addition, we have strengthened the finances of families with children by increasing the child benefit by SEK 200. We've increased the maintenance allowance for single parents. We have strengthened pensioners' finances by lowering pensioner's tax, raising the housing supplement, introducing non-contributory primary care for 85-year-olds and introducing cheaper dental care. These were just a few examples. Much of that is what we have gone to elections on, while other things are reforms that we have carried out in addition.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-604	Mr. Old President! Now Magdalena Andersson deliberately lined up a variety of things that the government has done, most of which are pure lies. It is mainly a matter of panic measures that have been taken. I want to break down some of them. You've been running this country for a full term of office. You could have carried out the so-called reduction obligation much earlier. You have not done so, because you know that it is a pure gamble and that it may not have any effect. We know that only reduced fuel tax will have an effect. This is what Alternatives for Sweden want to see. The welfare efforts that the Minister of Finance is talking about have been a total panic response due to the mass immigration wave that washed over Sweden in 2015 and that the government passively saw without taking any action whatsoever. No, the Minister for Finance, the children's groups at preschool have not become smaller. I have children myself in preschool and I talk to parents who have children in preschool. Don't stand and lie to the Swedish people right in the face! That's why you're falling like a rock in public opinion. People are beginning to see through your repeated lies. Cheaper dental care, said the Minister of Finance. No, it has not become cheaper dental care for the elderly, not if you compare with the illegal ones you give dental care for 50 crowns. By comparison, pensioners still have to pay thousands of dollars. Sweden needs a party that sees the whole of Sweden, and Sweden needs a party with common sense in the Riksdag. As the only party in the elections, we want to introduce differentiated and reduced fuel taxes. Reduced fuel tax is one of the most important issues for Swedes living in rural areas so that they can stay and work in their home country. Please, Magdalena Andersson, don't lie to me again! You've been seen through.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-611	Mr. Old President! Is everything that doesn't match Jeff Ahls's personal experience a lie? Or is truth what appears in public statistics? Based on statistics and facts, children's groups in Sweden have been the smallest since the 1990s. Then Jeff Ahls's personal experiences may look different, but of course it depends on whether you want to build your arguments based on statistics and facts or the personal experience that suits you at the moment. You can have different approaches to politics. However, we have introduced an increased dental allowance for pensioners, regardless of what Jeff Ahl says. It's in the budget bill. It is something that has been put through here in Parliament. Therefore, it is probably a little difficult to claim that it is a lie and that it does not exist, because it exists. But if you feel that the earth is flat rather than round, it is of course free to claim that the earth is flat, so also in the Parliament's pulpit. Thank you for the debate.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-614	Mr. Old President! Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that insurance companies have clear information for policyholders when requesting the payment of insurance policies. He has also asked me whether I intend to take any steps to strengthen consumer protection for policyholders. The question is whether the conditions of survivor's protection in pension insurance can cease to apply contrary to the wishes of the policyholder. First of all, I would like to point out that it is a starting point in Swedish contract law that a mutual will is required from all parties to amend an already concluded agreement. Otherwise, no valid change will occur. However, I cannot comment on what has happened in this case. Generally speaking, pension insurance usually lasts for a very long time. The family situation or priorities of the policyholder can change throughout life. He or she may therefore have different desires in terms of survivor's discipline d during different periods of life. A policyholder who opts out of survivors' protection generally receives a higher remuneration. On the other hand, a person who chooses a survivor's protection ensures that the survivors receive better compensation. It would therefore be unfortunate to restrict the consumer's choice as regards the protection of survivors. It goes without saying, however, that the policyholder must be able to understand the choices he or she faces. It is therefore my firm opinion that the rules in this area should make demands. They are also designed to do so. If a condition formulated by an insurance company is unclear, it shall be interpreted in the consumer's favour in the event of a dispute. The Insurance Contracts Act requires insurance companies to provide clear and clear information throughout the insurance period. In addition, the Insurance Business Act requires an insurance company to operate in accordance with good insurance standards. The Financial Supervisory Authority's general advice indicates that insurance companies' information should be designed to facilitate decisions that policyholders may have to make. There is therefore already a requirement for the information to be provided by insurance companies before and during the insurance period. At present, therefore, I do not see any need for specific legislative measures in relation to information on payments from an insurance policy. Insurance companies always have a responsibility to provide clear information. I am, of course, following the question.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-622	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister Heléne Fritzon, for your answer! This is an issue on which I am absolutely convinced that we are basically in complete agreement. Both Social Democrats and Moderates certainly believe that consumers should have a high level of consumer protection. The reason I woke up this interpellation is that local media back home have written about the totally unreasonable consequences of a dying man missing to fill in a cross on a form. It's about a man who had spent his whole life saving up a pretty big fortune – over 800 000 crowns. The person concerned became seriously ill and requested payment of his or her insurance. The man then missed filling in a cross. It was a lack of clarity that led to the relatives not inheriting the man but that the insurance company's other policyholders received the 800 000 crowns that were the man's life savings. It doesn't make any sense. Then the outcome and reality become something other than our intentions. So I and the Government agree that it should be good information, that the information should be clear and that the consequences of not ticking a box, as in this case, should be clear and predictable. I have gone to myself: Could I make the same mistake? Yeah, probably. Although I have been a policyholder's representative in an insurance company for over ten years, I too could have missed this box. With today's modern technology, it is likely that our authorities would require insurance companies to provide individual information and that insurance companies should, on a form, of course ask which account they want the money on. If you are going to be able to opt out of a survivor's protection, it should be very clear on an individual form, for example: You sure you don't want to fill out this box? It depends on what kind of payment system you should have. This also raises the question of how small the policyholder is against a large insurance company. In this case, and in other cases relating to the same thing, it may not be unreasonable to think that relatives would even get the right in court proceedings, but because a loss would cost an enormous amount, one does not dare go to court. Even if you have gone to a lawyer and even if you think you are going to get the right, you become very small against the individual insurance company, and that is something we should also consider: how do we strengthen the consumer's protection, both in terms of the design of forms, information requirements and what happens in the event of a dispute? I think it is very unfortunate that it can happen at all in Sweden that a mistake when it comes to filling in a cross on a form leads to the relatives losing 850 000 SEK. Even if there were two ticks, that is to say that the insurance company has sent out a form and you have missed the information, it is still very unclear and unfortunate. I am pleased that the Minister says that she is following developments and that we agree that we should have a high level of consumer protection. What we may not agree on is that nothing needs to be done. I think we should look at this, and I think very well that the Swedish Consumer Agency can act on this issue and ensure that insurance companies have individual information and not just a general checkbox.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-631	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question which is a very important issue of principle for consumers. However, as Lars Beckman knows, I am prevented from commenting on the individual case. Pension insurance is usually valid for a very long period of time. Since it is valid for a long time and you often sign it as a very young person, it may be that during certain periods of life you make a certain assessment and then you find that there are several people who you want to mark are economically dependent on the insurance. Then a survivor's protection is important in order to create security. During other periods of life, you may come to a different assessment, that is, you do not have the same need for survivors' protection. It can also change if you are a cohabiting person or a married person or if living conditions generally change. That is why the government sees it as reasonable that an insurance company should also be able to remind the insured person to consider the issue of a survivor's protection in connection with the contacts it has with the insured person. After all, survivors' protection is an active choice. I think that many people can understand and understand the situation that it is perhaps impossible to remember the assessment they made when you were 35 years old when you were 30 – 40 years later is in the situation when the insurance is to be paid out for one reason or another. If the consumer is not asked how he or she views his or her survivor's protection, that can in itself lead to problems. I don't think Lars Beckman really has a different opinion there. But if we take the idea further with the question asked by Lars Beckman, in which case you would only ask information about the account number to be paid out to, you have skipped the point where you ask an active question again to the policyholder. By not asking the question, there is a clear risk that other problems will also be created along the way. Insurance is currently widespread in society. Insurance legislation is designed precisely to allow product freedom. The question to be asked can be asked in different ways depending on which insurance company formulates it. But the important thing is that it is clearly regulated that information should be provided and questions should be asked. These are requirements that are clearly imposed on insurance companies. It is important to have the starting point to comply with the existing regulatory framework for strengthening and monitoring consumer protection.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-636	Mr. Old President! We therefore agree that there should be a high level of consumer protection. We agree on a great deal on this issue. On the other hand, I am not as sure, as the Government claims, that there is no need to take any action at all. In this case – and there are certainly more cases – an unclear form, which is not individually adapted, has led to the problem in my constituency. With an individual form, it can be made clear that if you do not check the box, this means that more than SEK 850 000 will be allocated to the other policyholders. With today's modern technology, we can very well impose higher demands on insurance companies on how they design forms and information. I think the vast majority of us have been in a position to fill in something at the bank. True, there are three signatures, but they are forty - eleven forms with a hundred paragraphs. Unfortunately, it may be unclear. It is important that we as politicians push for simple, predictable forms that are easy to understand. It is offensive when someone misses filling in two crosses and it has such huge private economic consequences. I know that there are other insurance companies on the market who at the time of payment only ask the question: What account number do you want the money for? It would not have that consequence. If, historically, there is an insurance company that has many customers who miss the tick on the form, it can lead to a distortion of competition on the market where the refund rate is higher on one insurance company than on another because many policyholders do not get the money paid to the relatives. This is an issue that needs to be followed up.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-641	Mr. Old President! As I said in my last speech, Lars Beckman, there is product freedom in this area. I do not really believe that it is the view of the Moderates that we should not protect it, namely that insurance companies are free to construct new insurance products and compete with the conditions of their insurance policies. With such a background, it will be difficult to regulate in detail the exact form and information to be provided at a certain stage on a particular product for the policyholder. Such detailed regulation could apply to several cases but could also become directly inappropriate in other cases. But that does not mean that simply because there is no detailed regulation, insurance companies are free to do what they want. On the contrary, there are strict rules in the field of insurance. They are often generally designed, and companies are obliged to provide information at different stages throughout the insurance period. It also requires that this information be clear and clear. Without commenting on the present case, which is the reason for the honourable Member's question, I imagine that when a question of ambiguity or dispute arises, we will surely go back and wonder whether the right information has been given and whether it can be made easier for the consumer. When you are going to determine ambiguities or what should happen when insurance companies do not live up to the rules and there are disputes, yes, then there is an interpretation that should be done to the benefit of the consumer. In addition, the Consumer Ombudsman may submit to an insurance company how the company should provide information in the event of deficiencies. Such an injunction may be combined with a penalty payment. In addition, there is also the possibility for Finansinspektionen to intervene. There are many provisions in Swedish law that aim to protect consumers from unfair behaviour by insurance companies. I am very happy about that, and it is important that they exist. The rules shall be designed to provide consumers with the best possible information at all times. However, against the background of the question, there is reason for both the Government and the Riksdag to follow the matter further.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-645	Mr. Old President! In spite of the extensive regulatory framework that exists, and despite the information requirements that exist today, things have gone wrong, at least in some cases, where the insurance company has obviously not been sufficiently clear in its information. We fully agree that there should be product freedom, we fully agree that it should be a market economy and we fully agree that there should be a high level of consumer protection. Regardless of the government this autumn, we need to look at requirements for individually designed information. With today's modern technology, it must be relatively easy to make demands that it is Heléne Fritzon's unique insurance data that applies in the information that is to go out and that I will take a position on. It becomes clear that if I don't tick the boxes it means XY kroner falls to the other policyholders in the insurance company. It would not be a very large increase for insurance companies, but it would be a very good consumer information for the consumers affected by the issue. I also find it offensive when relatives say that they are afraid or unable to process against the big insurance company because the private financial consequences would be so huge if they lost. This means that there is consumer protection on paper, but the question is whether it can be applied in practice. However, we definitely need to make demands for even simpler and clearer payment conditions. This is an issue that we generally need to look at in consumer law. How can we ensure that there are clear and simple conditions? It's probably someone who has a bought an app at some point, and then you should press three times on the phone– and few have read the update. I feel the same is true of the insurance industry and banking conditions.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-649	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking Lars Beckman for the question. It is an important consumer policy issue, as I said at the outset. It is also important for me and for the government, in connection with this issue, to clarify the legal framework for informing the policyholder, that is to say the consumer, particularly in relation to pension insurance, which is to be applied over a long period of time and where the conditions may differ during different periods of life. Much of the question has been about the value of information. Work on information must always go on. Information is extremely important for the consumer. It has been a good debate. I can see that we agree on the regulatory framework that exists, but there is reason to keep following the issue so that the consumer perspective is in focus. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-653	Mr. Old President! Kent Ekeroth has asked me why the government has not proposed amendments to the Aliens Act that make expulsion compulsory when a foreigner is convicted of a crime, or makes expulsion the general rule so that the proportion that is expelled at least greatly increases. Swedish courts are today expelling foreigners because of crimes according to the provisions of the Aliens Act. In 2017, 717 people who were convicted of crime were deported. In assessing whether deportation is a reasonable legal effect of crime, the court must take several forms. A foreigner may be expelled if he or she is convicted of a crime that may lead to imprisonment. If the person has not previously committed a crime, a greater demand is made for the seriousness of the crime. Normally, the sentence is required to exceed one year's imprisonment. A person may not, on the other hand, be deported to a country where he is at risk of being subjected to the death penalty, torture, persecution or other degrading or inhumane treatment or punishment. The order we have today is well balanced in order to ensure a reasonable proportionality between offences, penalties and special legal effects in the form of expulsion. It is reasonable to call for a more serious crime or a risk of continued crime in order to expel a foreigner, particularly in cases involving previously unpunished persons. The government has taken measures in the field of criminal law, which may lead to more expulsions. For example, consent legislation will mean that more abuse will be judged as rape. As a result, the penalty can be such that prosecutors can demand expulsion. We are prepared to look into this issue in order to correct any shortcomings in the current system.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-658	Mr. Old President! I have here today the pleasure of ending my sejour in the Swedish Parliament with the same question with which I began my career, the one on the expulsion of criminal foreigners. A motion on this was one of the first that I presented immediately after our parliamentary session in 2010, and I have presented one every year since then, although of course I have developed the issue in writing. The debates I have had in this House for many years since then have sounded almost exactly the same as the Minister for Migration, unfortunately, now sounds. It has been a cavalcade of either obscenity, as we see here today, or outright opposition to my proposals. The other parties that have criticised me over the years have seemed to care about the foreign criminals but not so much about the victims, which I am defending. Unfortunately, it is symptomatic of this House. Today we see the same thing. No, it is not enough to say that measures have been taken in the field of criminal law, or to recite what the law says today. We are here to change the law; we are not here to keep something that does not work. Moreover, rape is not a concept in the new consent law, but is called sexual abuse. The courts and prosecutors will still have plenty of room not to expel anyone despite serious crimes. The law governing this, the Aliens Act, obviously has no interest in tightening up. It's typical of sick leaves – it's always too little or too late or nothing at all. Let me take some examples of how the law defended by the Minister works today. In 2010, a Somali was given a year and a half in prison – that is, over a year, as the Minister spoke about here – for attempted rape. He was certainly expelled in the sentence, but what happened? Well, the expulsion was later lifted, and he was granted a residence permit instead. Then what happened? Well, after he was allowed to stay in our country, he sexed a woman in a hospital, broke a water mixer, and gave a man a fist punch in the face. The second time, the prosecutor didn't even press for expulsion. That's a problem. A 37-year-old man who should have been expelled – no country wanted to receive him; that's a problem that I get into my next post – committed three weeks after his prison sentence new crimes. He stabbed an addict to death in Malmö because you let him go free of our country. On August 26, 2017, a woman was raped and beaten at a hostel in Gällivare. The sentence was two years in prison, the minimum punishment for rape. It is beyond the limit of a year that the Minister is talking about. However, the District Court rejected the deportation request on the basis of the situation in the African country. That is totally unacceptable. On 9 December 2017, an African raped a woman in Uppsala. He was given a year and three months in prison, again over the one-year limit mentioned by the Minister. He didn't have to be expelled because the district court didn't think rape was rough enough. Eva, 60 years old, was stuttered to death by an immigrant who should have been expelled back in 1997 but who for over 20 years had been able to delay expulsion because of the lax rules that Sweden has. This means that we have one person smaller in Sweden. A 56-year-old Arab raped a seven-year-old. He got two and a half years in prison but is welcome to come back to Sweden in ten years' time, because he got a fixed-term expulsion. On December 2, 2017, a Syrian raped a 15-year-old girl. He went to prison for two and a half years. The D.A. never pleaded for expulsion. It's going on. Serious crimes. They're not being expelled. What did the Minister say – that we have balanced legislation? It is not reasonable to defend legislation that allows these monsters to remain in our country. But I am not surprised that the government says it is a balanced piece of legislation. It's not news after these four years. So did Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson when he was Minister of Migration. So did the alliance government, for that matter. There is only one party that has tried to do something about it, and it is the Swedish Democrats. That is regrettable, for you allow these monsters to ravage our country.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-672	Mr. Old President! Kent Ekeroth opens the debate on his interpellation by saying that he asked the same question when he began his parliamentary career as he asked today. Let me take this opportunity to state that, on the substance of the matter, developments have gone much better than they have for Kent Ekeroth's parliamentary career. According to the order we have in Swedish courts today, it is possible to decide on expulsions due to crime, and Kent Ekeroth knows that. It is a myth that the Swedish Democrats are spreading throughout Sweden that we do not expel people who commit crimes. As I said in my introduction, over 700 people have been deported due to crimes in 2017. Since 2015, there has been an increase of 43 percent. It is a development in which the courts make the assessment, based on the legal framework we have today, that they can decide on expulsions due to crime. Almost 60 such cases are handled a month. It is clear that we should deport whenever possible and appropriate. But the first time Kent Ekeroth put this question to my predecessor Morgan Johansson, it was quite clear that Kent Ekeroth thinks that everyone should be thrown out of the rule of law only Sweden. That is why I have two questions back. Does Kent Ekeroth think that we have legislation that lives up to Sweden being a rule of law? If he does not think so, what is it if the Swedish Democrats want to change? There may also be obstacles to deportation. It may be that if you have committed a crime in Sweden with a penalty value in which the court considers that expulsion can be used, an exception can be made if the person is at risk of being subjected to the death penalty or torture in the country to which the person is to be expelled. Is this the obstacle that Kent Ekeroth and the Swedish Democrats want to remove? Do you want to send people directly to death from the rule of law Sweden? This is clear. This is a clear policy of democracy in Sweden. From the government we stand up because Sweden is a rule of law. It is important that there is a good balance between the reactions of a crime and the seriousness of the crime. It is also important that we safeguard that this is a tool that can be used by courts when one sees that it is necessary and urgent to expel because of crime. Today, the trend is towards the deportation of more people as a result of crime. At the same time, I have said that we are prepared to take a closer look at this. We are doing so on the basis of the government's overall view of combating crime, increasing the penalty values for a number of crimes and following up and ensuring that one is punished if one commits serious crimes.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-680	Mr. Old President! The Social Democrats have a fad to talk numbers and not percentages – as if 700 deportees a year would be a great success. Is there something to hang on the Christmas tree? I produced statistics from the parliamentary investigation service, which show that of the foreigners who committed such serious crimes in 2015, they ended up in prison in Sweden, and thus normally received a penalty value of one year or more, Sweden retained 83 per cent in the country. Only 17% received an expulsion order. If you break it down into different categories of crime, you can see that we kept 92% of those who committed violent crimes and 78% of those who committed sexual offences. That's the proportion you have to talk about, instead of being proud of a few 700. The Crime Prevention Council has concluded that in 2014 only 11 per cent of non-residents were expelled, and 0.5 per cent of those registered in the population register. So is this something that the Social Democrats boast and think is good? Heléne Fritzon asked two questions: the rule of law. In a rule of law, a fair trial should be given. That's why we have the courts. She claims that the courts can already deport and babble that Kent Ekeroth knows about it. But that is the problem: they do not show enough. What does the Minister think we are discussing here? That the courts don't have the possibility at all? No, it's that too low a percentage is expelled. Therefore, the legislator must go in and ensure that the scope for them not to deport is reduced. This was evident in my interpellation. I don't even know what she's talking about, to be completely honest. What do we have to do about this? That's what I've been suggesting. I don't know if the minister's done any research-- it doesn't seem that way. I'll draw it again so everyone can hear it: This could have been implemented a long time ago, but you have refused. As a result, you still have them in the country, in our streets and squares, despite rape convictions, which I raised, despite murder and repeated crime. You have a responsibility even if, arrogantly as usual, you pretend you don't have it. You actually have blood on your hands. If you had taken foreigners into custody, even if they had not committed crimes under the Criminal Code, two people who were stabbed on Ikea by an immigrant who had been rejected would have lived. The five who died and the ten who were seriously injured in Akilov's terrorist crime would have been alive and well today, if it were not for your policy and your unwillingness to listen to the only ones who have understood what this country needs. It is your indifference that has done this. Every day illegal immigrants and criminal foreigners run freely on our streets, and Swedes are allowed to put their lives to death. You're an accomplice. In a just world, you would also have to take responsibility for what you have done to this beautiful country and people. But unfortunately, you, Heléne Fritzon, can stand here again today pretending to be raining and ignoring the suffering that your decisions, or the lack of decisions, have inflicted on so many people in this country. Mr. Old President! I will never forget, and I will never forgive.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-690	Mr. Old President! Let me begin by objecting to the fact that the Member of Parliament, Kent Ekeroth, chooses to formulate it as the Council of State's babbling. I do not think this is worthy. The Government is present in the Riksdag to answer questions asked by Members of Parliament. This means, of course, that I am also responding to Kent Ekeroth, who represents the Swedish Democrats, although I know so well what the question is basically about. Although the Swedish Democrats are Sweden's most criminal parliamentary group, Kent Ekeroth always manages to turn the question around so that it is only about immigrants and foreigners committing crimes in Sweden. The government has a focus on fighting crime, hiring more police officers and tightening up the penalties, and also on expulsion when crimes are committed. It is then the courts that will determine the nature and punishment of the crime and then expel it. With regard to the direct question put by Kent Ekeroth, it is also the case that Sweden is a rule of law when it comes to humanitarian matters. Sweden is the best country in the world to follow and respect all international regulations. There are fundamental rights and freedoms, which I wish Kent Ekeroth once chose to read. It is made very clear that a foreigner who has committed a crime must not be deported to a country where he is in danger of being subjected to the death penalty or torture, persecution or other degrading or inhumane treatment or punishment. This follows the Swedish Government, and I am very proud of that.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-695	Mr. Old President! It is not difficult to turn and turn, as the Minister calls it. Just talk the facts – statistics that SCB has and that RUT produces. It is not difficult; it is just to tell the truth. Then she can call it turning and turning. But we Swedish democrats are used to the truth, and you are not in the same way. All you have to do is regret it. The official policy of the Swedish democrats is to expel terrorists, whether they receive the death penalty in their own country or not. We launched this already in 2015, and we are proud of it. If you came here to murder, abuse or rape people, you might have thought about what would happen if you were sent home. That's not our problem anymore. The fact that you are bound by some stupid international agreements that will keep you terrorists, rapists and murderers in this country is only to be regretted. Mr. Old President! I would like to end by taking this opportunity to thank all the SD voters and active people and those out there in the country who have cruised me for your support over all these years. It warms up, and I hope and believe that I have well cared for your trust in this House. I would also like to thank all the officials in Parliament, who I think have done an amazing job, and of course everyone in Säpo's if I have worked with over the years. Looking back, however, you have to say that I have been rather forward-looking about what this country needs. This is such a question. I have put forward proposals that the whole establishment, including the Social Democrats, has barked at – and sometimes even my own party – but my proposals were finally adopted to a very large extent, not least by the Social Democrats. It feels good that they have made a difference, pushed the issues and actually contributed to a change during the eight years that have passed, but also in the future when the Swedish Democrats in the future can benefit from my proposals. Now I leave this Parliament for this time. But the struggle to save this country from the left-wing liberals and the invasion from foreign countries that they have invited will continue all my life, I believe. Now I get to have that fight in a slightly different way, but to all Sweden friends out there I can only say: Fight on! It will take a long time and requires brave and tough decisions to turn Sweden around, so stand up!
i-892823c3b1c4e577-702	Mr. Old President! Today I have answered the same question from Kent Ekeroth that he asked three years ago. It has been largely the same debate, but possibly with the conclusion that if you are in favour of persons who are directly subject to the death penalty being expelled, you are also reasonably arguing for the death penalty in Sweden. There can be no difference between crimes committed by people born in one place or another. I have, and I am very grateful for that, had reason to account for the government's work in maintaining a system for Swedish justice in which we take account of the international agreements and conventions. We follow them. We are also following developments very closely in order for crime to be prosecuted. Expulsion is an important part of fulfilling the penalty imposed by a court of law is reasonable. A crime and a penalty can be grounds for expulsion. Thank you very much for the opportunity to answer this question today.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-706	Mr. Old President! Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I and the government intend to make it punishable even for others than Swedes to be married to several people in Sweden. The provisions of the marriage code mean that the person who is already married must not enter into a new marriage. It follows from our international private law that it is also not possible for persons related to Sweden in the form of citizenship or domicile to circumvent the Swedish rules by entering into polygamy in another country and then get it recognised here. There is also a ban in the penal code on the one who is already married against entering a new marriage and on the one who is unmarried against marriage to someone who is already married. The offence is referred to in the text of the law. It is important to understand that Swedish law is strict in relation to polygamy. The Government commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency, assisted by the Finnish Immigration Service and Statistics Sweden, to compile and analyse statistics on the prevalence of polygamy in population registers. The report presented earlier this year by the Swedish Tax Agency shows that there are persons registered as married to more than one person in the population register. This is, of course, problematic, not least from the perspective of gender equality. Most of the registered marriages have been concluded abroad by persons without previous ties to Sweden. When marriage was concluded, they have not had reason to relate to our Swedish rules. Such polygamy is normally not punishable in Sweden and should not be. Instead, the question is whether marriages should last here. I think we all share the point of departure that polygamy should not be allowed in Sweden. The government, as I previously announced, will have an investigation look at how recognition of foreign polygamy can be hindered in Sweden. These are very complex issues. I look forward to coming back with directives on the recognition of foreign polygamy and the consequences for individuals.
i-G1BxyRt2wBssywUgUmfEPG	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Heléne Fritzon, for your answer! I share the point of departure that polygamy should not be allowed in Sweden. However, I do not share the view that bigami would be a particularly complex issue on which it is difficult to legislate. Moreover, legislation already exists. Bigami is not allowed in Sweden. I think this should apply to everyone, no matter where you come from. Only this little change really needs to be made. The strangest thing is that bigamy is forbidden to those who do not ask for it, while the ban does not apply to those who actually ask to be married to others. In principle, there are no Swedes who want marriage for many. Of course, there are people who voluntarily choose to live with others, but these people basically never ask to be married. If you come here and say you have several wives, you should be informed that this is illegal in Sweden. So if you want to continue living in polygamy, you have to leave the country. If you want to stay, only one marriage should be registered and valid. If several wives are present in Sweden, only marriage with the person you married should be valid. For me, it is fundamental that the person entering a marriage should have said yes to the other party, or parties, of the marriage, as it is in this case. If you haven't said yes, the marriage should not be valid in Sweden. In this case, several other persons are included in the marriage, but women have only had the opportunity to say yes or no to the husband, not to the other women in the marriage. Thus, these marriages should not be counted as valid in Sweden. Otherwise, there are many similarities with the issue of child marriage, which we will debate later. It is about the same oppressive cultures, where women have very little say and where marriage is a way for women to be supported. There is also a big difference in the fact that bigami is banned for real in Sweden and has a penalty attached to it. Just explain to the person who comes here that it is punishable, and if the person then does not want to conform to our way of life, it should be the whole hand out. The government chooses to protect Swedish girls from polygamy, but immigrants are left to their fate. There you do not see the same need for protection as when it comes to us Swedes. There was a previous investigation, or rather the Swedish Tax Agency was commissioned to find out how many there were in Sweden who were married to several of them. I think this was a rather pointless task because we already knew that there were people in Sweden who were married to several. If it is then one, a hundred or a thousand does not really matter so much, because what is needed is still legislation that covers all people in Sweden and makes it impossible for everyone to be married to more than one. I would like the government to take this on board and introduce such legislation, but as the four years of the term of office have soon passed, this government will not be able to do so.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-720	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Mikael Eskilandersson for the question. It is a very important issue, and there should be no doubt whatsoever about where the government stands on the issue of polygamy. Multiple marriages are very problematic, not least from the perspective of gender equality, and must be countered in every way. But let me still give you a background. As always with the Swedish Democrats, when you ask questions and make comments, it will be the simple ones. We should remember that Swedish law is already very strict when it comes to polygamy and the marriages that Mikael Eskilandersson refers to in his question. We have clear rules against polygamy in the marriage code, foreign law, criminal law and our private international law. There is no thought of being lax in any way. But it is impossible to debate with the Swedish Democrats if we do not have the conditions. What Mikael Eskilandersson actually raises in his question is the exception that exists in the regulation we have in our international private law and which makes it possible in some cases to recognise the polygamy in Sweden. It is about polygamy that has been entered into in another country a long time ago, with people who have no previous connection to Sweden. So they had no idea that they would eventually end up in Sweden. This does not mean that in a Swedish context we think that polygamy is better because it has happened in another country and in another time. But we have a responsibility to relate this to Swedish legislation. It is precisely this mission that we in the government see that we need to investigate and look at more. We need to look at how we in Sweden can prevent these marriages from continuing, despite the fact that the people involved are missing links with Sweden when the marriage was concluded. It is very easy for the Swedish Democrats to stand in the speaker's seat and be critical and come up with the simple solutions. But this is legislation. These are also international commitments. Therefore, it is important for us in the government that we have facts and knowledge. And that's why the commission was given to the IRS. Mikael Eskilandersson has been given access to this report and knows that it is also difficult to relate there. What kind of marriage is registered? This is a relatively small number, but in that number there are differences in how you describe the background to your registration. My message is: this is an important issue for the government. There is currently work in progress on drawing up directives for the investigation, which has the sole task of reviewing how we can prevent foreign polygamy from being recognised in Sweden in the future. That is my very clear answer.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-727	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that Heléne Fritzon thinks this is an important issue and that she intends, if she is allowed to remain after the election or how we should see it, to actually continue to work for polygamy to become illegal in Sweden. At least that's how I perceive her answer. This is not the first time I have asked questions about marriage rules and the right to choose a partner. I asked Åsa Regnér a question already in 2015 about everyone's right to choose a partner. She said something about what Heléne Fritzon said today: that these issues are taken seriously and that they intend to come back. It's just that time tends to run away. It doesn't happen much. There is a lot that will come back sometime in the future. It is a future that is hardly there for the government that is sitting today, as I see it. We have an election in the fall. Majority relations are likely to change a great deal. What the government looks like afterwards, no one really knows. Today, what I do not know is a complete investigation into polygamy. This is something that has not even come to the investigative stage yet. That being said, I think it is strange, given that it is an important issue, that it is constantly being pushed into the future.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-730	Mr. Old President! Mikael Eskilandersson says in his last speech that he wants polygamy to become illegal in Sweden. Then I want to be very clear and say: Many marriages are illegal in Sweden. It is extremely important that we agree on this. What we are discussing and debating is the possibility of not recognising in the future the marriages that have been concluded in another country, under different conditions and at a different time, when one did not know that the new home country would become Sweden. That is a completely different question. Let us stick to it, Mikael Eskilandersson, so that we have the right debate! This issue has been dealt with together with the Riksdag during this parliamentary term, as the Member of Parliament, Mr Eskilandersson, is well aware. As early as spring 2017, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice was invited to the Civil Committee to explain the issue of polygamy. We also have announcements from the Riksdag that we have worked on from the government. Last autumn, 2017, the Swedish Tax Agency was given the Government's task to review what it really looks like with recognition and the presence of polygamy in population records. That is the question we are talking about: that today we have an opportunity to recognise marriages that people have entered into in another country without knowing that the new country would become Sweden. I have then very clearly announced that the government will set up an investigation. We are working on the directives in the direction that the process, together with Parliament, has meant during this parliamentary term. I look forward to being able to come back on this issue later and also during the next parliamentary term.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-734	Mr. Old President! Yes, it is illegal in Sweden, but it is not illegal for everyone. That's the concern. That is the main point of my question. These exceptions are made which I do not really see any reason to do. One can always refer to the fact that we have international conventions and so on. However, there are exceptional rules in the international conventions that allow them to be abandoned if it is contrary to a country's view of marriage — public order, as it is called. This should definitely be exploited when it comes to this type of marriage. These marriages have basically never come about by the fact that a woman herself has chosen to marry several other persons. The vast majority of the women involved would prefer to marry only man and woman. I know that the Committee on Civil Liberties has been a driving force. I myself am on the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and I would say that I am one of those who have really pushed these issues there. I will continue to pursue these issues in the next parliamentary term. I hope that in the next parliamentary term we will have to do more than the government has done during this parliamentary term. I think the outcome of this parliamentary term is far too bad.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-737	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank you for the question. It has given me, from the government's side, an excellent opportunity to clarify how we are working on the issue of polygamy being registered in Swedish censuses. It has also given me the opportunity to argue in a very clear and clear way for and demonstrate that there should be no doubt as to where the government stands on the issue of polygamy. I look forward to the directives that I shall be able to present in relation to the investigation that will have a mandate to limit the possibility of registering polygamy in Sweden.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-739	Mr. Old President! Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me how I imagine that the ban on child marriage should work and what penalties anyone who violates the ban can expect. The government takes very seriously the existence of child marriages, forced marriages and surrounding issues of honour-related violence and oppression. Children aren't supposed to be married. They are to be children and live in freedom from the responsibility of adult life. Child marriage is a violation of the human rights of girls and women. Such marriages hinder equality and limit women's empowerment. The abolition of child marriage is therefore a matter of great concern to the government. Compared to many other countries, Sweden has strict legislation regarding child marriage. Under 18-year-olds may not enter into marriage in Sweden under any circumstances. The starting point is also that a foreign child's allowance is not recognised here if one of the parties had a connection here at the time of the marriage. However, it is clear that legislation still contains too large gaps to effectively combat child marriage. Therefore, the government is now proposing legislative changes that include no children in Sweden to be considered married in the future. According to the proposal, which was submitted to the Law Council last week, a general ban on the recognition of foreign child marriages in Sweden is to be introduced. The prohibition shall apply regardless of the affiliation of the parties to Sweden and regardless of how old they are when the question of recognition is examined. For those who are still children, the ban shall apply without any exceptions. The proposal means that protection against child marriage will apply to everyone in our society. At the same time, it is a clear stand against child marriage. An important complement to civil protection against child marriage and forced marriages is criminal law. In 2014, new criminal law rules were introduced to strengthen protection against such marriages. The Government has set up an investigation to evaluate these rules and decide whether they need to be clarified, expanded or amended in any other way. The assignment will be reported at the end of the summer. The government therefore intends to return to these issues.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-743	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to thank Heléne Fritzon for her answer to this interpellation as well. The issue of child marriage is very similar to what we discussed in the past, but also to large differences. The biggest difference is that there is no actual punishment for or law against child marriage in Sweden today. However, I think that the government seems more interested in making it sound like it is acting forcefully than in actually acting. Returning to the matter has been a little of the government's standing response throughout this term of office. As I mentioned, I have asked these kinds of questions twice before. One time Åsa Regnér replied in 2015, and the second time Morgan Johansson replied in 2017. Even then it was said that you would come back. Although Heléne Fritzon starts by saying that the issue of child marriage is being taken seriously, I cannot help but wonder how the government has pushed the issue forward for almost the entire term of office. If we are to be honest, the government has acted more as a brake than as a driver during this parliamentary term. When the Civil Committee tried to push ahead, it was the government parties that fought against the Civil Committee and tried to get texts on exemptions for free movement. Only after the battle against the Civil Committee was lost did they start talking about total ban, but then it seemed more about being worried about public opinion than that they really wanted to change something. The children who were actually married in Sweden at the time of the government's accession will never get any help from this government unless they were very young. Even the 15-year-olds who were married at the time of government entry can reach 18 before any ban on child marriage can enter into force. It is more an attempt to prevent children from being registered as married in Sweden. That is far from the ban I would like to see. What Sweden needs is a real ban, with clear consequences for those who violate the ban. Anyone who contributes to the marriage of children should bear criminal responsibility and risk imprisonment. In Sweden, marriage should be based on love and feelings, not a business arrangement between parents and a future husband. Child marriage must be fought with all means at its disposal. If you come here, you should adapt to it, and if you're already married to a child, the marriage should be dissolved. Then you should be aware that child marriage is severely punished, if anyone should think of the idea of continuing to live as a married child. A severe punishment is an obvious prerequisite for reducing the number of children's marriages in Sweden. It should not be so difficult for us to agree on it, so why is this important issue constantly being postponed? Sure, we are now talking about total bans, but for me bans are something other than what the government is talking about. Prohibitions shall have consequences when the prohibition is broken. Today, people are basically never punished in Sweden for contributing to the marriage of a child. For example, a man who wanted to marry a girl was completely exonerated, even though he was well aware that the girl was far below 18 years of age. There is simply no proper legal framework for judging in Sweden.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-751	Mr. Old President! I refrain from commenting on Eskilandersson's description of the government's work. I feel very confident that we have a order in the Swedish Parliament where the drafting of laws is preceded by investigations and preparations and is not based on the opinion of the Swedish Democrats. It is extremely important that we have a starting point when deciding on changes. In Sweden there is an absolute age limit of 18 to marry. This means that we have a ban on child marriage in Sweden. What we are now proposing also means that we go even further than the announcement referred to by Mikael Eskilandersson. It was about voting for an opportunity to remove recognition if one of the parties was under the age of 18 when they came to Sweden. In the proposal we from the Government have sent to the Law Council, we go even further and say that it should be a general and total ban for those who are children when they come to Sweden. This means that it applies not only to those who were under 18 when they came here, but to the law in general. I don't know if you can really walk any further; then Mikael Eskilandersson will have to develop it. On the other hand, with regard to the link between civil law and criminal law, there are two completely different areas. I also said at the outset that there are criminal law rules, which were introduced in 2014, in this area. We have the crime of forced marriage, and we have the crime of misleading the journey of forced marriage. It is about protecting against both coercion marriage and child marriage. However, in connection with the amendments to the law in 2014, the bourgeois government considered that a special child marriage crime would not be introduced. So it is not a crime today to marry someone under 18, but it is forbidden to do so. It has turned out that few police reports on the new crimes lead to prosecution and conviction, and it is against this background that the government has previously commissioned an investigator to review the penal provisions. Are they effective? Can they be expected to be effective? Is clarification required? The mandate also includes considering whether a specific child marriage crime should be introduced. The assignment will be finalized after the summer, and then the government will take a position on how we proceed with the investigator's assessment and any proposals. However, it is extremely important for me today to make it clear that the proposal we have made to the Swedish Law Council means a general ban, civil law, against child marriage in Sweden – although it has been concluded in another country, without any connection to Sweden, before.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-756	Mr. Old President! Let's start with the announcement. The announcement is somewhat watered down, as several different parties are to support it. No one really gets through their original text and their original proposal. On the other hand, I can say that I am definitely in favour of child marriage crimes being a particular crime and not just falling under forced marriage or anything else. In the cases that have come up in Sweden it has also turned out that it is difficult to judge someone – I mentioned in the previous post that there are examples of men who have been proposed after deliberately working to marry someone who is under 18 years of age. In February 2015, several media reported a case where a 14-year-old girl was registered as a married girl by the Swedish Tax Agency. So one can say that it has been known for quite some time that the problem exists. The Swedish Tax Agency itself described this as a mistake in dealing with the fact that children under the age of 15 are not normally registered as married. Even then Morgan Johansson promised cure and improvement and that this would lead to some kind of action. At the same time as that registration was made, other persons were also registered as married. One such girl was Aisha. She had recently turned 15 when she came to Sweden in 2015, and she was registered as married and placed with her husband. What has the government done for Aisha and her situation in the years they have been in power? In 2015, nothing was done, except that the Swedish Democrats' proposal for measures was voted down here in the Riksdag. In 2016 nothing happened either. In 2017, the Alliance had joined some of the measures proposed by the Swedish Democrats, and in order to avoid defeat in the Chamber, an investigation was set up by Morgan Johansson. In August 2018, the investigation is expected to come up with its proposal, which can be carried out a few years later. 2018 is also the year when Aisha turns 18. This law won't come about until she's turned like 20. Now, five in twelve – or perhaps five over twelve, at least from Aishas's point of view – the government is going out with what it calls a total ban on child marriage. Today, the Minister may choose to tone down this total ban somewhat and talk more about a ban. Either way, it is a ban that is completely without punishment, and then we can wonder if it is really right to call it a ban. The Alliance also referred to it as a ban on child marriage when the law was amended at the last election. Then the possibility of exemption was removed. This government speaks of bans when it is actually thought that authorities should stop registering and treating children as married. After the next election, we may finally be able to get a real child marriage offence and get a real ban with criminal consequences if someone breaks it, so that child marriage actually becomes illegal. There is also a problem within Sweden. Today, children can marry within Sweden and wait to register it with the tax authorities.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-766	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Mikael Eskilandersson for the question. I am sorry to disappoint Mikael Eskilandersson somewhat, but the government's action on the issue of child marriage is not motivated by the work of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. It has a different starting point. The government is on the girls' and women's side; the Swedish Democrats are not very well known for that. The government has for a long time been working on the issues on the basis that we are also keen to live up to the international documents of which we are an essential part. I am thinking of the UN's objective in Agenda 2030 to abolish child marriage as a phenomenon. The bill that the government has now presented and sent to the Swedish Law Council is a very clear signal that Sweden stands up for the principle that children should not be married. No children should be registered as married in Sweden, and that is why we propose a total ban on recognising a child's marriage in Sweden. I am very grateful that today I have been able to present the government's opinion on this issue.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-771	Mr. Old President! For me, this is not a total ban. For me, a ban is also linked to a penalty or at least to a powerful consequence for anyone who violates the rule – otherwise it is almost to describe as a guideline that one should not be married to a child in Sweden. For me, it is obvious that we need a child marriage law that prohibits child marriage within Sweden, which provides a severe penalty and in this way can reduce the number of child marriages in Sweden. I really don't understand why it should be so difficult to ban child marriage in real life.
i-892823c3b1c4e577-773	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank you for the question and for the debate. This leads me to repeat very briefly what I said in my previous reply to the question that Mr Eskilandersson has now put in his final line that we do not link this to punishment. As I said, we have set up an investigation on this mission. I know that the Member of Parliament is well aware that Parliament is the legislator. After the summer, when the Government has received the investigation and returns with a possible proposal, the Riksdag will have the opportunity to take a position on the part concerning any proposals regarding the punishment of child marriage. What we have left now is a legislative proposal in civil law where we see a total ban on registering child marriage in Sweden. We hope that we will have the support of Parliament for this. Thank you for the debate.
