i-9zd6Frp9XviH8NJ5ZL6uSn	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. For the Swedish Democrats, free and democratic elections are a very important issue. Of course, we agree that it is wrong that voting rules differ between the elections to the Sami Parliament and the other four parliamentary elections. Of course, uniformity should prevail. But what the government is proposing is the wrong way to go. We should not lower the demands of the Sami elections to the same level as the other four parliamentary elections. Instead, we will raise the requirements of the others. Our democratic elections are the most important and finest foundation of our democracy. A fair and fair approach is an absolute prerequisite for citizens' confidence in society. We will remember the 2018 elections as an election with a lot of problems – problems that, in the long term, could upset confidence in our democracy. In addition to threats and violence at election cottages, family voting, mishandling of premature votes and serious problems with the ballot papers, there were in many cases that those who were going to vote were already cracked off on the electoral roll. To vote several times at the expense of others is easier than many people think. If you know that for some reason a person will not vote or will vote prematurely, on election day you can go to the polling station and easily pretend to be this person. The only thing required is that you have this person's data and, for example, another person, anyone, who certifies that you are who you claim to be. If the rightful voter does not visit the polling station on election day himself, he or she will never find out that someone has stolen his or her vote. The rightful voter's early vote will be null and void in favour of the false vote taken on the election day. Neither the premature voter nor the non-voting voter will be drawn to the attention of the change in their vote or the vote. At a time when we see an increasing tendency to vote on the basis of one's group membership, such as clan voting, there will be an obvious risk of pressure and of selling votes. We must be aware of this change in society and the risk involved. It is of the utmost importance that each individual be allowed to cast his or her vote in isolation without any unauthorised person having any insight or control over his or her voting. Neither when you take the university test, when you drive up for a driving licence or when you order a new passport, this permissiveness would be accepted. Strict licence requirements are almost always made in banking matters, prescriptions at pharmacies or alcohol purchases at Systembolaget if the clerk is the least doubtful. Why should our democratic elections be without these demands? Is our democracy really worth no more than that? Again: that the rules for identification today are different for the elections to parliament, county councils and municipalities compared to those for the elections to the Sameting are wrong. We fully agree with that. However, to lower the legal certainty of the Sameting to the level of the other parliamentary assemblies is to reduce the legal certainty of another election. Instead, we Swedish democrats will work to ensure that the other four parliamentary elections meet the same demands for identification as the elections to the Sameting. Your identity shall be supported by identification if you are not recognised by the recipient of the vote. In addition to this, we Swedish democrats want to introduce a common ballot for all parties represented in Parliament, as well as those parties that have achieved 1% of the votes in the last elections, with the possibility of choosing another ballot for a party outside it, of course. We Swedish democrats want to strengthen confidence in our democratic system at all levels and will continue to make further suggestions on how to do this.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-11	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation. In 1977, Sweden recognized the Sami as an indigenous people. Under international law, indigenous peoples have special rights in addition to those resulting from the status of a national minority. It is about the right to self-determination and the right to the land they traditionally inhabit. The Sami live in Sweden and neighbouring countries in the land called Sápmi. Long before national borders were established, Sápmi was inhabited by Sami. The Swedish state's treatment of Sami and Sami issues is unfortunately a dark history that includes forced labour, forced displacements and the aggravation of the majority society for Sami people to use land and nature. Although the rights of the Sami people have been strengthened in recent decades, international bodies such as the UN and the Council of Europe repeatedly point out the shortcomings that Sweden has in relation to the rights of the Sami people as indigenous peoples and how this ongoing discrimination affects the situation of the Sami people. In a survey carried out by Vaartoe – Centre for Sami Research at Umeå University, two out of three Sami states that they have been exposed to racism based on the fact that they are Sami. These are unacceptable figures. The 2007 UN Declaration of Indigenous Peoples states a minimum level of how indigenous issues should be addressed in the various countries. The emphasis of the declaration is on the right to self-determination. Sweden supports the indigenous declaration but, despite the fact that it has been ten years since it was adopted, has not yet succeeded in implementing the declaration. It's embarrassing. Madam President, I would like Therefore, pending the implementation of the indigenous declaration by Sweden, I and the Left Party believe that the measures and changes affecting the Sami people should, as far as possible, be decided by the Sami organisations themselves. The committee's report KU9 deals with the proposals put forward by the government in the bill Changes to the regulation of the Sami Parliament and the elections for the Sami elections. It is therefore a proposal for changes in the Sami organization that the government is proposing, and these are mainly behind the Left Party. On the other hand, the Left Party does not share the views of the government and the committee regarding the appointment of the Chairman of the Sameting. The appointment of the Chairman of the Association is an important matter in principle, and the President plays a central role in the Sameting plenary session. Today it is the government that appoints the Chairman of the Association. The Swedish Financial Control Agency's report Analysis of Sametinget, ESV 2017:6, proposes that the Government no longer appoints the Chairman of the Sameting. A number of consultative bodies, including the Sameting, agree with this. However, the Government has chosen not to present any proposal that the Government should no longer appoint the Chairman of the Sameting. It is strange in view of what the government in the bill itself states: a Sami right to self-government on internal issues, however, strongly suggests that it should not be the government that appoints the chairman, but that this should come from the Sameting... It should therefore be the future direction that the Sameting should appoint the chairman. However, the issue needs further consideration. The government intends to return to the issue in the appropriate context. ..................................................... While these statements by the government on the future direction are legitimate, we see no reason to delay such a decision. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-20	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. This case mainly concerns three proposals for changes in the regulation of the Sami Parliament and the elections. It's about Sametinget's organization. It concerns the publicity of the meetings of the Association, the security issues and the procedural powers of the President. And it's also about the eligibility for the Sameting. The society is both a elected parliament and a special authority with the task of monitoring issues related to Sami culture in Sweden. It has its seat in Kiruna. So the society has two different roles. This sometimes creates problems, as has been pointed out both by the Sameting and in previous investigations. One such thing is the unclear division of responsibilities between the head of the office and the board of directors – it is therefore a question of the distinction between the political and the administrative part. The proposal we are now presenting on the part of the committee means that the Board will be responsible for the activities of the Sami Parliament and the head of the office for the day-to-day operation, in accordance with the directives and guidelines decided by the Board of Directors. This will provide better conditions for the Sameting to operate, both for the political and for the government. Madam President, I would like Plenum, that is, the elected political assembly, continues to be the highest decision-making body in the society. Today it is made up of 31 elected politicians and needs better conditions to act as just elected parliament; this has also been pointed out on a number of occasions. Part of this is about being able to receive reasonable financial compensation for their mission. It is now proposed that the House be able to take a decision on this. As has been described here before, the order is such that the Sami Parliament proposes a chairman, who is then appointed by the government. It may seem a strange order that a elected assembly may not decide for itself on its chairman. But it has to do with the two different roles of the Sameting, as I mentioned earlier. The Swedish Financial Control Agency has also pointed this out and believes that another system is actually possible. There is therefore work going on to review this in the Government Office, which is gratifying. Security checks at meetings and procedural powers for the chairman may seem to be detailed issues, but it is simply a matter of being able to apply the same principle as for municipalities and county councils. It is also proposed that the Association Act should have the same order as that laid down in the Elections Act as regards the verification of identity when voting. Madam President, I would like There is still much to be done to improve the conditions for the activities of the Association and its ability to conduct politics, but these are a few steps along the way.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-27	Madam President, I would like The society on the Swedish side is 25 years old. This year it is also 100 years since the meeting of the Sami country was held in Staare, i.e. in Östersund. Time is required because it is in the course of time that everyone's life is lived. Policy therefore has a responsibility to urgently undertake reforms that will improve people's situation here and now. I am therefore pleased that a broadly unanimous Constitutional Committee has approved the Government's proposal for changes to the Sami law, among other things. I will come back to the proposals shortly, but first a brief historical observation. During the social debate in recent years, Sweden has often been called a humanitarian power. For many, this is certainly a correct description of Sweden's contemporary actions. But for others it doesn't ring as well. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a dark history when it comes to how we treated Sami. Marginalisation, oppression and abuse characterize Swedish history when it comes to Sami. There is a need to settle this part of our history, both as a way of spreading and creating increased knowledge throughout Sweden about this and as a way of laying a foundation for reconciliation. Therefore, the Moderates are in favour of, for example, a Truth Commission. Madam President, I would like Sami history cannot be commented on without a particular name sticking out: Elsa Laula. In 1917 she attended the first Sami national meeting in Trondheim. Elsa Laula's life's work was to fight for Sami rights and to gather and organize the Sami. But Elsa Laula wasn't just Sami. She was also a woman and feminist champion. In the invitation to the national meeting in 1917, one could read that a woman not only should be missing in our association, for we believe that when Sami women join together to do something for the people, they will soon find the means needed to reach the goal. You don't have to be a woman, a feminist or a Sami person to be inspired by Elsa Laula's tremendous courage and tireless driving force this 100 years later. Madam President, I would like I do not think that Elsa Laula would have been satisfied with the situation of the Sami people today. But, hopefully, she would have thought that what we should decide on today are small steps in the right direction. In the Government's proposal for a decision, the requirement for Swedish citizenship to be eligible for the Sameting is removed. In addition, the electoral law is harmonised with the Sami law so that it is not only possible to vote when you have legitimised yourself, but you can also prove your identity by other means than by means of identification. It is good that the rules for voting in elections are the same in the electoral law and in the Sami law. The Association shall also be entitled to decide on reasonable financial benefits for members and replacements. It is also decided that the meetings of the Sami Parliament should be open to the public and that the Chairman should be entitled to exhibit those who are disturbing. However, no proposal has yet been put forward to change the order as regards the appointment of the Chairman of the Association. The committee notes, however, that the question of appointing the Chairman of the Association will be the subject of further consideration. Madam President, I would like Elsa Laula said at the meeting in Trondheim: And it is now once and for all that small nations like ours often stand back for other great nations. We ourselves owe most of the blame for the fact that our nation has not gone further than it has. We haven't stood together. We've never tried to act like a people. Today we are trying for the first time to connect the Norwegian and Swedish Sami. ..................................................... Elsa Laula's vision is far from being achieved. However, I believe that today we are taking small steps forward in the right direction. I support the committee's proposal.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-38	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating, perhaps, minor changes in the regulation of the Sameting and small changes in the elections to the same. But this debate is actually more important than its small parts. Together, they form a whole that the previous speaker, Louise, so well spoke of. This needs to be constantly debated and the fronts constantly need to be moved forward. It needs to be kept alive and to be consistent with our time's demands for firm democratic frameworks, impartiality in the construction and integrity of the policies to be followed by the elections and the institutions. These are two different things in different scales, but they are both equally important. The Sami people have no nation. They live beyond what we call national boundaries, in another nation. The Sami people also live in the nation. The Sami people have over time been persecuted, severely vulnerable and devalued both as individuals and as a group. The report harmonises the electoral law for the Sameting and harmonises decision-making. They are harmonised with the parliamentary elections, which we all live in. That's very good. Both these democratic structures must have the same external structure and have the same strong, sustainable rules and structures that work in everyday life. I therefore support the committee's proposal as a whole. Today is also an excellent opportunity to discuss and reflect on these two parallel structures. Sweden has always been a country with ethnic diversity and many languages. Those belonging to a national minority have the right to their language, the right to be involved in their culture and the right to be involved in determining the identity of their group. Prejudice against Sami, Jews, Roma and other minorities is out there. They must be fought with all the democratic means at their disposal every day. Madam President, I would like Samer, Swedish finns, tornoes, Roma and Jews have been developing their culture on Swedish soil for a very long time – perhaps much longer than most in this hall have had their family on Swedish soil and much longer than Sweden has been around. We Liberals want this to be made visible by the fact that national minorities and minority languages are both clearly mentioned and visible in our constitutions. This will also provide guarantees that major changes to minority policy will be preceded by a very careful reflection period and discussion, as our time and the world around us have really shown. There should not be a quick reversal of politics. As far as democracy is concerned, Sameting has a unique role to play. It has a role that must be based on the greatest respect, much dialogue and great consensus. In matters that concern only the Sami people or are only of marginal interest to Swedish society, the Sami people should of course be allowed to make decisions through their own elected and democratic decision-making institutions. In matters of interest to both Sami and Swedish society, we must further develop and establish the forms of cooperation between the Sami people and Swedish society. This needs to be done quite quickly. Although the Sami right of self-determination is mainly realised through the Sami's own decision-making bodies, implementation requires a close dialogue with Swedish decision-making bodies. This requires dialogue and respect from both sides. Sami representation rights in non-Sami institutions would help to improve this dialogue. I think it is time we took more steps forward on these issues. It is important that Sami views and contributions come into play early enough in the decision-making processes that concern us jointly. One of Sametinget's most central tasks is the work of implementing Sami self-government. The right of Sami self-determination must, of course, be implemented with respect for democracy, democratic values, equality and human rights. The society is a elected body with the power of such a body, but the society should not make decisions on all matters. Many issues concern both the Riksdag and the Sami Parliament, and then it must be done in concert. In this House, we are used to working on the principle of subsidiarity in EU, regional and county affairs and issues relating to local self-government. We must be better at that too when it comes to Sami self-determination issues. An important part of minority policy is the so-called administrative areas of Sami, Finnish and Meänkieli. In these areas, the individual has a greater right of access to preschool, care for the elderly and services in his or her minority language and to use his or her own language in contact with municipalities, county councils or authorities. Liberals have made sure that the administrative areas today cover a much larger part of Sweden. We want them to continue to expand, so that Sweden becomes an accessible country for everyone. Minority languages are also particularly important in the care of the elderly. Here we need to move the positions forward. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report on the harmonisation of the electoral law – yes to the continuation of important democratic talks and to the content of this important policy area!
i-12529ee09ff093f8-50	Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating here today is very limited to its scope. It clarifies the responsibility between the political part and the authority part – the Board of the Sami Parliament and the Head of the Office. It also contains proposals which equate the possibility of proving their identity in the choice and the possibility of screening. The changes proposed by the Government in the proposal are justified, and I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved. At the same time, I would like to agree with those who have spoken in the speaker's chair that the Swedish state must take responsibility for history. I am delighted by Mrs Meijer' comments on the proposal for a Commission of Truth, which has also been highlighted by the Minister of Sami Affairs, Alice Bah Kuhnke. I hope that we can soon find political agreement on this and that the government can make a proposal on this. I also hope, from what I see as a hint of Bengt Eliasson, that there is support at least among some of the bourgeois parties to proceed with ratifying the ILO 169 and also to work on the consultation order, where the government has also come a very long way. I hope that in the near future we can get a majority in Parliament to take several steps forward in Sami politics and give the Sami people the rights that apply to them as indigenous peoples.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-52	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for additional cases to reservations 1 and 2. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is a good thing that the government wants to make the Swedish elections more secure – not least in the light of the many incidents and incidents that occurred during the autumn elections – but the Swedish Democrats object to the approach to achieve this. In contrast to the current regime, where ballot papers are placed in the polling station, the government proposes that the ballot papers be placed in a foreclosed position. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to this, as we believe that it will be easier to sabotage the general elections by hiding or resorting to a party's ballot papers if this can be done without public scrutiny. Even if the current system is not perfect with regard, for example, to the protection of the electoral secret or increased withdrawal of resources in the form of voters picking up ballots for other pa rtiers than those intended to vote on, we believe that the benefits of avoiding possible sabotage outweigh the potential benefits of putting ballots in a foreclosed location. Madam President, I would like While it can be argued that this provides an increased incentive for voters to check regularly that ballot papers are untouched, this risks increasing queue formation. We believe that it is also impossible to ignore the risk that a voter chooses to close his eyes to the absence of ballot papers from a particular party or group. Nor is it possible to ignore the risk that individual voters, by notifying the voters of the absence of ballot papers from a particular party or group of parties, will be forced to disclose their electoral secret. The Parliament should therefore reject the bill in the part relating to the provision of ballot papers in a foreclosed place. Much of today's electoral fraud could instead be remedied by a new electoral ballot system, where the respective ballots are not unique to each party. In addition, joint ballot papers would completely remove the problem of people feeling monitored when taking ballot papers from the ballot box table to the ballot box, as the same ballot paper would apply to all parties. This would contribute to strengthening electoral secrecy and reducing electoral fraud. On top of that, there are environmental benefits to the proposal, as a much smaller number of ballot papers would have to be printed and there would have to be far fewer miles on the roads to distribute them. The government should therefore investigate how a system of joint ballots can be introduced and come back with a proposal to the Riksdag.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-58	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations contained in the report to be rejected. Today's debate is about improving the electoral law. It is always an extremely important process. Voting is one of the finest rights we have in Sweden. It should be remembered that universal suffrage is still not a given in the world. Sweden, which has a hundred-year history of universal suffrage, is a pioneer country. Nevertheless, some people feel uncomfortable at the time of the vote because they do not feel sure that the secret of the elections can be guaranteed because the ballot papers in the polling station are not protected from transparency. Of course, the existence of mistrust is not acceptable. This may lead to a voter abstaining from using his democratic right and simply not voting. That is why the committee makes a good point with the first proposal in this proposal, in order to ensure the best possible confidentiality of the elections and at the same time to preserve the security of the electoral process itself. What is fundamental in a democratic election is that it should be free and secret to vote. Since criticism was levelled at the Swedish elections and how to guarantee the secret of the elections, this is a good way to land. Providing the ballot papers behind screens, so that others do not see which one you choose, may cause some problems, but it is important that voters find procedures to prevent possible cheating or queues. With regard to all forms of undue influence, care must always be taken to ensure that there is no doubt as to the outcome of the elections. It will be important to follow up this new system and see that it works. It is also important to find a solution now, which can take effect as early as next year, instead of waiting for the major review being prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like With regard to the second part of the dossier on simplifying the voting procedure, the committee again lands correctly. The possibility to write names on blank ballots, provided that the person in question is registered by the party, is a development that is good and is in time. This is partly because one can exercise one's right to vote for a particular person and partly because it can be implemented even if the intended ballot is missing in the room. If someone has previously written the name of one of the party's pre-announced candidates on an empty ballot, that election has been annulled, but the new proposal will lead to simplifications. The new proposal will also make it easier for those who are abroad at the time of voting or who choose to vote prematurely in a municipality other than the one in which they live. On these occasions, it may not have been possible before to vote for the candidate on whom it wishes to vote. Madam President, I would like There are, of course, other problems in the electoral process. The process must be kept alive. Work to improve the electoral system continues with the review now under consideration in the Government Office. It is always important for voters that it is safe, workable and safe to vote. That is why the kind of improvements that we are taking today will lead to an improvement in the electoral law and to a strengthening of democracy and progress.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-67	Madam President, I would like This is about strengthening the protection of electoral secrecy. It is an important discussion and debate and an important decision. We support the proposal in the report as a whole, first of all I would like to say. However, I would also like to point out the specific opinion that we would like to send with this dossier. Today's decision means that we move one problem from one place to another, we mean. And it is important that we now get a quick follow-up of how it works in reality. Madam President, I would like We have a tendency in Sweden to look at other countries' electoral systems and other countries' electoral secrets or ways and to criticize them and believe that we live in the best of worlds ourselves. That is not really the case. We also need to develop. We also need to move forward in our democratic process. The Swedish electoral system has shortcomings in terms of election secrecy and electoral security. Several incidents, not least at the last elections, have shown this. I would particularly like to highlight those with visual impairment who are unable to vote in person with a preserved full electoral secret. We have problems with so-called family easting, as several people stand behind the election screen and together prepare their election envelopes in each other's sight. It has turned out that it is a phenomenon that tends to spread, even though it is not formally allowed. The legislative dossier which is currently on the table, and which we are debating, introduces new rules on how ballot papers are to be provided in connection with the polling stations. The new framework means that ballot papers should be placed in a space that is foreclosed for transparency. But you can reflect and problematize around it: It is not safe to do so. The good idea is self-evident, but there is also the possibility of manipulating ballots and sabotaging for those who want to. That risk increases as a result. That is why we Liberals believe that this regulatory framework should be thoroughly evaluated after the 2019 European elections, so that we have a good insight into how it has worked. The 2014 election year was the first year in which the authorities would ensure that polling stations were accessible and that individuals with disabilities would not be discriminated against. The exemptions for municipalities to use inaccessible premises were then removed, but the democratic journey towards full accessibility must, Madam President, continue. A serious problem today is that people with visual impairment, as I mentioned at the outset, cannot vote with full electoral secrecy because they must have someone with them to help them in the electoral booth. It is not possible today to vote for a candidate without revealing the secret of the election if you cannot see the oppressed ballot. I mean, that's a problem. In 2016 the Swedish parliament announced the importance of the visually impaired being able to vote in person without revealing their electoral secret. And, in this House's view, the ambition should be for an adequate solution to be in place as soon as possible, but by 2022 at the latest, when the general elections are the next time. We naturally welcome the fact that there is broad support in this House for this. It is urgent that a government is now in place and that investigative measures in this respect are actually launched quickly. In conclusion, Madam President, we Liberals believe that a further review of the electoral procedures needs to take place. It is a question of an ever-living dialogue, a debate, a constant reflection on the issue: how can we become even more secure, more secure and even more stable in our forms, which we, together in here and out there, fill with politics? This review should include stronger measures against family voting, improved electoral secrecy for all and improved protection against manipulation and sabotage of ballot papers posted in polling stations.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-78	Madam President, I would like In fact, I did not intend to take the floor on this matter, but at the last meeting of the Elections Board and when we went through appeals against the last election, the need for changes was very clearly illustrated. A lot of people had just focused on the part about queuing the booth with ballot papers and thus being prevented from taking ballots anonymously. One might wonder why this problem may get bigger and bigger. It has to do with the fact that the old practice of standing outside the polling stations and distributing ballots is becoming more and more rare. There are many of us who used to be polite to everyone. Although most may have known which party I voted for, I always took ballot papers from everyone who distributed, and many did so. In a system of receiving ballots from everyone and then entering, the electoral secret is there. A lot of older people have ballot papers from home and are well equipped for the elections, and then there is no problem with the ballot papers. However, these practices are applied less and less. Instead, they want to put ballot papers in place, and in that situation this becomes a major problem. Of course, it is not satisfactory for people to be able to see which ballots they are taking. Although, of course, there too, it is possible to remove everyone, this is a phenomenon that needs to be addressed, and that is something that is good in this proposal. I share the view that we must, of course, review how this has worked and find ways of making it work properly. However, I would like to emphasise that the electoral system is not suitable for experimentation. I am not exactly conservative ideological, but as far as the electoral system is concerned, I am highly conservative. I think that reforms can be made. For example, in this election we had a requirement that everyone who worked in the polling station should be educated, and we have taken the step of having party symbols on the ballot papers. But when it comes to busy proposals to be able to sit at home and drink beer and vote digitally with friends or, as in some countries, have long ballots where you tick, I think you should be careful with such experiments. In fact, there is some security in this inertial movement and that people recognize themselves when they come to the polling station every four years. Changes shall be made where obvious errors or improvement possibilities exist. But I think we should take care of an electoral system that essentially serves us well.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-84	Madam President, I would like I wish I could ask for a line at Hans Ekström. It has become a little bit of a tradition that Hans and I have a debate on the subject of joint ballots each year. Now I can take it in the form of a speech instead. Hans Ekström often mentions this with some good suggestions. What the Swedish Democrats want to do is to investigate a system of joint ballots. For me, this is not a busy proposal. It is not tantamount to what Hans Ekström lists: to sit at home in the Chamber and drink a few beers on a Friday night and go in and vote with the bank ID. That is quite another thing, and one such proposal has never been brought up by the Swedish Democrats. In addition to that, Hans Ekström may request a reply to me in order to present here and now what objections he actually looks forward to investigating a system of joint ballots.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-87	Madam President, I would like Should we have a child marriage in Sweden? When you ask the representatives of the parties in the polling stations, all parties obviously answer no to that question. This is definitely not a new issue. It is also not the first time that I have been standing here debating child marriages. This is not the second time, nor is it the third. I think I have been in the speaker's room seven or eight times in interpellation debates, in ordinary family law debates and in debates of various kinds just the last parliamentary term and talked about children's marriages. Well, then I've only been in one term of office before. After four years, the feminist government has been sitting for four years without succeeding in banning child marriage. The previous alliance governments failed in their eight years. Sure, they managed to ban Swedish children from being married – as if it were among the Swedish children and the indigenous population that the problem existed. In 2009, the Youth Board report pointed out that the problem of child marriage was indeed a widespread problem among our young people. Many young people felt that they could not freely choose partners. Yet we stood in Parliament in the hands of hands. Göran Persson's government already presented a proposal to prevent child marriage. Everyone always agrees that children should not be married, especially in the election campaign. Yet, no government has really put its foot down so far. Not Göran Persson, not Reinfeldt's governments and definitely not the government Löfven. Madam President, I would like One thing you have been both quick and good at, however, is adapting the rules in Sweden. Special rules have been introduced so that it is actually possible to be married to a child. The focus has been on it rather than on the problem, which is that children are married. This is something I asked the minister responsible in the now deposed Social Democratic Government – why the rules for child benefit in that case were adapted so that the person who has been married as a child would have the opportunity to control his child benefit himself. From the minister responsible, I was told that the problem was not that children's wives received child benefits but that the problem was that children are married. That is exactly what I would like to point out. The proposal we now have on the table certainly does not put a definitive stop to child marriage in Sweden. I'd say it's as toothless as a newborn baby. It omits all children who married before 1 January 2019 and who come here in the future. As long as it's strange. So it takes several years for it to have any effect on all children who have been exposed to child marriage but who have turned 18 before crossing the border. Of course, everyone should be treated equally; we should not distinguish between people from outside when the marriage is concluded. Worse still, it is with all the children in Sweden who in practice are left to their fate. It is hoped that this will work out over time, as you will not allow more to enter the country as a married child, but there is no proposal here on how to find, find and dissolve the child marriages that already exist in Sweden. Then there are all the unofficial children's marriages. There are no measures here either. This is about marriages that have been concluded without being registered with the Swedish Tax Agency. Just saying that we shouldn't register children as married is toothless. To be honest, Madam President, how difficult can it be? Put your foot down, ban child marriage, put a severe punishment! Seek out and smoke out be individuals who ignore the law. Free every child and let marriage always be a voluntary union between two adults! Only then can we defend the genuine worth of every human being. Madam President, I would like With that, I would like to endorse our reservation No 1.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-96	Madam President, I would like Children's marriages are permitted in various parts of the world. In many cases there is a connection between child marriage, forced marriage, honor-related violence and oppression. Therefore, child marriage is not a national problem but a global one. This is one of the reasons why UN member states have decided that child marriage should be abolished by 2030. Usually it's a girl who marries an older man. It is not only their childhood that is taken away from them, but many times it is about the opportunity to go to school, work and develop as an independent individual. Child marriage becomes an obstacle to equality, and people's empowerment disappears. It is therefore unacceptable that it has been allowed to occur here in our own country. It is high time to ensure that those who marry as a child do not have to remain in marriage they do not want to be in. It should be the age when the marriage was concluded that forms the basis for the assessment of whether the marriage should be accepted in Sweden. Our reason for this is that when you are of age you should decide how you want to live your life. For the Center Party, it is important that there is knowledge about the possibility of leaving a relationship and, if you want, remarrying with the same person. Our reservation is that there should be an oral procedure in which the free will of both parties to be married is ensured, in order to increase equality between men and women from cultures where child and forced marriages occur. Madam President, I would like I also think it is important that authorities do not unnecessarily dwell on people's privacy and records without their consent. That is one of the reasons why we do not agree with the Swedish Democrats that we should go back in history and dissolve marriages entered into by children even if the couple have moved to Sweden maybe 30 years ago. It is a form of persecution of people from the point of view of ethnicity rather than addressing fundamental problems of equality. We also believe that this is an impossible task and demonstrate the symbolic policy of the Swedish Democrats. What is the next matter to be reviewed afterwards by the authorities? There are more important things to do than to build a bureaucracy around this. Madam President, I would like All adults should have a say in whether they want to live in a relationship with another person and whether they should be married. That is what the report proposes, and we in the Center Party welcome the amendments proposed in the bill banning the recognition of foreign child marriages. In our reservation, we propose that any decision on recognition of marriage where one or both parties were children at the time of marriage should be preceded by an oral discussion. The call will be initiated by the Swedish Tax Agency, which is the authority responsible for the population register. Our arguments for this are that you should give both man and woman the opportunity to gain knowledge and information about what applies in Sweden when a marriage is concluded, that you can live together in a common-law relationship anyway and that a Swedish marriage is required for the marriage to be valid here. In cases where there has been coercion in the marriage concluded abroad, there is a risk that it will continue even after arriving in Sweden. For us, it is important that if a new marriage, according to Swedish rules, is to be concluded, it should not take place in a routine manner. It is important for the administrator to ensure that the parties have knowledge of the voluntary nature and of the obligations and rights of a marriage – both for the woman and for the husband. This requires an oral hearing and a personal meeting, with the present interpreter if necessary. We want to ensure that equality is increased for all people living and staying in Sweden. These are the reasons for our reservation. The Center Party welcomes the government's satisfaction with the announcements from the Riksdag that children's marriages will be prohibited in the future, without exception. I therefore support the Centre Party's reservation and support the report in general.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-105	Madam President, I would like I thought right from the start that I would ask for a reply and ask what rights it is that the Center Party really wants to defend. Now some more interesting things came to light in the speech, which gave me some thought. How can you feel that it is persecution of people to dissolve a marriage that has been made by children? How can one feel that it is persecution of people to actually seek out those who have been victims of child marriage? A forced child marriage does not stop being a forced child marriage because the person turns 18– it is still the case that the individual has been abused. That abuse continues after the 18th anniversary; it is not the case that it ends then. I think it feels like the Center Party is very pleased with how it has worked so far and thinks it works today. I'd say it doesn't work at all. We cannot just stand by while people are being exploited and exposed. So I would like to have a clarification: how can one think that it is persecution of people to dissolve child marriages?
i-12529ee09ff093f8-109	Madam President, I would like What I'm saying is that I don't think it's okay to go back in the register as an authority to see how people live. For me, this is a first step. What's the next thing we're going to review in records without me as a citizen having been involved in saying that it's okay to back down in history? I am not satisfied that children are married or married, but I do not think that we can go back into legislation. Instead, I believe that what we can do today is sufficient, that is to say, approve the legislation of 1 January 2019.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-111	Madam President, I would like When I and my party have talked about going back into records and seeing which children we have in Sweden today who live in marriage, we have talked about children in Sweden who live in marriage, not those who came here as children and who are now 25 to 30 years old. Is it the Center Party's view that we should not pay attention to the children who are married in Sweden today? Should we just ignore them? Should we let them be married because we can't go back in the register and see that there was a child a few years ago? For example, we can see in the registers that there are 17-year-olds who are married in Sweden today, and I think that according to the latest figures there are also some or a few 16-year-olds who are married. Should we not pay attention to these 16-year-olds and free them from the child marriage they are part of so that they, as adults free individuals, can decide for themselves whether they want to be married or not? At least I do. However, that is not the Center Party's view, if I have understood it correctly.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-114	Madam President, I would like What I mean is that someone who moved to Sweden 30 years ago and was married as a child cannot today go back in that story. Whether it is for young or younger adults who are in Sweden, it is also about other issues that are important to take care of when it comes to gender equality, such as informing and talking about that it is not okay with coercion in a marriage or with honor-related violence. I do not see how it is practical to do all this research in this way. For me, instead, it is about us making sure that we do not approve the marriages in Sweden for those who come here now and who are married since before. We will work with gender equality issues on a different level than searching for registers.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-117	Madam President, I would like For me, it is important that Sweden does not betray the children who dream of a safe and trusting childhood and of living an independent life. In the meeting with the customs of other countries, we should not blur the human rights that we stand for. Children should never be seen as married or subject to forced marriage in Sweden. Together, we have previously tightened the law on a number of points to strengthen protection against forced marriages and child marriages. The total prohibition that exists today against child marriage applies only to persons who are related to Sweden and whether the marriage is concluded here or abroad. The prohibition does not cover marriages concluded abroad where none of the parties has a Swedish connection. Many children who were married away in their home country have therefore still been considered married when they applied for asylum in Sweden. Particular attention has been paid to how children have been put into marriage to protect them on the perilous roads on their journey to Sweden. To break this trend, the government, under pressure from the alliance parties, set up a rapid investigation. The Government has now made proposals to prevent the recognition of child marriage if one of the parties is under the age of 18, regardless of whether the parties are connected to Sweden or not. It should therefore be insignificant whether there was a connection to Sweden or not at the time of marriage, which we Christian Democrats think is good. This applies regardless of whether the persons are born and raised in Sweden or have just arrived here. The committee supports the Government's proposal for amendments to the law on certain international legal relationships concerning marriage and guardianship. The legislative changes strengthen the rules for the recognition of foreign children's marriages by introducing a new general rule that no foreign children's marriages should be recognised in Sweden, regardless of their affiliation. On the other hand, we Christian Democrats have a reservation on the question of how to deal with these requests. The question of whether a foreign marriage should be recognised or not is almost always examined by the Swedish Tax Agency in connection with civil records, as we heard in a previous speech. However, the question may also be examined by other authorities, such as the Finnish Immigration Service or the Social Welfare Boards, depending on the individual's status in the country. As a rule, an authority's assessment is not binding on how to assess the issue in other contexts. Different authorities may come to different conclusions, creating uncertainty and uncertainty for the individual as to what applies to his or her marriage. From the point of view of legal certainty, it would therefore be preferable for only one authority to take these decisions and for the decision to be valid all the way. Bringing together all the cases concerning the recognition of foreign marriages with one and the same authority could also better ensure the uniform application of the acquis in this area. We Christian Democrats, together with the Liberals, believe that we should do this for the sake of legal certainty. We therefore believe that the government should review the possibility of transferring all cases relating to the recognition of foreign marriages to a designated authority. What authority this should be may be unsaid, but we think it would be good. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-126	Madam President, I would like I think that is an interesting idea with its own authority. However, I am not prepared to agree with that in any case. It is usually the government that sets the framework for how it should work, and this should be up to a government. So far, we have not been able to agree on the government issue. However, I shall not accuse the Christian Democrats of that in any way, but it is rather their alliance friends who have so far put a stop to forming a government. The fundamental question is whether we should build up authorities to further adapt our system for child marriage. I'm not sure I'm very comfortable with that. Why don't you just put your foot down and say no? If you have a child's marriage and we know if it should be reversed. Then you get married again if you think it was wrong to end the child marriage. Why can't we just go that way?
i-12529ee09ff093f8-129	Madam President, I would like In fact, this system does not include a total ban, but there is a small opening in order to be tested in one way or another as to whether or not to maintain the marriage. In that case, someone must take the decision on the basis of whether it is appropriate and whether it is compatible with Swedish law. I think it would be better for it to be managed by an authority than by several different types of authorities. I think it is important that we try to ensure the rule of law, regardless of which government we have or which government we get. I think that the Swedish democrats may think that the idea – that it is an authority instead of several who are in charge of these things – is actually quite good. I think that the Swedish Democrats can support this absolutely regardless of whether we have a government today or not.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-131	Madam President, I would like I could probably agree that we should have an authority to deal with this, but I will not do it today. I think that is something that could be discussed. I think it should be the Tax Authority – or the Tax Agency, when they are going to include this in their register – which is the authority that is testing it. Then we have only one authority. There should be very few cases that can be recognised at all, because it takes extraordinary reasons, which is the hardest wording. You can make exceptions, but there's a lot more to it. It should be about people coming here in their 40's and having children, that there is absolutely no reason and that both say that they want to continue to be married. Overall, I think that we should not put so much effort and effort into trying to build a system for adapting to child marriage. Creating new authorities and new systems to adapt us is not the way I want to go.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-134	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson and I have the same point of view, because I do not think that there are very many issues that this will be about. Then I think it is even more important to gather the assessment in one place, so that several different authorities should not handle a few cases. So we usually handle other parts, that is, we make sure that there is competence in one place, that the processing is effective and legally secure. That's why it should be an authority. We are not saying that it needs to be a new authority. We can imagine an authority that exists today taking over responsibility for the whole. As mentioned, the Swedish Tax Agency is the authority that makes most of these decisions, and I can imagine that the handling will be on it. But the important thing is that the experience and knowledge of how to handle such matters should be in one place and not in several places.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-136	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3, which was referred to by the Christian Democrat Larry Söder and which is why I do not need to develop. For time to come, we Liberals are not in favour of our other motions, but we are in full support of them as well. Little girls shouldn't be married to old men. Little girls shouldn't be married to old men. Little girls shouldn't be married to old men. That sounds obvious. Children should not be married to adults. Yet Swedish law still allows child marriage for children who have come here as already married. In the report Are you married? from the Finnish Immigration Service, which came early spring 2016, actually winter, at least 132 cases of child marriage were found among those who came to Sweden as refugees only in autumn 2015. The Migration Board also said that there was probably a large number of darkness there. 132 children, almost only girls, were forced into marriage with older men because of honorary standards in their home countries, which was approved by Swedish law and also complied with by Swedish authorities. It is a disgrace to Sweden that we have such a double moral Swedish law that allows children who have come to Sweden to be married but not children born here. No child should be allowed to be married. I want to tell the House about one of these girls whose marriage to an old man was approved by Swedish law and complied with by Swedish authorities. She did not receive the help that the Swedish Parliament should have given her in time. Her name was Marzieh Amiri.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-143	In her application for asylum, it is clear that Marzieh came to Sweden as an unaccompanied married child. That's how it was written in the Migration Board's documents: It also said:reply she was married to a grown man(38 years). Here every little bell should have ringed in the head of all the people who work at the Migration Agency, that this is not how you can have it and that this should be investigated. But they didn't; they didn't do anything about it. You just registered it. Marzieh never stated, however, that the man was in Sweden. She was afraid it would have a negative impact on her asylum application. She did not think that Sweden would be on her side. And she was probably right, because Sweden was not on her side. We allowed her marriage to an older man. The Finnish Immigration Service registered it but did nothing about it. In March 2016, after Marzieh had been in Sweden for about six months, she disappeared from the HVB home where she lived. At the end of April, the Finnish Immigration Service wrote that they found that the girl has no intention of completing their application for asylum in Sweden. In addition, it was written that it can be assumed that Marzieh Amiri has left Sweden. This is what the Migration Board's document says, that it can be adopted. You haven't done anything, you haven't been looking for her, and you assume she's got a problem with something. The girl's asylum application was closed on 18 April 2016, only one month later. Barely anything was done to find her, really nothing. There was no missing people hunt and no big news articles like when other children and young people disappear. She was a young abducted refugee girl. Who cares? She wasn't worth helping. This is about how you can interpret the actions of the Migration Agency and the authorities in Sweden. On May 30 the same year Marzieh was found dead, partly buried in a forest section in Hökarängen in southern Stockholm. Suspected of murder: the old man who was married to the child. Since the authorities were not even looking for her – no one cared – the 38-year-old girl's husband escaped from Sweden to Iran. Fortunately, he is now, two years later, brought back to Sweden and charged with the murder. But it will not help Marzieh or the other married girls who came only in autumn 2015 that we are now three years later in the Swedish Parliament and will legislate on this. They'd need help right away. They would have needed the help of the authorities and the Swedish parliament. Madam President, I would like Liberals have been leading the fight for a total ban on child marriage for many years. The Member of the Swedish Democrats stood here and spoke about the 2009 report from the National Board of Youth, but he forgot to mention that it was the Liberals' Nyamko Sabuni who ordered the report after a lot of struggle. Since these cases were highlighted in 2015, we have pushed the government hard. We have threatened to write teams here in the Swedish parliament, when the Social Democrats and the Green Party took over a year from Morgan Johansson's promise to set up an investigation and did nothing. We took a public fight with the Social Democrats and the Green Party when they wavered to impose a total ban because the investigator did not propose a total ban. We took the fight publicly with the Social Democrats and the Green Party also last spring, when they decided to vote against the Alliance's motion for a total ban on child marriage. Every second sosse minister attacked me and other liberals on social media when they realized that they were losing the public fight, and they lost the public fight. It is thanks to those who stood up for the children and took the fight that we stand here today with a total ban on child marriage. Madam President, I would like Since the Social Democrats and the Green Party became aware of the problems, it has taken them three years for them to come to Parliament with a bill on a total ban on child marriage. Now almost all of these girls have become of age. Double standards are complete, because once they are of age, marriages are approved. It is therefore 2018 okay for girls with foreign background to be married to old men, but it is not okay for girls with Swedish background to be married to old men. It is not sustainable if a society is to stay together. From us liberals the message is clear: Swedish protection for children's rights should apply to all children who exist in Sweden. We should not accept child marriage, either for children who have a Swedish background or for children who have a foreign background. In addition, we must take the fight against honour-related oppression and choose the side of the victims. We must protect the vulnerable, like Marzieh, because child marriage is part of honor-related violence and oppression. Madam President, I would like I believe that the reason why it has taken three years for the Green Party and the Social Democrats to come to the Swedish Parliament and propose this law is ignorance. These girls were married away in their homelands as part of honor-related oppression. Not many members of the Swedish Parliament understand what it's like to live with honor-related oppression. I've experienced it myself. I have experienced it among my childhood friends in the area in which I grew up, and I have experienced it in the schools where I have attended. And I still face it today when I'm out meeting vulnerable youths. Their reality and my reality as a child were not taken seriously then and are not taken seriously now. Had more Members of Parliament understood the problem of honor-related oppression, we would not have stood here today in 2018 in a debate on a total ban on child marriage. We'd already had it. I would like to recommend to all of you Members who for years have turned a blind eye to the violence of honour, who did not want to legislate on a total ban or who have not worked on the issue quickly enough or much to read my book Potatiskullen which came out this autumn. It's actually written by myself. In the book I tell about a girl named Noor. Noor is not real, but she still exists in all the girls I grew up with who were victims of honour violence. The book is about a young girl who is forced every day of her life to adapt to the expectations of her family. She was forced to wear a dress that the family could accept. She could not take part in swimming or sex education. She wasn't allowed to date or marry anyone she wanted. And she didn't get the protection of the community when she was abducted. I can recommend all of you Members to read this book if you want to understand why we need to get more legislative changes to protect Swedish girls and boys who are subjected to honour-related oppression. Madam President, I would like In Liberal Sweden, even the background should not be able to determine your future. Sweden has developed into one of the world's most equal countries. It gives people freedom, and it increases our prosperity. Gender equality should be self-evident for all girls and women, both for those born here and for those who have moved here. We have for decades betrayed the girls and women who have come to Sweden by accepting honour violence and pacification, and now we need to take seriously a strong stance against honour violence and patriarchal structures. We are not going to allow polygamy or forced marriage, and we are going to have a lex Fadime, a penalty rule if you commit crimes with honorary motives. If you commit violent crimes during the asylum period, you must always be tried against an expulsion. For us liberals, this also means a total ban on child marriage. Because little girls aren't supposed to be married to old men.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-160	Madam President, I would like I could, in principle, agree with everything that Robert Hannah said, but double standards are the word I get stuck in his speech. To me, double standards when you stand in the speaker's chair and by articulating clearly and emphasising words make it sound like you are really against child marriage and want to go further than anyone else – although you have left a reservation where you want to make exceptions to the law and loosen the law. For me, it's gonna be really weird. I would have preferred you to have left a reservation where you want to go further, but that is not what the Liberals are doing, but vice versa. According to the reservation, you do not want to go so far as to cancel all child marriages, because if you are 21 you should know for yourself how it works to end a child marriage in Sweden. As a new person in Sweden, you should understand for yourself that what you have been subjected to is wrong. One should also understand how the Swedish authorities work, and one should be able to turn to the Swedish authorities and request a divorce. It's not a bit the Liberals are demanding of the poor people who just happened to be 21 years old. But if you're 20, something else applies. I do not quite understand this and would like clarification. However, I believe that the word for the day is double standards.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-166	Madam President, I would like One thing you should stay away from, Mikael Eskilandersson. You're not gonna come here and tell me about honor-related violence and oppression. I feel it right on top of my own skin. I know what it means, I've grown up with it and I hate it more than anything in the world. That is the whole reason why I am in the Swedish Parliament. So you can't come here and tell me how it is or use words as double standards. My whole political act is on this issue. In the world of Swedish Democrats, 16-year-old Afghans are adults and should be treated as adults. However, 21-year-olds should not be treated as adults even though they have legal capacity, even though they can protect themselves and even though they have rights as adults. Liberals are putting forward their bill because it is the best thing. This means, in the end, that a marriage entered into when you are underage can be cancelled and that you have the support of society. Together with the Christian Democrats, we also propose the creation of an authority to help these young people. However, they are adults and must be able to make an adult decision themselves, with the help of Swedish authorities. You do not want such an authority. And then I don't understand your rhetoric. You want them to get help, but you don't want any authority to help them. It gets weird when you argue that way.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-170	Let me remind you that we are not dubbing each other in the speaker's seat, but speaking through the President and using first and last names.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-171	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Robert Hannah has just entered the Chamber and therefore missed the change of line I had with the representative of the Christian Democrats. I was quite clear at the time that I could well imagine the appointment of a responsible authority from those we already have, as there are few cases. It's not crucial in any way. However, I am against building and adapting our Swedish system to suit children's marriages at all. As for the claim that we would treat 16-year-olds as adults, it is exactly the opposite. It is the Liberals who do not want to seek out 16- and 17-year-olds who are married in Sweden, which we want according to our reservation. We have made it clear that this law misses out on seeking out these young people who are already married. Moreover, according to the reports we have seen, there are those who are significantly younger. Liberals have the ability to always say one thing and then do another. It's a recurring pattern. It doesn't matter whether it's about the choice of prime minister or child marriage; it's exactly the same idea. Robert Hannah often refers to Nyamko Sabuni. I think Robert Hannah should listen to what Nyamko Sabuni says, all the way. She recently wrote a debate article about talking to SD. I think Robert Hannah should take that to heart.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-175	Madam President, I would like It's hard to say anything to Mikael Eskilandersson, because it's quite a lot of stuff. He wants authorities, but he does not want to be behind the authority to help these young people. It's kind of weird to argue that way. With your politics, the Marzieh girl had not even been allowed to come to Sweden. You do not want any policy to protect children in child marriage. You said yourself in the speaker's chair that you should not build a system, Mikael Eskilandersson. Liberal systems are there to protect these young people and help them away from child marriage, but you say no to that. I don't understand why you think it's so strange to have this authority, because without it they don't get the help you're asking for, and I heard your previous line shift. If you, Mikael Eskilandersson, listen to what Nyamko Sabuni actually says, and I know her personally, it will become clear to you that there is no party that she dislikes as strongly as the Swedish Democrats – and I share that view.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-180	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to say that I have a little problem with an eye, so if tears run out of it, it is not certain that they are of an emotional nature. On the other hand, given Robert Hannahs's story about Marzieh, it would be no wonder that many more young girls and even boys have suffered worldwide. When a child is married away, it loses its childhood, and in the long run, it also often loses the opportunity to choose its own life. How many child marriages exist in the world is impossible to know. However, statistics show that more than 700 million women worldwide live in marriages that they have entered into as children, and more than 250 million of them were younger than 15 when they married. In the poorest countries, according to UNICEF, more than 40% of girls are married. It also affects boys but not at all to the same extent. In Sweden, the possibility of marriage disappeared before the age of 18 in 2014. Prior to that, various derogations could be granted. When people who have fled end up in Sweden the number of children's marriages increases here, and a report the other year identified more than 100 children, as Robert Hannah also talked about. In the debate, I feel that we are very much in agreement on the subject. We may not agree on the history of political management, but it is a meta-discuss which may not be the most important. Sweden should not recognise marriages from other countries if a person was under 18 years of age when the marriage was concluded. That person should simply be regarded as unmarried in our country, even regardless of its age in the recognition trial. If I have understood correctly, this means that, when we have voted this afternoon, we will have the world's strongest legislation in this area. With the latest correction of the legislation in 2014, the majority of parties agreed to follow developments in this area to see if it was sufficient. However, there was still a gap, and that is what we are now closing, after the government set up an investigation last year when it became clear that the correction was not enough. It is therefore about people who are not connected to Sweden and who come here and are already married, as Larry Söder described earlier in the debate. The government states in its reasons that the interest in protecting children from entering and living in marriage outweighs, for example, cultural or religious considerations. The demands of the environment for marriage should not be a reason for anyone, regardless of their background, to marry. It is simply in the best interests of the child to extend the ban on recognising foreign child marriages to include everyone in Sweden, regardless of origin. I think this is well summed up. The government prioritises these issues and takes seriously the problems of child marriage, forced marriages and related issues of honor-related violence and oppression. The government is also actively working in this area and has taken several initiatives to counter the problem. The government has decided on a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. These include problems related to honour-related violence and repression. In February 2017, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out an in-depth analysis of the social services' handling of matters concerning children who come to Sweden and who are said to be married and to develop and disseminate a guide to social services. They also have an information assignment about what applies in Sweden in matters of marriage. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland has been commissioned by the Government to combat honour-related violence and oppression, including child marriage. As part of strengthening children's rights, the Government decided in March 2018 on a bill with proposals that will give the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child the status of Swedish law, which we MPs voted for and will apply from 2020. The Finnish Immigration Service has produced a routine description for the handling of asylum matters that deal with this issue. The aim of the standard is to ensure children's rights in the asylum process and to create the conditions for identifying children in need of support and assistance. The investigation that worked on this also looks further at other things that will be relevant for us politicians to discuss in the future but which have not exactly to do with this matter. These include the application of the penal provisions on forced marriage and misleading forced marriage, the functioning of the interaction between the authorities concerned and looking at improvements there, the possibility of introducing more effective tools to prevent and prevent persons being forced to marry abroad and measures to force or facilitate the return of the vulnerable person to Sweden. As I said, we will come back to this in future political work. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we will have this decision in place and then can continue to work on in different ways so that all young people will have the right to control their own childhood. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-195	Madam President, I would like The question of how long it took the government to come here, that is, three years, is not a meta-discuss, as the honourable Member said in the speaker's chair, because it really meant that the majority of 132 children are adults today and that marriages are therefore recognised under Swedish law. We have not helped these 132 children. If Marzieh had still lived today, her marriage would have been approved. Nor has it been given a clear mandate to the authorities to review this and help these girls, despite the fact that the Liberals have pushed this issue in other committees. The Swedish democrats talked about this earlier but lifted up completely the wrong committee. It is the Social Committee, but neither have the Social Democrats done enough to help these girls. You have to go back and think. The Liberals learned this under hand already in the autumn of 2015. Then came the report that confirmed it in February 2016, and Morgan Johansson promised to set up an investigation quickly. It took over a year, and the Liberals threatened with legislation in parliament before an investigation was even set up. We are here today three years later. All these girls' marriages have been approved in practice, even though we knew about it. Here in the Swedish Parliament we have betrayed these girls. I think it is worth commenting on why it took you so long to come here to Parliament, Elin Lundgren. Are you satisfied with the process you have carried out? You could have dealt with this question two years ago.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-199	Madam President, I would like If we are to discuss history and how it has been with legislation, it was an alliance government that was responsible for the legislation that was presented in 2014, when earlier corrections were made. From today's perspective, I want to make the Left Party, which was the only party that was then very clear about wanting to do what we do today. Unfortunately, it was not we, and not the Liberals, who tabled the proposal at the time. This is my answer when we discuss what history has been like and who has taken a strong step or not.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-202	Madam President, I would like You hear yourself – no answer to the question and no answer to why it has taken three years. Can't you explain to the 132 children why they didn't get help, Elin Lundgren, and why it took three years? I think you can use self-criticism when it is time to do so. As for what has happened in history, I can say that it was not the Liberals or the Christian Democrats who allowed us to continue to have a hole in the legislation. We wanted a total ban back then. But you who led a government, which had no opinion other than a total ban, did nothing. I would also like to comment on a quote. Last spring, when the Alliance implemented an announcement to the government about a total ban and you wavered on this point, your spokesperson Hillevi Larsson said this in the speaker's chair, when she argued that we should not have a total ban:.We have girls and boys in Sweden today, i.e. Swedish citizens, who are living together, who have sex with each other, who live together and who have children together. ..................................................... In this way, the spokesperson of the Social Democrats argued Hillevi Larsson on these issues in the Riksdag when you said no to total ban this spring. It was the storm in social media, of which the Liberals were a large part, that caused you to change your mind. The quote shows the ignorance of honour-related violence and oppression. Unlike cohabiting people here in Sweden who choose to live together at a young age, these girls are part of an honorary patriarchal system where they have been forced into child marriage from a young age. These girls really needed the help of Sweden and the government. But we did nothing in three years, and now their child marriage, which they have been forced into because of standards of honor and oppression, is approved. I don't think you should be happy when there's no reason to be satisfied.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-207	Madam President, I would like I may not have put it so that I am very pleased. On the contrary, I practiced a great deal of self-criticism, which I did not hear the representative of the Liberals do. I cannot take responsibility for what another Member of my party has said in a debate that I did not listen to. But if we are going to say something about spring, my picture was that there was an investigation going on about this, albeit later, as the Liberals pointed out, where the proposal that we are going to decide on today is on its way. In February, a committee initiative was taken by the Alliance, if that is what Robert Hannah meant when he talked about the motion earlier. I have interpreted it that way, but it is possible that I have interpreted wrong. For me, it's one of those things you can do in Parliament to put your eye on a question and make it seem like you're the one who drives the question, although it's already on. It's a so-called blow in the air. Then perhaps it was foolish for the Social Democrats to deal with this through a rejection, on the grounds that there was already an investigation. Then there was a media misconception – that we did not want to ban these marriages, which was absolutely not right in substance. This is a bit technical, and we political nerds understand that. But the media didn't. Now Robert Hannah will not be able to reply, but I think it is special that the party that beats its chest a lot is also the party that has a reservation about lightening the legislation that we are putting forward. I find this remarkable.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-212	Madam President, I would like I'm not allowed to take a line on lines, but I'm starting to laugh when I hear someone stand and complain that the government didn't do anything for three years. Then you have been in government before then and have done nothing for eight years. I'm not as interested in discussing what's been, but I'm actually more interested in what's coming. My question is, in fact, the same solidly forward-looking: are you satisfied with the proposal that you have put forward? Are you satisfied with this legislation?
i-12529ee09ff093f8-214	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is that when it comes to this specific question, we consider the proposal to be proportionate on the basis of the given conditions. So the answer is yes. However, as I also said in my speech, we obviously need to move on with a great many other things that came from the same investigation. But that does not specifically have to do with this issue.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-215	Madam President, I would like The reason I ask the question is, of course, that it can be questioned whether you are satisfied that children who actually exist in Sweden will continue to live as married, because you have not tried to seek out these children in any way or reverse what has already been done. I think that's a bit boring. But above all, this is forward-looking. Is it satisfied that it is possible to ignore this law? There is no penalty value whatsoever linked to the law. When you present a bill that says it is forbidden to be married to a child, there should be a penalty if someone tries to go around it. It should not be possible to just ignore one law and then nothing happens. Anyone who marries a child and chooses to live with a child in Sweden but does not register it with the Swedish Tax Agency – a so-called unofficial marriage – is not hit by this law at all. What I wanted to highlight was whether you are really satisfied with this part or whether there will be supplementary legislation in the form of a ban on child marriage and in the form of a ban on actually living with children who are married in Sweden.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-218	Madam President, I would like On this issue, I would like to say that the main concern is not to punish anyone. That is not the point of this legislation. The point is that people should live free lives when they are young – nothing else. In this context, punishment is really of completely secondary interest to me. I do not see how this brings us forward on this issue at all. The second question has nothing to do with this, but belongs to the wider discussion of how we should live together. It is somewhat more complicated than the fact that it can be answered in a line shift. What are marriagelike forms? Who lives in this way? You can problematize in many different ways. I know that the agenda of the Swedish Democrats is often to point out people who come from other countries and from other cultures and say that their way of life would be something more unhealthy than our way of life, that is, with us who were born here. But if you talk about living under marital conditions unregistered with someone under the age of 18, I am absolutely convinced that a lot of people born in Sweden do. No one particularly points to this, but feels that young people too can live under different conditions. So I do not think this is a matter for this debate. It is much larger and much more complex than Mikael Eskilandersson wants it to be. We will have to come back to that issue together with the other things I mentioned earlier.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-221	Madam President, I would like In fact, I would like to start by thanking Robert Hannah for the fire speech he gave against the oppression of honour. The conclusion he reached on the need for more measures I fully share. Nevertheless, there is reason to say that there is finally a need for us to do so today. At last, we are tightening up the legislation against child marriage further. Finally, children who come to Sweden can receive the same protection as children who were born here. Children should have the right to their own freedom and life. It shall apply to all children without exception. There should be no doubt that child marriage should be prohibited in Sweden. 47 000 girls are married away in the world every day. 12 million girls are married every year. There is an estimate that shows that there are some 650 million women in the world today who were married as children. Sweden needs to be a role model for the rest of the world and also drive this issue internationally. I was very pleased to hear that a South African delegation is coming here and would like to meet members of the Civil Committee, including to discuss our decision to ban child marriage. I hope that this delegation will come here to listen to how we have done and to follow suit. In the Finnish Immigration Service's report 2016, Are you married? , as many have referred to, there was an alarm that 132 children had been identified who themselves, in connection with their asylum application, provided information that they were married. The Authority also concluded that there is likely to be a large number of darkness. The Ombudsman for Children sent out a press release in connection with this, saying that they shared the view that there is a dark number, based on the fact that they had made their own inventory in Malmö and only there found 65 girls who were married. Madam President, I would like The Alliance government initiated a series of measures to prevent forced marriage and child marriage. Among other things, the then rules were tightened to include situations in which the child's vulnerability is exploited without necessarily coercion. This means that pressure from parents or relatives is now covered by criminal law. It became a criminal offence to trick someone into traveling to a country where the person can be married away by force or exploitation. The Alliance government also removed the possibility of obtaining an exemption from the 18-year limit for getting married in Sweden. 2016 brought up to date the fact that despite new legislation there are weaknesses in the regulatory framework. The total ban on child marriage applies to people who are related to Sweden, regardless of whether the marriage has been concluded here or abroad. However, the ban that we have today does not cover cases where none of the parties had a Swedish connection at the time of the wedding. Many refugee children who have been married away in their home country have therefore still been considered married when they have applied for asylum in Sweden. We consider that to be unacceptable. That is an opinion that I think we all share, given that this legislation looks like it is going through today. As early as spring 2017, the Riksdag decided to announce a further restriction on the possibility of approving child marriages. When nothing happened in a year, there was another announcement this spring. Now we finally see the result of Parliament's clear message to the government. The Government proposes a new general rule that no foreign child marriages should be recognised in Sweden. The prohibition shall apply regardless of the parties' connection here at the time of marriage or their age at the time of recognition. Exceptions should never be possible if one of the parties is under the age of 18 when they arrive in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Child marriage is a harmful practice that must be counteracted. Under 18-year-olds may not enter into marriage in Sweden under any circumstances. In contrast, children's marriages are still permitted in many other countries. The proposal aims to ensure that everyone in Sweden is protected against child marriage. It also aims to counteract the existence of child marriages in this country by clearly indicating that such marriages are not acceptable. Finally, the government has come to the fore to present a bill. It is a pity that it has taken so long, but we are pleased that the strengthened legislation is now becoming a reality. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-231	Madam President, I would like We're gonna let kids be kids. I assume we all want that. As a child, you should be allowed to play, learn, choose and choose among all the opportunities that exist in the world. As a child, you shouldn't be forced into the adult world. In 2016, the Finnish Immigration Service had identified 132 married children. Probably there were others that you hadn't identified. Of these children, 129 were girls and 3 were boys — an overwhelming proportion of girls, but it is equally bad regardless of gender. This is a problem which it is important that we take seriously. We in this House have the opportunity to legislate on this today, and I am pleased that the legislation will be tightened up. It is about these children's right to decide for themselves over their lives. Child marriage is in many cases a forced marriage. Threats, violence, pressure and social norms that are hard to resist as an adult become insurmountable obstacles for children, especially if it comes from someone in your absolute vicinity or to whom you are dependent. It is important that we take a stand and show our opinion on this matter. There is an important signal value to spread in standing up for children's rights. I am proud to represent the Left Party, which has pushed forward on this issue and which is a vote for the child's good. In 2014, protection against forced marriages and child marriages was strengthened. The amendment was a step in the right direction and represented a more restrictive approach compared to what it had been like in the past. But there was more to be done. So earlier this year there was a rather heated debate on the issue of child marriage. Various parties were pointed out not to have a sufficiently restrictive stance on this issue. However, work on the issue was already under way, and today we are taking another step and strengthening the protection of children from being married off. It is another step towards allowing children to be children, another step towards showing clearly that we stand up for the children and that we stand up for the most vulnerable, who are mostly girls and women, and their right to their lives and their right to their bodies. Madam President, I would like One in five girls in the world is married. Every day more than 30,000 girls are forced to marry. That'll be over 10 million in a year. Most commonly in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. Child marriage often means losing control of one's own life. Since girls who are married away are often forced to leave school, they have lower levels of education and have more difficulty getting out of poverty. The fact that girls are not allowed to complete their schooling limits their opportunities to participate in society and to achieve the goals and dreams they have. It has consequences, both for the individual and for society. Here, Sweden can make another effort. By strengthening the work for children's rights around the world, we can make the world a safer and better place. Making sure that more children attend school and receive an education reduces the risk of being married away. By contributing to the reduction of armed conflicts, we can reduce the number of child marriages. For example, there is an increase in the number of child marriages in Syria. By working with SRHR, sexual and reproductive health and rights, around the world we can give young people increased opportunities for a better life. A large amount of money is spent on weapons, warfare and the fight against terrorism. Imagine what a small part of all that money could do to prevent, for example, child marriage and create a more decent life for many young people. Let children be children with so-called coke, play and joy – not child marriage! I support the proposal in the report.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-242	Madam President, I would like You'd think I'd come up here to say mean things about the Left Party, but I have to give credit. The Left Party has stood up to child marriage in all its years, and they should be commended for that. However, I would like to ask a question that is closely related to this. Child marriage is part of honor-related violence and oppression. It is part of the system that makes one choose to marry one's child to, in almost all cases, older men. It is good that the Left Party's Jon Thorbjörnson says in this Chamber that one should stand up for the children and the most vulnerable. In my world, the most vulnerable children in Sweden are those who are not actually free to choose who to live with, get to participate in sex education and swimming education and live a life of freedom. I have to say that in that perspective, the Left Party has actually failed so far. The debaters who are debating this issue are being discredited. It discredits its own members of parliament and, in practice, bullies those who push this issue, including Amineh Kakabaveh, who is the chairman of the Parliament's inter-political honorary network. Nor does it want to recognise that honor-related violence and oppression is a different matter from men's violence against women. Men's violence against women is an epidemic and an extremely large problem, but honor-related violence and oppression is a completely different subject. I would like to hear Mr Thorbjörnson reflect on whether you in the Left Party believe that you have done enough when it comes to honour-related violence and oppression, of which child marriage is part, but not all.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-246	Madam President, I would like As a left-wing partyist in today's society, I cannot say that I am satisfied. There are always more steps to take. There's always more to do. We see today that it is still an unequal society. Men's violence against women still exists, so we are not satisfied in any way.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-247	Madam President, I would like I didn't really get the answer to the question. Does the Left Party consider that there is a difference between men's violence against women and honour-related violence? It is in my world, in the world of Liberals and in almost all the worlds of experts two completely different things. Men's violence against women is practiced from a patriarchal system and honor-related violence, and oppression is when an entire family, a family, turns against a person because of norms, honor, tradition, religion, etc. The Left Party has historically been one of the parties in the Swedish Parliament that has always fought against all forms of oppression, but when it comes to honour-related violence and oppression, they have backed the band and in practice suspected all the debaters and politicians – even their own politicians – who have pushed this issue. I think it's very boring. Instead of being part of the solution, you are part of the problem.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-250	Madam President, I would like I am against all forms of violence and oppression. It may be against boys, against girls or against adults and it may be about ethnicity, background or socio-economic status – it doesn't matter. I am against all forms of violence and oppression.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-251	Madam President, I would like Jon Thorbjörnson and I know each other a little bit since before, so I know that he has a fundamentally very good view of trying to help children in vulnerable situations. What I do not quite get together here is that in order to do this with both the heart and the brain, that is to say, legally certain, one needs to have an authority that somehow makes the decisions in this valve that is in the legislation and that we Christian Democrats and Liberals have made a special request about. The Left Party has said no to that. I wonder if Jon Thorbjörnson can develop why one is opposed to dealing with these issues in a legally certain way, which I think would be good for the children.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-253	Madam President, I would like There are currently judicial bodies that can deal with this, and different judicial authorities can deal with this from different perspectives. Then I think they should have the chance to do so and that we should not commit ourselves to just having a court where you can work on these issues.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-254	Madam President, I would like Then my question is whether we agree that there may be quite a few cases in relation to this valve. In the last debate we had about this, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats agreed that there will be quite few cases. If the Left Party agrees that there are quite a few cases, I cannot quite understand why we should divide matters between different authorities that make decisions from different perspectives. It should be an authority that has the knowledge and experience and knows how to deal with this. Something else would be legally insecure. If several different authorities are responsible for this, they can also take different decisions. I don't think it's legal in Sweden, and I don't think it's good either. Jon Thorbjörnson is happy to develop how he feels it would be legally secure when several authorities, instead of one authority, deal with this.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-256	Madam President, I would like I am sure that we can ensure that the right skills are available in all those places, so that each authority should always make the right decisions and have the skills to do so.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-257	Madam President, I would like According to Unicef, 12 million girls were married annually in the world. Girls become wives. Students are expected to give birth and leave school. According to UNICEF, poverty is the main cause of the child's death. In war and conflict, the number of children's marriages increases. This can be seen in Syria, among others, today. In some cases, these girls are taken abroad for prostitution when they are married. Through our Swedish aid, we oppose the foundations of child marriage and strengthen girls' and women's rights in the world. Through various projects but also because Sweden is one of the largest donors to, among other things, the UN Population Fund, we strengthen girls' and women's right to decide over their bodies, their future and their lives. Through legislation to make it impossible to recognise foreign child marriages, on which we are going to vote in this House today, Sweden is likely to have one of the world's strictest laws when it comes to child marriage. It fits well with our international commitment to every child's right to decide who they want to marry when they are adults and every child's right not to be married as a child. It is legislation that not only challenges standards in poor countries that are far from here. It also challenges standards and rules in some of our European neighbours where 16-year-olds are allowed to get married. This is something that has been questioned. I think it is important that we recognise the 18-year limit as the legal limit for when children become adults and that we recognise that everyone who marries before the 18th anniversary is children and thus includes child marriage. Agenda 2030 includes Objective 5 on achieving gender equality, and the empowerment of all women and girls. The Swedish feminist government has worked actively to achieve this goal. Sub-goal 5.3 concerns the elimination of all harmful practices, such as child marriage, early marriages and forced marriages, and female genital mutilation. I think we should see the decision today in the light of that. With the decision today, child marriage will no longer be recognised in Sweden. But we need to take more steps to prevent child marriage for the children who are here, in our country, today. Every year, classmates come back from summer vacation and see empty chairs after children who do not return because they have been taken abroad to be married. School breaks need to be followed up and mapped. And cooperation between the authorities needs to be improved. We need to ensure that no child suspected of being under pressure from any authority to go abroad and marry leaves Sweden. Sweden can do even more to guarantee the rights that we have fought for every child in the world to have. We can do this by having powerful legal tools, such as an exit ban and the possibility to block passports but also by making it more difficult to renounce Swedish citizenship and by giving children better help once they have ended up abroad in marriage. This is part of the work against honour-related violence and oppression carried out by the feminist government. Several of the proposals have been submitted by an investigation and my opinion should be implemented in agreement. The Green Party fully supports the committee's proposal in the report and calls for its approval.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-268	Madam President, I would like At the end of the speech a little was mentioned about progress measures, which I welcome. The removal ban and the blocking of passports are things that the investigation has basically agreed on. There has been a political reference group there. Hopefully, these measures will be taken quite soon, depending on how long we are going to wait for a new government. I would like to ask whether the Green Party sees the need for more measures and perhaps above all the measure that I highlighted earlier about making it punishable to go around the law in Sweden. The Social Democrats see no need to be able in any way to punish those who ignore Swedish laws and regulations and simply live as married to a child in Sweden. I believe that some form of such law should exist. It should also be linked to a penalty. What has now been said is not linked to any punishment whatsoever. Anyone who chooses to ignore the law and informally marries a child here and then lives with that child will never be punished. Unfortunately, the question is not only whether the marriage is registered with the Swedish Tax Agency or not. It's really completely uninteresting for the individual. The question is how the environment around the child experiences marriage.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-272	Madam President, I would like I believe that Mikael Eskilandersson has misunderstood this proposal. It is not aimed at individuals. It is not that individuals are not allowed to live or live with children in marriage, for example. The draft legislation of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs which we are debating today is about how authorities can relate to foreign marriages. Authorities in Sweden should no longer be allowed to accept marriages that a child has entered into in another country. In the past, authorities have in some cases been able to recognise it as a valid marriage in Sweden if the persons have not had any connection with Sweden when the marriage took place. This legislation is not, therefore, about child marriage in the way that Mikael Eskilandersson thinks. On the other hand, there are many issues related to honour-related crimes and the penalties for them. An important issue is the introduction of a penalty for crimes of honour, to further underline that this is particularly serious. As for married children, we must remember that repeated rapes of these children are among the ultimate and most serious consequences. That is one of the ultimate consequences. Quite recently, in such a marriage, there was a judgment about rape of children. Whether there is a need for additional legislation linked to the scenarios that this legislation is aiming at is, I believe, an issue that we need to come back to.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-276	Madam President, I would like I don't want to say I misunderstood this. This is exactly what I'm trying to put my finger on: This is not a law directed at individuals, but child marriage is a problem for individuals and oppression against individuals. Therefore, the law should be supplemented by a follow-up law targeting individuals. After all, the law has no direction toward the individual in itself, and unfortunately it is individuals who are the victims of child marriage. That's where the problem lies. For example, if I choose in any way to marry a 15-year-old and move in with the person concerned and it would not be registered with the Tax Agency, registration is not the problem. The problem is somewhere the morals behind it. That is why we need a supplementary law that prohibits children's marriage completely. After all, the government laid this out and communicated it as a total ban on child marriage. But it's not. It is not a total ban at individual level, but in practice it is just an obstacle to registering more child marriages in Swedish registers. That does not stop the phenomenon of child marriage itself. That is why I believe that more measures are needed, especially for the individual, so that we can dissolve the existing child marriages.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-280	Madam President, I would like I think one thing needs to be clear: what Mikael Eskilandersson is now proposing – if I interpret him correctly – is simply that even adults who have been married for a long time should be able to be prosecuted for crimes because they continue to be married. Now Mikael Eskilandersson is not able to answer this, so I might not ask too many questions. But I see that there are a number of challenges linked to double criminality. I also see a challenge in how to define what should be criminal in such informal marriages. I believe that we need to focus very strongly on the sexual crimes committed in the context of child marriage. It is one of the most important and clear actions in this context that can actually be countered and where criminal law law is in operation. This applies in addition to the penalty base for honour-related crimes which I believe may be relevant, not least because these motives are being investigated and it is simply becoming clear what norms, values and structures are behind some of the crime that exists today.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-283	Madam President, I would like No children should be married in Sweden. It is so obvious that it should not have to be said. Nevertheless, I am fairly certain that this is not the last time that these words are spoken in this House. The reason is that when the government now deposed – after far too long, to be said – finally presents the bill that will form the basis for banning child marriage, one misses the goal on a number of points. Enough because child marriage is now proposed to be prohibited even for foreign citizens, but there are no consequences for those who choose to ignore the law. You can't be married to a child, but if you are, nothing will happen. So one chooses to equate to be married to a child with, for example, walking towards a red man or throwing an ice cream paper on the street. You see it as a minor violation of the rules, a small parenthesis, without penalty. The punishment for rape in Sweden is at least two years in prison, and since repeated rapes may almost be regarded as part of child marriage, the penalty for this crime should be considerably higher. It must be a punishment that discourages, and anyone who does not respect the ban should be able to be sentenced and then expelled. This criminal liability should also include more than the husband who is married to the child; anyone who contributes to child marriage in Sweden must be able to be punished for it. To choose not to act to prevent a child from being married away should be considered as an accessory to marriage and thus also be punishable. Just making child marriages outlawed but ignoring the punishment of those who commit the crime is by no means enough to put an end to this type of child abuse in real life. We need to be much clearer here, and I very much regret that the other parties do not have this insight. For me, ruining the life of a child can never be equated to throwing some junk on the street. Furthermore, Madam President, there is a lack of effective measures to find and help children and young adults who currently live in registered and unregistered child marriages. In 2016, the Finnish Immigration Service identified 132 married children in 80 different municipalities. In the majority of cases, children had been placed with their adult husbands. It is not unreasonable to assume that these 132 children are just the tip of an iceberg and that the actual figure is much higher. Nor is it unreasonable to assume that the part of child marriage known to the Tax Agency represents only a small fraction. Most child marriages are probably never registered. They are concluded through religious ceremonies that are unofficial but where family and friends still have the view that marriage becomes valid. Liberal Robert Hannah said in the March debate that there should be no exceptions to child marriage. Even today, he is clear that children's marriage should not be accepted. Nevertheless, this is exactly what the Liberals are now proposing. They feel that the government goes too far when it says that child marriage should be recognised only if there are exceptional reasons. In cases where persons who have entered into child marriage abroad come to Sweden as adults, the Liberals want only marriages concluded when one of the parties was under 15 years of age to be declared invalid. This means, in practice, that the Liberals want to continue to recognise certain child marriages and retain exceptions in the law. Instead, the Liberals want to place the responsibility on the woman herself to apply for the annulment of the marriage if it was concluded when she was a minor. If you're 21 years old, you're an adult, claims the Liberals, and you can take responsibility yourself. Anyone who has the slightest insight into how honorary culture works clearly understands how this works: A woman who, when she was a child, was forced to marry a much older man and thus deprived not only of her childhood, but also of her own body, in most cases, will not have the opportunity to claim the annulment of the marriage itself and of her own strength. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we believe that all child marriages without exception should be invalid and that the small inconvenience that it entails for two adults to remarry if their marriage is annulled when they come to Sweden is negligible. Why make exceptions to the law and give the little finger when we can send signals to the outside world that we never accept child marriage under any circumstances? Madam President, I would like The Hillevi Larsson of the Social Democrats said in the debate in March: if we do not do this as well as possible, we will once again be standing in the Chamber and seeing that it did not work, and we will have to do it again. That is exactly what I am afraid will happen now, when one chooses to completely disregard criminal liability and leave gaps in the law. On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we will never accept either official or unofficial child marriages. We believe that adult men who choose to share a bed with little girls should be judged as criminals and also punished accordingly. We are the only party that stands behind a real total ban on child marriage with consequences for those who violate the law. Contrary to the path taken by the government – to make half-finished proposals and continue to investigate the matter over and over again – I see no problem in taking a strong and clear position now and immediately enacting the laws needed to stop child marriage for real. No children should be married in Sweden.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-297	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties for the work you have done and which has enabled us to decide today on legislation that is incredibly important to me. But now it's not that I have been exposed to child marriage or have been at risk of it, it's about the children who have come to Sweden – we haven't been able to protect the most needing children. In this debate we have been told that one has done this and the other has not done that. I don't think any of us have done enough. For 12 years, I have been responsible for the government's mission to combat honour-related violence and oppression. We have had a national support phone where professionals could turn. If you'd just sat on that phone one day, you'd understand that we have an incredible amount of work to do. We have children and young people who are being taken out of this country against their will, even though they have repeatedly warned of the fear within them and despite clear legislation that we can take care of children. I think it is incredibly important that we should tighten it up by means of the proposal that is now being made to seize passports and issue an exit ban, but already today we have every opportunity to ensure that these children are taken care of. We have children who suffer from the consequences of genital mutilation and children who seek care but are told that they should go home to their guardians and discuss whether or not to receive care. We have children who are disappointed that their classmates are allowed to go swimming together, girls and boys, while they are allowed to go to the woods or have individual swimming classes because the school is behind the family's demands. We have little girls in preschool who are forced to wear a veil and who are not allowed to play in all the games. We cannot really stand up for the rights of these children. We also have children in Sweden who are forced into marriage against their will. Only this morning, I was on the radio with a girl who told me that she had been taken out of the country and subjected to forced marriage. She called home to seek help in the summer, but realized that the agency was on vacation. She didn't find anyone. I could make an incredibly long list. The one of us in here or the authorities who think we've done enough has not understood anything. But as I said, I am happy that we are still standing here today and will decide on this law. I would also like to thank all the NGOs who have never given up, who have fought, who have told us and who have been the blowtorch on me as an official and now as a politician. They stand up for these children's right to live a life of freedom. In the autumn of 2015 we received a lot of discussions about children who came to Sweden and were in child marriage. Nevertheless, on 1 July 2014 legal amendments had come into force that no children would be in child marriage in Sweden. We had also been commissioned at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland to produce information that would be translated into several languages and where it would clearly appear that no child in Sweden will live in marriage. Nevertheless, there was a total confusion. I can sometimes feel that there is some confusion in this debate as well. It's one thing to admit marriage. This is what today's decision is all about. But even then, in the autumn of 2015, there were all the possibilities for social services to separate these girls, as it usually was, from the adult men. The Social Services Act is still in force. The reason why we decided that no children would be in child marriage is that it is harmful for children to be in child marriage. This is something you're working towards all over the world. We have talked about Agenda 2030 having this in its development goals. But do not forget that in countries where people are risking their lives, individuals are fighting for what we have not managed to take a stand for in this country. None of us risk anything by standing up for the vulnerable children. In 2015, we started to alert responsible politicians. We made contact with the Migration Agency. This then led to the report referred to by several of you. We talked to the National Board of Health and Welfare. There are some things in this report that we need to think about. V i's been talking about 132 kids of which 129 girls. The majority of these girls were 16 - 17 years of age. 14 of them were under 15 years of age. We know quite a lot about this. But we don't know anything about who the men who married the girls are. We haven't chosen to find out. We have no idea. Many times when I've been out debating these issues, I've been told that it's about 17-year-olds who marry 19-year-olds. Who knows anything about it? Of all the cases I know, there's only one case that looks like that. When we talk about unaccompanied minors, we have often been concerned. In some cases it has been discussed that older boys or men make themselves younger. Sometimes you worry that we make younger children older or older people. But I have not heard anyone standing in a square screaming that we in Sweden have actually systematically made little girls into adult women by letting them remain in these marriages. It is great that Maria Stockhaus brought up what happened in Malmö, where they identified 65 cases of children who were in child marriage. In 61 of those cases, the child was left with the adult man. That's where we have the problem. What I think we have left to do now, apart from clear legislation, is to ensure that all the authorities who come into contact with children must have procedures and systematics to ask questions and draw children's attention to their rights, but also clear directives on what to do when you know that children are in child marriage. That responsibility can never lie with the children, but it is our duty. I believe that the confusion that exists in our country is due to the error of our navigation. We do not dare to take a stand and discuss the imbalance of power that exists many times between children on the one hand and guardians and adults on the other, or the conflicts of interest that exist between the rights of the child and the family's way of looking at how children should live. The most sad of all is that we have allowed this to continue. I would like to respond to what has been said by the Swedish Democrats. I can see that this may sound strange on the basis of our request and on the basis of how this is described. I've been in many meetings with lawyers who have debated this bill. The only thing we have come to talk about at those meetings is what happens to 70-year-olds who come here and were married when they were children – what happens to their inheritance rights and so on. I would like to emphasise that what is stated in existing law – Chapter 1. § 8a – is that a marriage should never be declared valid in Sweden, if it is likely that it has been concluded under coercion. Unfortunately, this is not something I have ever heard of someone who has come here knowing. So even today it does not matter at what age a marriage was made; if there has been coercion, we should never admit it. However, as many have said here: if the person who comes here does not know about this, it is clear that it cannot be invoked either. I've fought for children to never be in a child's marriage. That's because we've decided it's gonna be that way. But in Sweden we have 70-year-olds whose families have lived here for four generations and who also married when they were 16-17 because society looked different here then. Are we going to make sure that we also tear up all those marriages? My great fear is that we are once again bringing out an important law to protect children, but that the result is that the perspective of children's rights disappears and that we will talk about 70-year-olds whose marriage we dissolve. I can't let that happen. I chose to become a politician because I hope that, together with all of you, I will continue to stand up for, but above all take the further steps that are now required for, that no marriage involving children should be recognised. The child should also be released and have access to the freedom and childhood that we let other children see as a matter of course.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-315	Madam President, I would like The issue of child marriage has been the subject of several announcements here in Parliament. Child marriage will not be accepted in Sweden even if you are 18 years of age. This means that the legislation that we are establishing today goes further than that in many other European countries. This also goes beyond the announcements that we have had a majority in the past. We'll remember that. So you should not be able to come to Sweden and legally be an adult and claim that you are married. This does not even apply if you present a document from the country you come from that you consider proving it, but then that marriage will be dissolved if it has been concluded before you are 18 years of age. You must then go to the municipality's marriage officer or to your own religious community that has the right to marry and be married again if you want to live with that person. A marriage shall not be dissolved unless there are exceptional reasons for it to be terminated if it has been concluded in the past but is examined when you are 18 years of age or older. This is what will apply from 1 January 2019. Madam President, I would like I want to return the discussion a little bit to what it is all about. It should be assumed that people who live together do not always do so by force but that they have chosen each other because they love each other, want to form a family together and live together. But society must be clear, as has been said earlier. Force should not be accepted. Children should not be allowed to be married. If, as an adult, I find that I no longer want to be married, that the person I married was the wrong person, that I married at the wrong time, at the wrong age, and that there was a compulsion, there is a system for revoking such a marriage. When an authority, as proposed by the Swedish Democrats, seeks you out afterwards to force a divorce that can have consequences for common children, common property, inheritance rights etc., I wonder what it is for society to seek. It's about looking for and smoking out, as Mikael Eskilandersson says. Is it then a society of justice that we have? With regard to the Center Party's reservation of letting the Tax Agency handle the oral contact, we believe that it is a way of pointing out the responsible authority, as the Liberals and Christian Democrats are in their reservation, but also to ensure that adults know their rights and get the tools and knowledge needed to sort out their situation. They may divorce if they have entered into marriage under compulsion and they feel that there are problems with the relationship they have entered into. They can take steps to be able to marry again if necessary. Hence the reason for the Centre Party's reservation, which I support, and I agree with the rest of the report.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-323	Madam President, I would like What I mean by that is quite obvious. The Finnish Immigration Service has identified 132 children living in Sweden as married. I don't think it's very strange to look up those kids. There are also children that we have not yet registered. The 132 that exist, we know about. But there will be additional children in Sweden that we know about who will surely also live as married people. Finding those children and revoking their marriage is not at all strange to me. It is more strange that we should turn a blind eye to this. What kind of society do we get if we seek out children who are married in Sweden? What kind of society do we get if we ignore it? What kind of society do we get if we choose to close our eyes to it because it is difficult and unpleasant to touch? How does Ola Johansson mean we're gonna do it? I don't know about that. Since the Center Party has not put forward any follow-up proposals, the Center Party wants to close its eyes to this. They want us to stick our heads in the sand and pretend: There are probably no children in Sweden who are married, so we probably don't have to do much. That's not the truth. The truth is that there are children today in Sweden who are married. Those marriages I want to seek out and dissolve, period.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-328	Madam President, I would like The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2019. To do what is proposed would mean a system where we have retroactive legislation in Sweden and introduce a law that prohibits anything. Legislation should not mean backing back and claiming that something that has happened in accordance with the previous legislation in force will no longer apply. This is in practice what the Swedish Democrats are proposing here: that we introduce retroactive legislation that seeks out people and cancels their rights based on what they have previously been able to do under previous legislation. Mikael Eskilandersson uses the words In fact, the fact that such an opinion does not give rise to stronger reactions in this House surprises me. Mikael Eskilandersson way of expressing himself leads to a dangerous path where people are hunted by their ethnicity rather than trying to get to the problem itself, namely that children marry and that children are forced into situations where they are subjected to sexual violence and other things that we are chasing after. What Mikael Eskilandersson possibly wants is what we have tools to access. It is not allowed to have sex with children. It is not allowed to abuse any people against their will. It is not allowed to force people into something they do not want. We have tools to access it. We may not be using them well enough. To look back at people, I mean, I'm heading into a dangerous path. That is why we in Sweden should not give the kind of politics that Mikael Eskilandersson stands for any influence in the future.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-333	Madam President, I would like Today we have 14-year-olds living as married in Sweden. As far as I know, there are tools and laws that say that 14-year-olds are not allowed to have sexual relations. These 14-year-olds are effectively subjected to rape. But we're not going to look them up, because that would be retroactive. We are not going to find the children that exist in Sweden. I stand for something else. I can agree with that. Ola Johansson and I usually agree that we stand for different things. In this case, I definitely agree that we stand for different things. I want to look up the 14-year-olds who are married in Sweden or who live as married in Sweden. That you don't want it to be more shocking to me. Then you can say that it is retroactive legislation or whatever you want. The problem is that we have not maintained the existing legislation. In practice, there should have been a total ban today. It is not in practice. That is what the studies have shown with the 132 children who were married in Sweden. It is proof that the laws we have not been able to achieve, or it is the social functions we have that have not been sufficient. But it is still the case that children should not be married. To me, marriage is sacred in that marriage is to be made between two adult people, and it is to be done by free will.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-338	Madam President, I would like I understand Mikael Eskilandersson's reply as saying that we should have retroactive legislation in Sweden, at least in this case. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that Mikael Eskilandersson wants to depart from Swedish law and introduce retroactive legislation, so that people who violate a law that has been passed at a later date can be found afterwards. If I understood Angelica Lundberg correctly – she can't take a line on me, and neither can Mikael Eskilandersson – in addition to this, one should hunt, punish, sentence and expel people who have violated this law that you are introducing from 1 January 2019. I think that nobody is responding to this, Madam President, astounding. What the Swedish Democrats want to get at is what we want to achieve with active and successful integration, involving all parties, both individuals and society. We do so by informing people about their rights, ensuring that people come to work or education and organising society with housing so that it is possible in a natural way to get in touch with the standards that apply. People can thus be aware of the ways in which we can report and allow people to be convicted of, for example, sexual abuse or various acts of coercion to which others are subjected. This is the way forward. This should not be done by introducing retroactive legislation, as Mikael Eskilandersson, with the support of his party partner, as one should also pursue, punish, condemn and expel those who have broken later law.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-342	Madam President, I would like The reason I am going back up in the speaker's chair is that I was very provoked by the line between Robert Hannah and Left Party Jon Thorbjörnson. Above all, Jon Thorbjörnson's total lack of answers to the questions he received from Robert Hannah. In various debates, I myself have met left-wing parties who have relativised the oppression of honour and have thrown themselves with expressions such as our patriarchal oppression is as strong in Östermalm as in the suburbs. Such argumentation has contributed to the fact that we have not been able to discuss the problem that honour repression is actually in Swedish society today. We have not been able to get to grips with the problems seriously. The Left Party has a great responsibility there. When it comes to child marriage, the Left Party should certainly pay tribute to its position and commitment to the fact that children in Sweden should be married. But when it comes to opposition to honour oppression in general, there is every reason for the Left Party to be truly ashamed.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-345	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' motivational reservation on the matter at hand. The Swedish Democrats are a Europe-friendly but EU-critical party. Intergovernmental cooperation with other European countries is a matter of course. This is something hugely important for Sweden. This important cooperation includes the policy areas which the Committee on Culture is involved in preparing, but also a number of other important policy areas such as trade, a particularly significant example. Intergovernmental cooperation is fundamentally good, but the same cannot be said to apply to supranationality. Unfortunately, over time, the EU has moved in a supranational direction, without sufficient consideration for national self-determination. The Swedish Democrats believe that much of what the EU's new youth strategy concerns could have been fully implemented within the framework of bilateral and multilateral agreements between free and independent nation states. The fact that work on youth policy in the EU has, to date, pushed forward changes in legislation in the Member States is reflected in EU documents related to this dossier. This is not something that, in the course of the matter, has been problematized in the least, except by the Swedish Democrats. Yet, for example, Article 165 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the European Parliament and the Council must not adopt measures that contribute to the harmonisation of legislation in the Member States in the field of youth. That this happens anyway gives the Swedish democrats reason to look at the matter with scepticism. Beyond the question of the level of decision-making that should apply to youth policy issues such as this, there are also other aspects worth commenting on here. Madam President, I would like The values of the EU and the concept of European identity are highlighted in several parts of EU documents related to this case. Among other things, it shows that the EU wants young people to work for change in accordance with these values and this identity, but the meaning of the concepts is not further specified. In this context, the use of these concepts gives the impression that the EU wants to impose a kind of values from above and below instead of finding forms for this to emerge organically from below and above. Instead, the values and identities that have emerged in Europe organically throughout history for hundreds, even thousands, of years in the various Member States are what would in fact need to be affirmed. That would be the only healthy and real thing. What I have now preferred, I see as some important points to comment, not least in the light of the motivational reservation that the Swedish Democrats have in their opinion.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-353	Madam President, I would like Space research and development are important, and it is an overall research that can be used both in space and on earth. Therefore, the then alliance government took the initiative to launch a space investigation, SOU 2015:75. The study suggested, among other things, that Sweden should have a space strategy. Since it is a very important piece of work, the Alliance has been advocating this since then. I therefore feel it is very positive to be able now to support the committee's proposal for a national strategy for Swedish space activities with long-term strategic objectives in order to strengthen it and the efforts that the government intends to make to work towards the objectives. Madam President, I would like A comprehensive national space strategy is needed, among other things, as there are many major actors involved in space activities. It is important that space activities start from a holistic perspective where the benefits for Swedish society are in focus. Sweden is today a leading space nation and will of course continue to be so. Our country is often mentioned in various international contexts for our important and ambitious work in this area. It is also important to have stable funding for this high-tech research, which often has long lead times. Madam President, I would like It is important that the Riksdag is able to follow the continued work on how the space strategy develops and that the Government continuously evaluates the long-term strategic objectives of the strategy for Swedish space activities and reports regularly to the Riksdag. This has been clearly pointed out in several movements from the Moderates and the Alliance. Madam President, I would like Why, then, should we have a strategy for Swedish space activities? Yes, research is important for the whole of Swedish society. Technologies developed for space activities can be used in many areas – in both the aerospace and automotive industries, in digitalisation, in automation, in advanced production and materials technology, and also in microwave technology. However, coordinated international cooperation for national security and cooperation between civil and military purposes is also important. The results of the European Space Agency (Esa) and the EU space programme, such as satellite navigation and Earth observation data, shall be made available to Swedish users. Swedish space activities should also be conducted in a sustainable way, and space should be kept free of conflicts. This should help to secure Swedish access to space. Another important point is equality between men and women. Sweden is a leading country in terms of equal opportunities for men and women to invest in a career in space activities, which can also increase interest in science among both young men and women. We shall, of course, encourage this in many different areas. Another important point is our continued environmental work. Space activities connect the world and make international collaboration necessary. As we all know, environmental work worldwide sees no borders. We have to work on this globally. The space industry makes space available and helps us understand the earth. It can also help us to continue working on our environmental objectives. Madam President, I would like The list can be made even longer, but I choose to stop here. Once again, I support the committee's proposal.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-366	Madam President, I would like Today, Parliament will finally decide on a Swedish space strategy. The Swedish National Audit Office presented a report in 2013 pointing out that clearer political governance would be needed in Swedish space operations. The then alliance government set up an investigation to develop a Swedish space strategy. That investigation was presented three years ago, during the last term of office. Ever since then, the Center Party and the Alliance have been driving the Riksdag towards a Swedish space strategy. The government parties cannot be accused of being hasty on this issue. Given the length of the preparation period, greater vision and sharper proposals could be expected. But it is at least a good basis for Swedish space activities in the future that there will be a strategy in place. Sweden has been engaged in space activities for more than 50 years. Among other things, we have a strong space industry in western Sweden and Esrange in northern Sweden, and our research on the space side is in the international top class in terms of quality. This is something to take into account in order to strengthen Sweden's position as a space nation in the future. Politically, we have a great responsibility to continue to take place as a space nation, because it is an absolutely crucial issue for many sectors. Space creates the conditions for new technology and development, and there are many applications – everything from environment and climate to defence and security to research and education is affected by what is happening in space. It is about both national and international initiatives, which are crucial for creating new services that meet society's needs but also jobs and innovations here in Sweden. The space strategy must not only become a fine-worded political document but must become a document that delivers action. Then this could be very good. A country in our vicinity, the UK, has adopted an exciting space strategy with a focus on delivering action. Britain is a country of success, which is currently seeing strong growth on the space side by not only becoming a strategy but also becoming action accordingly. I therefore welcome the fact that large parts of the Education Committee and the Riksdag will support an announcement to the Government to follow up on the strategic objectives identified by the space strategy, to continuously evaluate the space strategy and to give Parliament a good insight into this. It is absolutely crucial for us to be able to maintain our position and ensure that there is political action on the document that we are discussing and debating today. The Center Party supports two reservations in the report. One reservation highlights the importance of technology neutrality in language. At the moment, much is happening in the space sector around Sweden and the world. It is a question of states that spend a great deal of resources on developing new technologies and making new progress, but also of a fantastic emergence of private companies that invest and want to be involved in space development. Then it is important that we create the conditions for innovation, jobs and competitiveness by looking at this in a more technology-neutral way. The second reservation supported by the Center Party highlights questions about funding and the Swedish National Board of Space's dependence on the exchange rate. A large part of the Space Board's budget, two thirds, goes to international projects. The fact that Sweden is involved in international space projects is crucial for Swedish industry and technological development. However, fluctuations in exchange rates have a great impact on it, and this must be taken into account. The National Space Board will have major problems if the Crown weakens. It is therefore necessary to review the consequences if this happens – how it affects the funding and opportunities of the National Board of Space in the future. Of course, the Center Party supports both of these reservations, but for the winning time, I only agree to reservation number 2. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants us to take new approaches to strengthen Sweden as a space nation in the future and create the conditions for Sweden to continue to be successful in this area. Space is a strategic asset for society's needs but also for Swedish industry, as it has many additional effects. It will have positive effects on education and research, on defence and on the environment if this is done properly. It is important to be active both nationally and internationally to create better conditions for innovation and new jobs. The space strategy that Parliament is discussing today lays a good foundation, but it must also deliver action. It is important for jobs, innovations and new services in society.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-378	Madam President, I would like Please excuse my voice; I was sick all last week. In the report, which is called A Strategy for Swedish Space Activities, there have been six follow-up movements. A number of these are from the Left Party. In the letter, the Government presents a national strategy for Swedish space activities with long-term strategic objectives to strengthen it and the efforts that the Government intends to make to work towards the goals. I would like to highlight the most positive aspect of the report. The Government stresses that the division between women and men among researchers and employees in Swedish space activities should be equal. I believe that, regardless of which area we work in, it is important that we think on the basis of an equality aspect. In this case, it goes into research issues, which have been relevant in the past. We have seen a misallocation of research funds in favour of male researchers. That is why this is a positive sign, and we would like to emphasise this positive part of the report. At the same time, the Left Party has a number of proposals and motions in the report. The proposal for a strategy for Swedish space activities states a lot about the importance of Swedish space activities for climate research, which should also be the main objective of Swedish space activities. The Government writes, among other things, that Swedish space activities should be conducted in a long-term sustainable way... Furthermore, the opportunities for space activities to contribute to the work on Agenda 2030 and the global goals should be promoted. ..................................................... At the same time, very little is mentioned about the impact of overall space activities on the climate. For example, much of the rocket fuel used around the globe is not only hazardous to the environment; it can also be toxic. It is therefore important that an extension of Esrange, for example, is made with the best climate in mind. Any emissions from space-related research for the benefit of society are more defensible than emissions and pollution from the private commercial space industry. I and the Left Party therefore believe that the strategy should emphasise that the activities of Esrange should be conducted in accordance with the climate policy objectives. The key word for international space activities has long been peace. Through the United Nations Space Treaty, Sweden has also committed itself to operating space activities for peaceful purposes for the benefit of mankind. Despite this, many military operations are taking place today with the help of space technology and data originating in Sweden. The government states in the report that space should be kept free of conflict. At the same time, we know that there are a number of activities going on in space research that will mean that space will not be conflict-free either. The strategy states that Sweden will work actively in international bodies to produce relevant governance documents and other agreements aimed at keeping space accessible to all and free from weapons. This should be self-evident. I believe, however, that there is a need to be clear that Sweden stands by agreements already made. Sweden, as I mentioned earlier, has ratified the UN Space Treaty. The Space Treaty states that space should be used solely for peaceful purposes. Neither nuclear weapons nor other weapons of mass destruction are allowed, and states must act peacefully in space. Despite this, weapons designed specifically for space are currently being developed. I am concerned about how companies and states do not respect space law and that weapons in space may become a reality, which will have devastating consequences. It should therefore be clarified in the strategy for Swedish space activities that Sweden will work to ensure that all nations comply with and respect the Space Treaty and other agreements made at the UN in relation to space. Finally, I would like to say that, in most parties, we still agree on the main features of the space strategy. It is positive but, at the same time, rather sad that we find it easier to agree on space than on the society in which we live today, its fundamental human rights and the right of people to seek asylum in our country. I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-392	Madam President, I would like Everything that can be invented has already been invented. This is a quote that has been attributed to the working Director-General of the US Patent Office at the end of the 19th century, Charles H. Duell. It is true that it is disputed whether he really expressed himself in this way, but I would nevertheless like to illustrate the fact that research and development today has taken us further than we thought 100 years ago. Looking ahead, we can only conclude that we will still be amazed at what we can achieve. I read that China recently exhibited a model of its new space station, the Heavenly Palace 2, and there are ambitions to colonize the moon by 2050. A moon base is also the ambition of the United States, and the battle of the moon is a first step in making manned trips to the planet Mars. Madam President, I would like This may sound like science fiction to anyone, but progress is progressing rapidly. Space activities are becoming increasingly important for our modern society. In this time of development, it is important and long awaited that we now adopt a strategy for Swedish space activities. As developments are now progressing rapidly, it is important that we as a country do not miss the opportunity to keep up with it. Madam President, I would like We believe that there is reason to be more clear about the Space Board's mission. Sweden should strive to be agenda-setting, and national initiatives should be prioritised even if space policy itself is international with cooperation at both European and global level. But only with good own ability to implement and participate in space projects can Sweden be a sought-after partner and exert influence in international collaboration. It is therefore important that the funds allocated to the National Space Board are not used solely for the development of Esrange and the planned launch of satellites. In this context, the Christian Democrats would also like to emphasise the importance of Nordic cooperation on space issues, as Norway, for example, has similar activities at Andøya. The letter describes Esrange as a unique civilian space base for launch of rockets and balloons. However, we believe that there is a lack of a clear path in the strategy as to whether or not Esrange can become a launch point for satellites. The Christian Democrats' view of Swedish engagement in space policy is that all activities in space should aim to generate useful data for research and societal functions. Research will lead to societal benefit. This is important, and therefore a space strategy should demonstrate the creation of useful space data and that this is done in an efficient way to ensure that users continue to benefit in the future. The Christian Democrats have on several occasions called for a strategy for the Swedish space industry and therefore a long-term policy in this area. We note that what has now been presented in its form is more a letter and a statement than a real strategy, aiming at how our country can maintain and develop the high-tech activities that exist in different parts of the country in the short and long term. For example, continuous measurements of the atmosphere are needed, which can provide reliable data for climate researchers' models. The contribution of Swedish space activities to the knowledge of climate change should be a cornerstone of Swedish space strategy. It also states that it is often SMEs that are responsible for innovation and growth and that their importance for development should be clearly highlighted. A national Swedish space strategy should take into account the social benefits of invested funds. Then I mean outstanding research on climate effects, effective societal functions and industrial growth. The Christian Democrats would also like to stress the importance of the Swedish Space Company, SSC, having a plan for financing the coercive needs of investments if Esrange and Swedish space activities are to continue to be at the forefront. A future government, whatever it may be, should therefore return to Parliament with additional information on the financing of the space strategy. We believe that a change in the current space team is also required to facilitate commercial space operations in Sweden. The previous government has announced a review of the Space Act, and I would like to stress the importance of this being the case in the future. Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but I only support our reservation No 5.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-406	Madam President, I would like From the Liberals' side, we welcome the fact that Parliament is finally able to discuss and take a position on this letter. My predecessor and colleague Mathias Sundin, who unfortunately is no longer in the Parliament, was very stubborn in this House and, under I do not know, asked the government's minister how long we would be able to come up with a space strategy. Several of my colleagues have touched on the issues of substance policy, which is why it is important that we have a space strategy. The then Minister of Research Jan Björklund also took on board the criticism that came from the Swedish National Audit Office 2013. That criticism revealed that we do not really have an overall picture, that there is no cooperation, no political transparency or any broader interest in these issues, other than the margin, and that we should do something about it. When you have to wait for such an important document for three years, you also expect it to be something of greater weight – a powerful proposal that we could decide on today, with concrete initiatives, legislative changes and priorities. As I sat waiting to get up in the speaker's chair, I read again in the strategy. It gives a general overview. It reminds us that we are a small country but a great space nation, that we invest a great deal in research and that we have good researchers. That's true, but we can't live on old records. Recurrently in the analysis, in the Swedish National Audit Office's report and not least in Ingemar Skogö's investigation – the former governor of my county, Västmanlan d, investigated the space policy in 2014 and 2015 – it is stated that in order to catch up with countries like the United States, we must act much more forcefully. Against this background, we have repeatedly called for a sharp strategy, and only in April this year we asked the government whether there would be any strategy at all. After all, three years had passed since the government accepted the investigation. In May came the strategy that we are now discussing. As far as the content itself is concerned, we have no greater input than a general welcome, but from the Liberals we would have liked more concrete proposals, such as what was mentioned about the ambitions of the Kiruna facility. Nor do I see any time frame for the strategy. I've been working on other strategies in politics. You usually set some goals about when to get started and make concrete proposals. This makes it all the more remarkable that the Left Party reserves its reservations about what we in the majority of committees agree on, namely that we should constantly evaluate the strategy precisely in order to have a systematic follow-up and act pressure on the government for things to happen. We in the Liberals are, of course, behind all our reservations, but I would particularly like to call for reservation 9 on the other content of the strategy for space activities. We would have liked to go a little further. It's not a secret. We have put forward a couple of sharp proposals in the Education Committee and in the Riksdag, for example on privately manned space travel from Sweden. There are countries that have come much further. It is a question of stimulating businesses and, not least, tourism. We also propose a law on asteroid mining. There, too, there is the possibility of commercialisation of certain data, which could be further developed. The Månbass discussion in Europe is also ongoing. How should Sweden position itself there, and what ambition do we have – should we be fully involved? We also want to see more Swedish astronauts. It was written history in 2006, when Christer Fuglesang, the first and so far only Swedish astronaut, made his journey from Cape Canaveral. He can't be the last one. Twelve years have passed now, and no one else from Sweden has yet gone up into space. We think that this is very important, not least linked to the goal of increasing interest in science and technology. In the letter, there is a lot of focus on colleges and universities. There is not much about high school and definitely nothing about primary and preschool. If you are to have a strategy with a long-term perspective and really increase interest in the technology subject, you have to start early. At least that's my conviction. With these words, I am in favour of reservation 9.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-414	Madam President, I would like Never do I feel as small as when I relate myself to eternity and infinity, or for that matter to the origin of the earth and life. In the time perspective billions of years and the space perspective billions of light-years, what does six minutes mean here in the speaker's chair? But before this runs into something philosophical, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's leading space nations. Our geographical location is not without significance, but more important are our ambitions as a knowledge nation and our successes in technological development, research and innovation. It is the result of conscious political positions. Strong public funding of space activities provides stable conditions over time and is a fundamental prerequisite for the development and progress of space activities. That is why it is so much needed to point out in a strategy the direction of future space policy so that we can maintain our position of strength. A fundamental starting point for the strategy is the idea of space as a global common ground. All states have the same right to explore and use space for peaceful purposes. This means that international cooperation, peace and security policy are in the clear focus of the strategy. As technology evolves, space actors are becoming more and more important, and so international talks and agreements on how to keep space accessible and free from conflict are also increasing. The strategy identifies the UN, the EU and Esa as particularly important international bodies in which we in Sweden will have an active role in producing effective international agreements. Madam President, I would like Space is important to life on earth. Therefore, societal benefits are an overall starting point for the strategy. It is clearly stated that Swedish space activities will contribute to the implementation of Agenda 2030. When I asked my daughter, who is five years old, if she knows what space is, she replied: Yes, I know that. That's what's above the sky! And with regard to Agenda 2030, we can think about it that way. If we can look at the earth in perspective from there above the sky, we can see things and places on our planet that can tell us something about how it is that we would otherwise have no idea. Mainly by observing climate and environmental impacts, space activities can contribute to the implementation of Agenda 2030. Navigation, weather forecasting, communication and much more depend entirely on functioning space-based systems. With addiction also comes vulnerability. The threats may be solar storms, space debris collisions or targeted attacks. In order to reduce our vulnerability, we need to put in place adequate safeguards to secure our systems. The space industry is good for the Swedish knowledge society and for our growth and competitiveness. In addition to jobs, military capabilities and advanced research, the space industry also offers great opportunities for other sectors. The high demands on space industry products to function in an extreme environment pushes the limits of what can be manufactured and constructed. This provides knowledge that can also be used in other areas and contributes to society's competitiveness outside the space industry. Technology developed for space systems can be used in many other areas, such as the aerospace and automotive industries, digitalisation, automation and so on. In addition, the need for the space industry to develop fully circular systems in which all components of waste are exploited can be added. This need can drive knowledge of how sustainable development can be here on earth too. Space is a rapidly changing industry, and the Swedish constitutions have come into being quite decades ago. These need to be reviewed and adapted to current needs and future opportunities. The Space Act should enable industry to attract private capital to Swedish space activities to a greater and faster extent. Madam President, I would like Space activities must be more equal. Although the gender distribution of pupils in the nature and technology programmes in upper secondary school is fairly even, the inverse recruitment of men is a fact of nature and technology education in higher education. The whole of society and all sectors benefit from both women and men having access to them. Women's access to higher education in science and technology must therefore be increased. This would allow the selection to raise the level of students and researchers in the field. Therefore, the strategy sets out the goal that Sweden should be a leading country in terms of equal opportunities for both women and men to invest in a career in space activities. Madam President, I would like Allow me also to become a little regional patriotic and tell you about my county: Norrbotten. Norrbotten is the county that has the heavy base industry, the cool climate and the great high-tech know-how that makes Norrbotten one of the strongest growth regions in Sweden. Norrbotten also has the space capital – Kiruna. In Kiruna there are important actors for Swedish space activities, such as the Institute for Space Physics, which has developed instruments and other mojängs that exist in almost all of our solar system. There is also Luleå University of Technology space campus, which trains civil engineers in space technology. And so there is Esrange, which several speakers have mentioned before, which is an important part of the infrastructure needed for the space industry, for data collection and for research, and which the strategy also points out as valuable for Swedish and international space activities. Let us work together to put in place the investments needed for Esrange to also become a launch site for small satellites. It would be good for Kiruna, for Norrbotten, for Sweden and for Europe. Space research is about knowing more about infinity and eternity. But it is also about knowing more about the earth, about finding out more about how the universe and the world are possessed and about answering some of our existential questions and developing things that we have very direct benefit from. Space industry can lead to growth and innovation that we would otherwise miss out on. The presence in space builds military capability. But space is also an arena for international cooperation and a global concern. There are many reasons for us to get together in broad agreement on the importance of space activities. Overall, it is absolutely essential that we now have in place a strategy for Swedish space activities and its future.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-426	Madam President, I would like As far as this report is concerned, we do not have a request. I was going to talk about the space strategy and not about the follow-up motions dealt with in the report. We think, in general, that the space strategy, presented in the form of a strategic document, is quite all right. The largest sum of space activities from our country goes to the EU's space projects. It may nevertheless be natural, as this activity requires a high degree of collaboration. The space strategy put forward by the previous government is not remarkable in any way and does not stand out. Rather, the strategy contains a lot of obvious things that we can support. We find it difficult to point out any direct strangeness in the strategy, except one. Some speakers have spoken about this, and this concerns the military use of space. I believe that there is a clear discrepancy in the strategy document. Let me exemplify this. It states that strategic objectives should be to prevent the deployment of weapons in space and to prevent it becoming an arena for conflict and space and space services being used for peaceful purposes in a way that promotes human welfare and sustainable development. Yes, of course we agree. We don't want nuclear weapons in space either. It's obvious. And of course, our activities in space will benefit both human welfare and other things. Furthermore, it says that efforts should be made to ensure that Sweden will work actively in international bodies and produce relevant governance documents and other agreements aimed at keeping space accessible to all and free from weapons. We agree with that. At the same time, however, it states that a strategic objective should be for civil and military actors to collaborate on research and development and use of space systems so that synergies between civil and military space activities are exploited. A trategic objective should also be that state space activities contribute to increasing Sweden's security by ensuring that Sweden's foreign, security and defence policy interests are met and that national military capabilities are strengthened. So we want to strengthen military capabilities while keeping space free from weapons. In fact, the strategy paper could have been much clearer here as to what it means by strengthening military capabilities while keeping space free of arms and conflict. The two things can be impossible to reconcile. As politicians you want to sit on many chairs at the same time, but you probably shouldn't sit on too many chairs at the same time in the same document. Probably all states want to use space to strengthen their military capabilities, just as the previous government has proposed that we do. But it is necessary to explain much more clearly what is meant by these various propositions. We are not calling for anything here, Madam President, but we would nevertheless like to draw attention to the discrepancy in the document. We also welcome the fact that it is stated that we should safeguard our military capabilities and our security policy interests. Those wordings should have been made even clearer.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-436	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to talk a little bit about the difference between military capabilities and placing weapons in space, because Robert Stenkvist raised that particular issue in his speech. I think we have a fairly broad consensus in this House that we want to build a Swedish military capability because we have an uncertain world situation. The need for it has increased in recent decades, one might say. We agree that we want to make defence investments. The defense uses space in a way that touches civilian purposes, to quite a large extent. It is also clearly stated in the strategy that there are synergies between the systems that are for civilian purposes and the military use of the same information. It is primarily about navigation and communication, I imagine. There is a difference between using the information you can collect from space or with space systems and deploying weapons to shoot at each other from space. I am thinking: one thing we think is a reasonable purpose and, in fact, an argument for having a strong space business. It can build our defence capabilities and our military capabilities. The second is a reprehensible way of conducting war. War is reprehensible in every way. From our horizon, we think that international cooperation for peace and security is the key, and space should not be the arena for any conflicts on earth. Then one could ask Robert Stenkvist : How do you, as a nationalist, view the idea of international cooperation?
i-12529ee09ff093f8-441	Madam President, I would like As a nationalist, I want us to work together in all the areas where we benefit from cooperating. Space is an excellent example of an area in which we must cooperate widely across Europe and North America, yes, all over the world. It would be ridiculous to think that Sweden can carry out huge, expensive space projects without cooperating. It's not serious to believe such a thing. With regard to the military capability that I mentioned, perhaps some speakers are right to say that the document would have been clearer and more concrete. If I had just read the other half of the document, I would have had a completely different view than if I had read the first half. I absolutely agree that we should also use space to strengthen our security and our military capabilities, as I also said in the speaker's chair, and as Mr Shield quite rightly said, we can do that without directly placing weapons there. As I said, this should have been made clearer. As it is now, the first part of the document reads that we want a very peaceful space, where we really cooperate all over the world with no military purposes at all, while the last part of the document gives the opposite view. I agree: we must use space in all the ways we can, also to strengthen our national security.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-445	Madam President, I would like After all, the strategy points out a direction, a direction, and a priority. If you read the whole document, which you have to assume those who will be governed by the document do, you can see the perspectives that I highlighted as the starting point, i.e. social benefits, peace, international cooperation, knowledge and innovation. I am thinking that this is still a fairly clear priority. That is the direction we are pointing out. I would like to continue to ask Robert Stenkvist about cooperation. After all, you want to leave the European Union and are much more interested in things that are good for Sweden than things that are good for everyone. Then you might ask, ‘ Who wants to cooperate with someone who wants to cooperate only in things that benefit their own interests? ' If our motive for cooperating with someone else is always about our self-interest, who will want to enter into cooperation with such a nation state? Here I would say that the nationalism of Robert Stenkvist's party is purely counterproductive when it comes to our opportunity to be a prominent space nation.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-448	Madam President, I would like No, it's all wrong. Before joining the EU, we traded with the whole of Europe and the whole world and had lots of collaborations. We will certainly continue to do so. In addition, we want to leave the EU after a referendum. It is often forgotten, but it is the Swedish people who will ultimately be allowed to decide. There are misconceptions that are repeated over and over again. We want to deal even more with Europe. We want to deal even more with the rest of the world. If we do not trade with other countries, we will end up at a level of development that ends in the Stone Age. We're no dumber than we understand that. We are drifting away from the subject here, but perhaps it is not mainly my fault that we are doing it. It is Europe as an organisation that we do not like. England is one of the countries that has been prominent in world trade. Now they are leaving the EU, not because they want to stop working together and definitely because they want to stop acting, but because Europe has supranationalism and a lot of other problems that cost huge sums of money. We believe that Sweden is paying too much of the EU budget, and I fear it will be even bigger. I am worried about when we enter a recession and are going to increase our fee to the EU. As far as technology development and innovation are concerned in the rest of the document, we think it is okay, and that is why we have not raised any follow-up motion. We think it is a good thing, and we agree with it.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-453	Madam President, I would like Space is great, and it interests even the smallest. I currently have the lead motif for the cartoon Children's Program Space recruits on the brain after seeing countless episodes in the last few days. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a strong space nation, and we shall continue to be. As a society, we shall take advantage of the opportunities for development provided by the space industry. It is about how we on earth can use the technology we have developed for the most extreme conditions, and it is about taking advantage of the data generated not least by European space cooperation. The information we receive from observations from space is of great importance in, for example, climate monitoring. This is important for Sweden and the world to achieve the global climate and sustainability goals of Agenda 2030. It is important that Sweden continues to have a prominent role and that we also continue to develop methods to reuse rocket parts and in other ways make space operations themselves more sustainable. However, space activities themselves in many ways contribute positively to the work for a sustainable climate. The fact that space remains a peaceful place is absolutely crucial to mankind's security. It is very important that Sweden continues to work to ensure that all countries respect these basic principles. It is also good that this issue is so central in the government's space strategy. Madam President, I would like Several have talked about gender equality in space research and the space industry. This is, of course, an issue that the Green Party has been monitoring in terms of education and research in general, and we think it is important that it is included here too. I am pleased that this is the case. Finally, I would like to thank the two trainees who have helped me to write this speech. Hilda Immerstrand and Embla Monemar came with me a few days last week. There are two amazing girls who I hope will either get into space or come back as Members of this House – or possibly win some kind of horse competition, if one can start from the interests of these girls today. I support the Committee on Education's proposal in the report on a strategy for Swedish space activities.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-459	Madam President, I would like The Government's letter A national strategy for ESS and the surrounding knowledge environment presents a national strategy with overall objectives for Swedish participation in and hosting the international research facility European Spallation Source, which is being built outside Lund. The Moderates welcome this letter, although it would have been desirable for the government to have presented a national strategy in this area even earlier. By way of comparison, the Danish Government presented its strategy for ESS already in November 2015. If Swedish education and research are to stand up in global competition, Madam President, there are of course a number of factors involved. However, the international exchange is a crucial element for a small country like Sweden to be able to assert itself in international competition. This applies both to the conditions for international researchers to apply to Sweden and to contribute their research as well as to ensure that international students choose to study all or part of their education in our country. If Sweden is to increase its attractiveness, Madam President, changes need to be made to increase that mobility. It is mainly about removing the problems and obstacles that limit the opportunities for international students and researchers to study and research in Sweden. For incoming students and researchers, there are today a number of obstacles, mainly due to long processing times with Swedish authorities and problems in visa procedures and applications for residence permits. This slows down and, to some extent, even makes it impossible for people to participate in research in Sweden. This is a problem that needs to be addressed if we are to recruit the expertise that is required now that Sweden has invested so heavily in establishing internationally world-leading research infrastructure in Sweden, Madam President. This applies not only to ESS but also to Sci Life Lab and the Max IV laboratory, which is also located in Lund. These are facilities that are expected to receive thousands of guest researchers. Madam President, I would like A national strategy is needed for us to succeed in reaping the benefits of the huge, heavy investments that Sweden is making in this. Today, Sweden takes far too little place in planning, production and ultimately also participation in the international research infrastructures we are already participating in. This is not something that must continue now that we have this infrastructure in place in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Given the proximity to Denmark, it is important for the ESS that Sweden succeeds in becoming attractive not only when it comes to recruiting expertise to the country but also when it comes to getting them to want to settle in Sweden when they participate in activities at ESS. Living conditions in the form of access to housing, childcare and English-speaking schools and jobs for accompanying partners are crucial elements for this. In order to attract foreign researchers and other key people to Swedish working life, Madam President, Sweden has already taken a number of measures. Among other things, we have a special tax relief for people who come as experts from other parts of the world, the so-called expert tax. The criteria for the tax vary widely in different countries – in other words, it is nothing Sweden is alone about – and evaluations show that these variations have an impact on how many recruitments are made possible. In a study, the Öresund Institute has followed up and compared the number of key recruitments to Sweden and Denmark, Madam President, in order to show that there are significant differences in Denmark's favour that make researchers prefer to go there. One of the reasons is that the income limit for applying for expert tax is higher in Sweden than in Denmark. Another is that the Danish expert tax is valid for five years, compared to the Swedish that only applies for three years for those who come to Sweden to participate in a project. Another difference is that the Danish expert tax also applies to Danish citizens who have been active in other countries for a long time but choose to move back to Denmark to participate in projects and research in their home country, while the Swedish only applies to people who have no previous connection to Sweden. These are some of the rules that currently set up unnecessary, complicated obstacles that make it impossible for experts and researchers to go to Sweden. Another such obstacle is that people who want to work in Sweden today must have a job before they have the opportunity to get here to work. It may be very difficult to go through a process of employment from another country, even if it is a matter of highly qualified workers who want to come here to look for a job. One option to facilitate this would be to introduce special talent visas for, for example, highly qualified people with specific skills or expertise who apply to Sweden. This can be found, for example, in Canada and the Netherlands. Should the ESS strategy now on the table bear some fruit, Madam President, general improved measures are also needed to attract researchers to Sweden and participate in research here. As I said, we in the Moderates welcome the strategy that is on the table and think it is good that it is finally in place, but we miss these elements. We can also note that many of the measurable objectives clearly defined in the Danish strategy, for example, are missing from the Swedish strategy. Our desire is also to supplement the Swedish strategy with suggestions on how we can better recruit and maintain talent in the country. Madam President, I would like Against this background, I can conclude that our view is that the government should monitor the conditions for attracting and retaining researchers at ESS and, if necessary, return with proposals for measures to improve the research climate in general in Sweden. It is about enabling the strategy to be successful. I commend the Moderate reservation.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-472	Madam President, I would like Today we will consider the government's letter on a national strategy with overall objectives for Swedish participation in and hosting the international research facility European Spallation Source, ESS, which is currently being built outside Lund and which is expected to be in full operation in 2025. ESS is a long-term initiative that has been dealt with and decided upon by several different governments and many different constellations here in Parliament's chambers. Already in 2009, Europe's research ministers decided that the construction and operation of the ESS research infrastructure should be located in Lund. Ownership has changed over the years, and since 2013, it consists of a European Research Infrastructure Consortium – the so-called ERIC – where 13 EU Member States are responsible for managing and financing the facility. The last signed agreement is from March 2016. Sweden thus hosts two research infrastructures that can be used to study the smallest structures in different types of materials using neutrons and X-rays. On the other hand, we host the ESS, and on the other hand, we host Max IV. It is a laboratory that has the world's brightest synchrotron in the field of X-ray light and thus attracts international interest. The strategy we are discussing today takes a broad perspective and includes in some parts both ESS and Max IV as well as the knowledge environment created around these two facilities. Many actors have already taken various initiatives, and the government obviously wants to support them with this letter. The strategy is based on the overall research policy objective that Sweden should be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation. The strategy should also have a flexibility to adapt to rapid changes in the world around it. Therefore, it is not timed but should be updated if necessary. A first such adjustment will take place once the operational phase of the ESS has started. Of course, regular follow-up will also be carried out so that the government and relevant stakeholders will get a picture of how the development is progressing and can make adjustments to the efforts. Areas mentioned in the strategy include, for example, the level of knowledge and competence, meeting place and coordination. It also hopes that the two research environments will contribute to an increased interest in science and technology. The letter also expresses hopes that there is now a crucial opportunity to establish an internationally leading centre for materials and life sciences and to create an arena for breakthrough research and that it is of great importance that the two facilities develop well, so that researchers and companies choose to locate their activities there. The letter also states that the government will work to facilitate the mobility and recruitment of skilled personnel to the ESS by creating attractive conditions for foreign workers. In good time before each research policy proposal, the government intends to produce an overall report on the current status of national coordination using the ESS Office proposed in the letter and the Strategic Council. Finally, Madam President, the ESS is today one of the largest and most high-priority research infrastructure projects in Europe and will become the most powerful facility in the world of its kind. On the occasion of a state visit from Italy, together with Minister for Research Helene Hellmark Knutsson, we also saw that the young person chose to visit the facility and showcase it. It is very exciting that we as a country are host nation for this project. I do not think anyone needs to doubt that, regardless of the color of government and composition in this House, we will do our utmost to ensure that the effort is as good as it can only be and also attract the most excellent scientists from all over the world here. In doing so, I propose that the letter be added to the file.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-482	Madam President, I would like ESS is an extremely important research effort with great potential benefits for both Sweden and Skåne. Walking around facilities such as ESS and neighbor Max IV is almost like wandering around a cathedral of science, where groundbreaking research and perhaps even Nobel Prizes will be created in the future. I can certainly recommend a visit to Lund to do just that. The fact that the government has now developed a strategy to make full use of the possibilities of ESS is very positive. I and the Center Party share the view that a common vision and national goals are needed to create good conditions for stakeholders to feel responsible and committed, see the opportunities offered by the facilities and drive development forward. The fact that there is a clear ambition from the government to secure collaboration with the Swedish universities to build up the country's competence in this area is particularly important in this context, and it is estimated that the government on this point is clear. On the other hand, the strategy lacks a regional link and a full understanding of the cooperation across Europe. How, for example, will Sweden do to strengthen cooperation between Denmark and Sweden when international researchers will in practice sit in Denmark large parts of the time they are here? Let us begin with the Danish relationship, as it were. The strategy states that cooperation between Sweden and Denmark will be strengthened and developed. It also says that Sweden and Denmark should have forward-looking cooperation to develop European support for the use of ESS, and that is very positive and good. But there is no mention of how the government actually intends to achieve, for example, better cooperation with Denmark. It is also not clear from the points that the government has described that it should work for. This is problematic. In recent years, the government has hindered cooperation over S undet rather than built it up. There would have been a need for an idea of what is actually needed to develop the collaboration and to ensure that the researchers who will sit and process data in Denmark also have a continuous link to Sweden and the research here. This can be about opportunities for research and housing, but also about, for example, tax policy, which other speakers have already discussed, because we need to ensure good opportunities for the recruitment of international researchers who come here to use the ESS. Even in relation to the regional level in Skåne, there is no clear idea of cooperation. The strategy states that the national strategy takes a broad perspective and includes in some parts both ESS and Max IV as well as the knowledge environment established around these facilities. But there is nothing about how to cooperate with different actors in Skåne to actually achieve this, and that is a problem. Not including the regional perspective means that the strategy really lacks the broad perspective it claims to want to achieve. Not including the cross-border perspective also means that the government actually only looks at half of the knowledge environment that will actually be created around the facilities. The Center Party welcomes the strategy, but would also like to emphasise that there is a lack of perspective in order to be comprehensive. I and the Center Party hope and expect the government to take these perspectives with us in the further work and gladly develop the dialogue with stakeholders both in Skåne and in Denmark. The government can also develop ideas on how to develop cross-border regional cooperation in the research policy bill.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-490	Madam President, I would like The national strategy for Sweden's work with ESS is important for us as a nation to benefit from the facility being located in Sweden. The Left Party agrees with the strategy we now have on our table. But we also need to look beyond the strategy. 4 000 – 5 000 researchers and guest researchers are expected to work or use Max IV and ESS. The development of ESS places great demands on the surrounding society in the form of housing, schools and other infrastructure. In the strategy we can read, among other things, that Science Village Scandinavia will develop into an area with international and national brilliance, which can attract actors from universities and colleges, business and society as well as other countries. But there is no mention of the infrastructure needed for such a society to function. Children need schools and leisure activities, public transport needs to be expanded and so on. We know that the surrounding society plays a major role in whether you enjoy and stay or if you quickly choose to move on. For the Left Party, it is desirable that those who come here to research also participate in society and are willing to stay. It would be unfortunate if Science Village Scandinavia became a closed enclave. The goal for world-leading research and the surrounding society to meet is good, but how do we get there? It is not something that is addressed in the strategy and may not do so, but it places great demands on Region Skåne, Lund Municipality and Lund University. The strategy lacks links with these key actors. The strategy mentions that the government should work to facilitate the mobility and recruitment of skilled personnel to the ESS, by creating attractive conditions for foreign workers. Here I hope that the government or the authority that the government will work for will look beyond just ESS and contribute to the development of the surrounding society. Madam President, I would like One of the objectives of the strategy is to increase interest in education in science and technology in Sweden. It mentions, among other things, information activities aimed at schools and that the relevant authorities should take stock of the needs and allocation of funds for the development of the skills of teachers, which through ESS and Max IV should be able to stimulate interest in science and technology in primary and secondary schools. That is, of course, a great objective and strategy, but the gender perspective is lacking. An important part must, of course, be to encourage more girls to choose technology and to ensure that natural and technological education is equal. We also know that the distribution of research funding is not equal. Men receive a higher proportion of research funding, and men have easier than women to pursue careers in the research and higher education world. The proportion of women among the country's professors is 27 per cent, according to the latest statistics. But at Chalmers, for example, the proportion of women is as low as 14 per cent and at KTH 17 per cent. The statistics clearly show that Swedish research and Swedish universities are not equal. The ESS facility must therefore actively contribute to an equal research environment and that women are given the opportunity to take a greater and more active part in international research. At ESS, researchers will be able to study different types of materials, from plastics and proteins to medicines and batteries, to understand how they are constructed and work. Here I quoted Lund University. Research at ESS will not only move within pure technology and science. ESS can also contribute to future research breakthroughs in medicine, environmental science, climate, communication and transport. We need to use the facility and focus a large part of our research on making our society more sustainable and without fossil dependence. It is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The Government has announced several areas of development and that the strategy will be followed, as necessary, by missions to the relevant authorities in order to achieve the objectives of the strategy. The strategy will also be evaluated and adjusted. That is why, Madam President, I support the letter and its intentions and return to the issues I have raised in my speech when the ESS enters a sharper position.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-502	Madam President, I would like More, more quickly, better – we can probably sum up the opposition's criticism when the parties in general agree on the substance. Of course, one can always wish for more, faster and better proposals, but in conclusion, one can say that the national strategy for ESS and the surrounding knowledge environment has gained broad approval in the Education Committee. Gunilla Svantorp has very well explained the content of the report and the strategy, so I will not go into the details. Instead, I will focus on responding to some of the recordings that have come from the Moderates, the Center Party and the Left Party. It is very gratifying that the Moderates highlight the need to facilitate visa processes and generally want to open up for international students and researchers to work in Sweden. If we make it easy for people who want to come here and contribute to an international knowledge environment, they will choose Sweden, and more of those who choose Sweden will want to stay here unless they are faced with a long and uncertain bureaucratic process without smooth structures and friendly treatment. The Green Party wants to protect and develop the open rules for labour immigration that we were involved in introducing together with the Moderates, among others. Several have raised the need to involve the surrounding region in this collaboration, and I very much share that view and assume that it also happens. I assume that Lund and several surrounding municipalities are actively engaged in ensuring that there will be attractive living environments for those who will work and work at ESS and Max IV. I agree with what the Left Party said about the need to continue to monitor gender issues in these areas. This has permeated the education and research policy pursued by the feminist government. I also share the view that there is no need for reservations or additional additions in this particular product, but that this is a very important perspective. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-509	Madam President, I would like Already when the housing allowance was introduced in its current form in the 1990s, there were concerns that many would become repayable, and the fact is that this has indeed been the case. The housing allowance is so tight that many who are entitled to apply for it probably refrain from paying back money. Housing allowance is provided mainly to families with children with low economic standards to prevent overcrowding and unacceptable housing conditions. Nevertheless, today one third of all beneficiaries are liable for repayment, and those most affected by recovery fall within the group with the lowest economic standard. Reclaims can in many cases correspond to a large part of the money a family moves on in a month, and this means that many of those who are liable for repayment cannot pay back. A study by Försäkringskassan shows that up to two thirds of the recoveries in 2013 were not paid in time and thus converted into liabilities. Reclaims for housing allowance have increased sharply, from approximately SEK 650 million in 2006 to SEK 3.4 billion in 2014, and the whole purpose of the benefit, to create equal conditions for children, is threatened by this. Instead, children risk seeing their parents in debt and poor. Basically, this is due to the fact that the grant has deteriorated significantly over time. Housing allowance has not followed the general salary trend in the last 20 years. This means that the benefit is eroded every year and that fewer and fewer people can use it. Last parliamentary term, the Left Party managed to push up the income limits a bit for this contribution, but it could not make up for 20 years' lag. I fully agree with the government's assessment that debt can worsen mental and physical ill-health, which also affects relatives, not least children. Since the income limits have not been raised more under either Social Democratic or bourgeois governments, this ill-health affects them with the smallest margins in our society as a whole. I believe that this is unfair because we are not putting the same pressure on, for example, those who are subsidised by deductions. We spend SEK 4 billion on housing allowance, but in 2015 we spent SEK 20 billion on another type of housing allowance that only goes to those who have sufficient income, namely the so-called ROT deduction. It is a contribution to households with sufficient resources to be able to do expensive renovations. The interest deduction is another type of housing allowance that, contrary to what we imagine grants to aim for, increases in line with the household's wealth. Furthermore, the RUT deduction is a housing allowance which can in principle only be used by families who own a lot of money. Thus, the wealthier households who can afford to make much more of a contribution than those who would actually need it most. In addition, households using RUT and ROT grants, for example, are very rarely in danger of being liable for repayment, unless they have cheated, although they have much greater margins and use up to perhaps ten times more of state resources. This is a policy that subsidises people who do not really need it and pushes and weakens families who really need economic peace and quiet. I mean it's unreasonable. If, by today's standards, families and single people with very low incomes become reimbursable, confidence in social security will decrease in the long run. It is possible and good that the administration of the housing allowance should be changed and that continuous monitoring of the application and payment of the allowance should be carried out in order to reduce the repayment and indebtedness of these families. In essence, however, it is vital that the income limits of the housing allowance are raised to more modern levels.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-522	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the government proposal. I particularly support our reservations in the committee's report. The proposal consists of two important elements, two important proposals. The first part is about modernising parental allowance by extending the concept of parenting and introducing the possibility of giving up parental allowance days also for the benefit of a common-law spouse, without any requirement for previous marriages or joint children. It is gratifying to see that there is a majority in the committee that welcomes this proposal, which also reflects today's modern family constellations. Not everyone is married who has children together, and many children live with a guardian and a new bonus parent. There are many bonus parents who can in practice be equated with a guardian when it comes to caring and caring for the child. It is therefore important to be able to transfer parenting days within the family to a person who lives with the child and who has a parenting role, even if they are not legal guardians. With this proposal, we want to make it visible that there are different family constellations and make it easier for all families. Madam President, I would like The second proposal is to reserve 90 days of parental insurance for each parent even at the basic level. This proposal is an important part of the gear to contribute to a more equal withdrawal and increase incentives to share parental benefit more equally between women and men. Of course, efforts need to be made in other areas too, such as continuing work on equal pay and a more flexible labour market in Sweden. This proposal is an additional element in increasing equality between women and men. I regret that the committee is proposing rejection in the section dealing with reserving the basic level days of parental allowance. We in the Social Democrats, together with V, MP and L, share the government's view that the proposal would increase the incentive to share parental benefit more equally between men and women. Madam President, I would like Sweden has generous parental insurance so that all parents can afford to be home full time when the children are young. Parental insurance and the Parental Leave Act make it possible to be free to take care of your children. For the Social Democrats, family policy is about all children getting a good start in life, developing and being able to realize their dreams. Sweden is one of the world's best countries for children to grow up in. This is not a coincidence. It is a consequence of hard work and political will. It is the result of progressive, equal and equalising family policies. A generous parental insurance and a well-developed high-quality preschool that meets today's needs, along with free maternity and child health care and general child benefit, have always been good, even for children. The bill is not only for the parents, it is also a bill for the children – for all children's right to a good start in life and for the right to both their parents, if both are in the picture. It is clear – we have all seen this – that gender equality is increasing through political will and that the steps we have seen in gender equality have come about through political courage. The same courage and political will are needed to further develop and modernise family policy today, not to make it more difficult by, for example, shortening parental leave or introducing a withdrawal day for the care of children, as some Moderates suggested in a debate article this weekend. It would hit low - income earners and single parents hard. Madam President, I would like It is important to continue to extend parental insurance so that it works for all family constellations, for the children's right to their parents but also for the parents' right to care for their children. In order to continue to increase gender equality, it is important that parental insurance is individualised by 90 days each – this is to smooth out the possibility for both parents to be at home with the child. We see today that more women than men are at home with children, during parental leave, but also at vabs when the child is sick. As a result, many women in practice receive lower pay, lower career opportunities and lower pensions than men. We cannot accept that. Therefore, it is important that we provide incentives that enable gender equality in practice. This inequality for women is striking differently, particularly hard on women who find it difficult to enter the labour market. Sweden is at the forefront when it comes to parental insurance, and we are a good example for many other countries. One of the reasons for this is that we dare to use the political instruments we have, and we are not afraid to modernise and monitor developments in society. Let us continue to be this very example, which stands up for the children's right to a fair, equal and good start in life. Every child has a right to do this.
i-AMmxmzvw11rz5WNHKPCYCu	Madam President, I would like As I said today, we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 11 on parental allowance for more family constellations and reserved basic level. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal under paragraph 1 of the report to reject the proposal in this part and for our reservation 2 to be approved under paragraph 2. In the report, we are dealing with a proposal from the previous government, which is now a transitional government, to reserve and impose quotas on parenting days at basic level to the respective parent. The report also deals with a proposal to simplify the regulatory framework in order to transfer parenting days to cohabiting couples. Madam President, I would like For a prosperous society, the Swedish Democrats believe that healthy families are a basic prerequisite. For many parents of young children, everyday life and life puzzles can sometimes be tough. I'm the mother of three fully aware. We politicians need to support families, with children's best interests at the centre, and not destroy and cause problems for families' everyday lives. With the proposal put on the table by the Red-Green Government, it is clear once again that they do not have the interests of the family and children in mind. I look with great concern at the continued attempts of the Red-Greens, with the help of the Liberals, to forcefully undermine the ability of families with children to shape their everyday lives on the basis of their own unique needs and those of their children. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that in the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Centers here today we are putting an end to this proposal for additional quotas. In fact, it is a bit of extra fun that these particular parties have a common understanding, given the complicated parliamentary situation in Parliament. I am also pleased that the report approves requests in motions from both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. The central starting point for the Swedish Democrats' family policy is that the best interests of children should be taken into account in all situations in the area of family policy. All too often, I mean, family policy objectives have an adult perspective. The Social Democrats all too often describe family formation and children as a barrier to gender equality. All too often we hear that children are described as women's traps, just like spending time with your own children would be a punishment. Of course, women and men must be given the best possible conditions to combine work and career with family formation, but that is not the way to do this by coercion and to speak derogatoryly of family life while working life is to be raised to the skies. Instead, the status of taking responsibility for your children should be strengthened. This can also strengthen gender equality. Each family has different conditions, and each child is unique. Some children want to breast - feed for a long time — up to one year — others shorter, while some do not breast - feed at all. Some parents have a work situation where parental leave is straightforward and for others it is more complicated, as in self-employment. There are an infinite number of factors that vary from family to family and from children to children. We in the Swedish Democrats want to give the best conditions for each family to shape their everyday lives. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats are against any quota in parental insurance. On the other hand, we are in favour of shared parental responsibility and believe that it is most desirable. But it should not be done through mandatory systems. That is why, as I said, I support the committee's proposal to reject the proposal in this part. Madam President, I would like The Government also proposes in the bill that a parent's common-law spouse can be treated as a parent when applying the provisions on parental benefit benefits, even if the parent and common-law spouse have not been married to each other or have not had or have not had children in common. Furthermore, it is proposed that a parent's common-law spouse be entitled to leave from work in these cases. We from the Swedish Democrats welcome any proposal that we believe can improve a child's life and under light family puzzles. In these changes, it is always important to focus on the best interests of children. Of course, for some families it can make life easier if a common - law spouse is given the opportunity to take parental leave instead of the parent, even in cases where they have not been married or have children in common. I understand that. However, we believe that this may affect very young children and that the starting point should be that parents who are also guardians and have a permanent relationship with the child in question should primarily be those who are offered and distribute the unreserved parental days among themselves and that these days should, in the second place, be offered to cohabitors who can then be treated by law as a parent. According to the government's proposal as it stands now, a guardian can give away his or her own unqualified days to his or her common-law spouse without the child's other guardians, who are the parent of the child and may both want and may be at home, being offered these days. So these days can be given away against the will of the other guardian. We want, of course, in this context too, to give as much freedom of action as possible to the parents, but we want to make sure that small children do not become a pawn that gets caught in separation. Therefore, we believe that in cases where a guardian intends to waive days, these days should primarily be offered to the other guardian. In cases where the guardian offered days declines, it shall be up to the other guardian to transfer days to a common-law spouse who can by law be treated as a parent. In cases where there is only one guardian, we have absolutely no problem with you deciding how much or how little you want to give away to your common-law spouse. I would like to conclude by saying that in family policy it is important that we create the best possible conditions for a working everyday life for families with as much flexibility as possible as long as we always have the best interests of the children in focus.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-547	Madam President, I would like We are now debating a number of improvements in parental insurance. Today, a parent can give up days of parental benefit for the benefit of his or her common-law spouse only in cases where he or she has previously been married or has children together. If one does not meet any of these criteria, a parent's common-law spouse cannot receive parental benefit. I believe that it is an old-fashioned regulatory framework that needs to be modernised and is therefore in favour of the government's proposal to change this, so that cohabiting couples also have the right to parental benefit. It will be important for a number of families. Now more adults can take on parental responsibility, and the adults around the child can better participate in the child's upbringing. It is good that there is also an adaptation in the Parental Leave Act. The bill proposes that the reserved days for each parent should also refer to parental benefit at basic level. We think it is a reasonable modernisation of the regulatory framework that even certain periods of parental benefit at basic level are reserved. This would make it easier to argue at home that the responsibility for home and children is a responsibility that needs to be shared between the people in the household. We know that the tradition otherwise decrees that women take care of children, homes, cleaning and packing of gym bags. I believe that these are tasks that need to be re-evaluated and shared. We know that men are also fully capable of changing diapers and cleaning both toilets and halls. We know that the uneven take-up of parental allowance even later in life lays the foundation for men and women not doing as much domestic work in the form of washing and cleaning and not having the same relationship with their children. Still in 2018, Dad is far down on the list of people that children go to for comfort. When the paper KP asked the children who to go to for comfort when they were sad, the alternative was to get no comfort from anyone before going to Dad for comfort. Mother, of course, was in first place. A more equal distribution of parental benefit would increase children's access and trust in both their parents. In this way, both parents have the same opportunity to have a job that provides good income for both, and everyone in the family can do better in life for the child's upbringing. We know that unequal collection of parental allowance means that women's income falls behind and that expectations in the labour market are such that mothers and not fathers will have to spend a lot of time at home for a certain number of years. Unfortunately, this affects the entire wage setting in the labour market. I believe that it is not reasonable for women pensioners to become poor or for many women to risk having their lives restricted because we have politically constructed a compensation system that constantly locks new families into conservative and old-fashioned traditions that leads to women being the ones who stand out when the children have flown out or when the divorce takes place and creates a signal that men would not be able to manage to take care of the children. The government's modernisation of parental allowance is small, but it is moving in the right direction. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-553	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask why the Left Party and Nooshi Dadgostar want to make it more difficult for families to shape their own everyday lives. Every child is unique. Each child's needs can be unique, such as how long you need to nurse or what care suits the child best. The financial situation of each family can also be very unique. It is precisely a quota that can cause financial damage to a family. We feel that each family must be able to decide for itself how it wants to distribute the days. I believe that both women and men are perfectly capable of making conscious decisions. Although it may have financial consequences in the long term, parents must surely be grown up enough to be able to make these decisions themselves. Why should politicians in the Left Party, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Liberals decide how parents distribute their days and not their parents themselves?
i-12529ee09ff093f8-554	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Julia for the question. All our compensation systems are publicly funded and governed by a number of regulations. This applies to sickness benefit, unemployment benefit and all types of benefits. All these compensation schemes are linked to the individual. This is therefore nothing new. We now only equate the basic level of benefit with the level of sickness benefit. The generation of girls who may be my age or the age of Julia Kronlid has fought hard in school. These girls get much better grades than the boys in the same class. They're fighting hard. A lot of them go to college. When they get to work, they get the same salary as their male colleagues. But in her 30s, women suddenly lose their pay. They simply get much less money in their wallets. This applies both to those who choose to have children, because parental insurance is not individualised and makes women at home more often, and to those who choose not to have children, because we create expectations in the whole labour market that women do not have any wage development over a certain number of years. This, in turn, means that we have women who are poor pensioners who receive, on average, 70% of what men receive under their pension. I believe that this is an injustice that we must change politically. It is not easy to make such decisions when it is so unequal also between women's and men's wages, which in turn depends on this. To begin with: Change the wage structure, and then you can see what happens.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-558	Madam President, I would like Of course, we agree that we should change the wage structure. Women and men shall receive equal pay for the same work. That's where we're in complete agreement. But I do not think that imposing quotas, that we politicians should decide how families best allocate parenting days, is the best way to go. If we are to do something in this regard, perhaps it is to strengthen parental insurance, to make financial losses when you are at home as small as possible, and to look at how the consequences can be as small as possible for pension provision. There are other ways to look at this than just meddling in how families themselves distribute parental insurance. I think that unlike other forms of benefits such as sickness benefit and sickness benefit, we need to focus on the child here, and we also need to be able to look at the family as a whole. I think that is a difference between this contribution and other contributions. It sounded a little bit in Nooshi Dadgostar's speech that we would like to force women to be at home if we do not have quotas for parental insurance, but it is rather the opposite. We want to increase freedom. A woman who is self-employed may find it very difficult to be at home but can solve it together with her husband and various flexible solutions so that she can return to work even earlier. We want to make it even more flexible both for the man and for the woman. But this 90-day quota makes it difficult. It is still perfectly possible for women to return to work whenever they wish. We do not want to make it more difficult, but we want to make it even more flexible. It is the Left Party that wants to make it even more inflexible.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-561	Madam President, I would like It's because we look after the child's best interests, the child's right to both his parents, that we want to do this. I believe in men, unlike Julia Kronlid. I am absolutely sure that men can take care of their own children, and we expect men who have children to be able to take care of them as well. I believe that this is about values and that it is conservative values that govern the position of Sweden's democrats when it comes to never changing anything that has existed in the past. We need to modernise society. We need to see that women and men are equal. Then we cannot remain in the idea that when women retire, they should only receive 70% of what men retire. How can they ever choose to separate themselves from their husband, for example, if they receive such low pensions because of homework and child care again and again – even if it is a private decision in each family – because we have constructed the whole system of expectations even in the labour market that it is women who should do this? Workplaces are also organised in such a way that women will go down part-time for several years when the child is small, while men, on the contrary, work more when they have young children. There's something wrong with this, I mean. Caring for children is a very important occupation, and we expect both women and men to do this. We want to ensure that the living income of women is not about 4 million less than that of men. It should be just the same size, because women struggle and work at least as much. They're worth more money in the wallet.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-564	Madam President, I would like The family is society's most important community and building block. It is in the family that undemanding love along with loving demands fosters children and young people to responsible adults. It is in the family that we lay the foundation for a safe society. That is why parental insurance is fantastic, and we Christian Democrats believe it is one of the most important parts of Swedish welfare. It is fantastic because it increases the children's right to a calm and safe start in life and represents a chance to build a good connection with the most important people in the child's life, namely the parents. Developing a secure relationship between parent and child takes time and must take time. Through parental insurance, parents can invest that time without excessive financial pressure and stress. Unfortunately, many politicians want to use parental insurance as the state's mercenary box to build two exactly the same towers: one for the mother and one for the father. Instead of putting the child's best interests at the centre, parental insurance has become a tool for forced quotas. But the price of the quota can be high. Children of parents who, for various reasons, cannot take their earmarked days would have less time at home and, instead, long days at preschool. This is despite the fact that the other parent might like to be at home with the child. The dismissed S- and MP-government proposes that the parent's days at basic level should be quotad in line with the other days at another level of remuneration. We Christian Democrats are opposed to this proposal because it restricts parents' ability to decide for themselves on the basis of what is best for their particular family. It is of course pleasing to us that the committee has landed in the same position as us, but we want to go further. We are opposed to any quota. We Christian Democrats want a completely free parental insurance where all the power lies with the mother and the father. Madam President, I would like Of course, we Christian Democrats want more fathers to spend more time at home with their children than is happening today. That would be a win both for the fathers and for the children. But that decision must be made by the parents themselves on the basis of the life situation in which they find themselves here and now. There are mothers who want to be at home with their children for as long as possible, just as there are fathers who want the same thing. For other parents, it's best to share equally, because that's what they want. That's the thing. Each family is unique, with its own wishes, needs and conditions. We Christian Democrats do not believe in quotaing and setting a target for all families to fit into the same template. No, politics must know its limits. By what right can we politicians reject the desire of mothers and fathers to decide for themselves what is best for their family? We should not regulate people's everyday lives in detail. So on this issue, we completely surrender to the parents'own ability to make wise decisions at home at the kitchen table. The Christian Democrats' call for quotas is to start listening to the parents. Most people want the power of politics to stay outside the front door of the home. Madam President, I would like Earlier this year, a Sifo survey showed that 76 per cent of respondents answered that parents should be allowed to decide for themselves whether the parents or the Riksdag should decide how to take out parental insurance. Among LO members, the share was as high as 80 per cent. It is clear that not least the Social Democrats are out of step with their voters when they want to take more power from their parents and instead give it to us politicians in parliament. What we politicians are supposed to do, however, is increase parents' ability to spend time with their children, strengthen families' finances and create better conditions to combine family life with work and career. Here we have Christian Democrats' proposals. Let me mention a few. The popular so-called double days, i.e. the days when mothers and fathers can take parental leave together, is a Christian Democratic initiative that has contributed to more fathers being at home with children. Today you can take a maximum of 30 double days. We want every day to be double-days if the parents so wish. We also want sickness benefit and parental benefit-based income to be protected for three years. We want to strengthen the pension rights for children's years and introduce an automatic share premium pension for parents. This would, above all, strengthen women's pension. We also want to reduce the tax on parents and increase child-related housing allowance. As I have said before, we want to increase flexibility in parental insurance. We therefore welcome the proposal to allow parents to transfer their parental allowance days to a common-law spouse, even if they have not been married before or have children together. It will make life easier for many different family constellations, such as same-sex or reconstituted families. However, we Christian Democrats want, once again, to go one step further. We want parents to be able to transfer days to other family members even if they do not live in the same household. It may be grandparents or adult siblings of the child. This would make everyday life easier, not least for single parents. I would like to say to all the mothers and fathers of the country: we Christian Democrats trust you. We trust that you yourselves know best how to distribute parenting days so that it will be good for your family. Madam President, I would like That is why we Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal in paragraph 1, as it approves the KD's motion. I also support our reservation in paragraph 2.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-584	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more modern parental insurance. Today, many children grow up in star families, with adults in many different constellations. Unfortunately, current legislation is still largely adapted to the traditional nuclear family. The law should be adapted to the families of reality, not the other way around. One step is taken in this bill by making it easier for cohabiting couples to take parental leave. The Green Party would also like to open the door for children to have more than two guardians. We want to open the way for the number of double days to be increased and for parts of parental insurance to be transferred to other related adults. Another improvement in this area, which has already been achieved, is that single people can now also be inseminated in health care. The bill proposes that a parent's common-law spouse can be treated as a parent for the purpose of parental benefit, even if the parent and the common-law spouse have not previously been married to each other or have children together. So Sambon may still be entitled to parental leave. In addition, it is proposed that parental days at basic level should be included in the reserved time and not transferable. This is opposed to a majority in the Social Security Committee. That is why I would like to support reservation 1. It would be a step forward for equality if a certain amount of parental benefit at basic level were also reserved. This increases the incentive to share parental benefit more equally between men and women. It is important for gender equality in the labour market, for children's living conditions and for children's ability to connect with parents.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-590	Madam President, I would like There has been a lot of talk about gender equality here today – rightly so. It's important. However, we agree that equality is important, it is the view and confidence in man's self-power in relation to the overbelief in the excellence of systems that separates us. Madam President, I would like According to the facts, people live longer in equal countries. Equal companies have better profitability and higher employee satisfaction. Gender equality makes us happier and healthier. In addition, equal parliaments are a good guarantor of a nation's peace-keeping. It is therefore a very good idea to always be curious about, to continue discussing and never to stop questioning the development of gender equality as a future issue. Gender equality is a word that is unique to Sweden as it refers to equality between women and men. Equality means that it should be equal for everyone. You have to have the same rights, the same obligations and the same opportunities, no matter who you are. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. But it hasn't just come to us. Generations before us have fought for it to be this way. Well-developed childcare facilities, accessible preschools, abolished co-taxation, the introduction of parental insurance and anti-discrimination laws have all been reforms that have done good for gender equality. Common to these reforms is that they have opened up the labour market to women. Swedish women today work to a large extent during early childhood years. Work is the cornerstone of an equal society where you enjoy equal freedom and have equal control over your common daily life. The Alliance government was successful in its gender equality work with reforms that further contributed to economic equality. Continuing to increase the will and drive to work is the right way forward. Continued reductions in taxes on those with the lowest incomes will strengthen women's economy. Modern parental insurance with focused economic algorithms will strengthen economic equality and close the women's traps that our now retired mothers have ended up in. We Moderates welcome the flexibility proposed by the government. We welcome the fact that a parent's common-law spouse can receive parental benefit and be on parental leave without the requirement of marriage or common child. We wholeheartedly support the extension of the circle of parents' benefits. Laws and rules must abide by the present and must be constantly modernised. Today's family constellations look different from when the law came into existence. On the other hand, the basic need for closeness, security and cohesion of children in the first fragile years has not changed at all and obviously needs to continue to be protected. This is a step in the right direction. Madam President, I would like Real equality is about people's freedom and our inherent self-power. Therefore, the state should not seize people's right of self-determination over the family's own time. That is why we should not use coercion and quotas. Instead, we should give people equal rights, equal obligations and equal opportunities. Parental insurance should allow room for the family's own free choice and for time together. It is therefore right to reject the part of the proposal relating to the increase in the number of days reserved per parent in parental insurance, in full accordance with the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask that the same be accepted and that the reservations be rejected.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-600	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen when the Moderates related history development and how our predecessors have fought for these rights and introduced the improvements that we have today. I very much regret that the Moderates do not want to approve the proposal in the bill to reserve the basic level days. We believe that this is the right direction to go in order to increase equality. The honourable Member was concerned that gender equality and equality should increase. I have a question. That is why I asked for a reply to Ann-Sofie Alm's speech. Sometimes I get confused about the Moderates' position on these issues. Two years ago, the Moderate women talked about introducing more father-months. This weekend some Moderates wrote in a debate article in the DN that they want to shorten parental insurance and introduce a Karen's Day at vab, care of children. And here in this House we hear that we are in favour of equality and that we want parents to decide for themselves. All that is heard from different quarters within the Moderates creates confusion. Who are we to believe and trust? Is it the Moderates of Parliament, the Moderates of the Women's League or the Moderates of the Youth League? Do you agree with the proposals made by the Moderate Youth League to introduce a Karen's Day and shorten parental insurance?
i-G1okq8iFHwJukn8vzoDGTh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Kadir, for the question. It is surprising that the Social Democratic Party is today talking about how to stand up as a party to the game of a youth federation. I am thinking not least of what is happening in Malmö, for example. The Moderates have not discussed the proposals presented by individual representatives of the Moderate Youth League and the Moderate Women together with an investigator in a newspaper article. To me, this sounds rather strange. But, as I said, everything is worth discussing. When Mr Kadir asked me his question, he began by saying that I had an interesting introduction to my speech. This is a typical example of how to see the Social Democrats putting the excellence of the state before the belief in man's inherent power to be able to decide his own life and to take responsibility for his own actions. There's a clear dividing line there. I believe in man. I think parents make the absolute best choice they can for their child, and I don't think the government should interfere with it.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-609	Madam President, I would like When it comes to believing in man, the Social Democrats absolutely also believe in people's ability to decide. Throughout history, the labour movement has fought for many of the rights that we have today and that we use. But we also see how equality and equality are enhanced by the political decisions that are made. When we have political instruments at our disposal and we politicians do not show the ability to use them to increase equality, we surrender to the challenges that exist. We believe that it is possible to increase equality and equality by using political instruments. This does not mean that the state interferes with the family's business. It is not about that; it is about women and men having an equal outlet and living on an equal footing in reality, not just on paper.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-612	Madam President, I would like I believe that women's position is best strengthened by an equal labour market. Let families decide their own daily lives! Let them decide how to care for their children! I think you'll be more satisfied, happier and more powerful as a human being if you can do it. I also believe that there are many alternative ways and concrete reforms to achieve genuine equality. It is about economic equality, among other things. For example, women's career opportunities can be expanded. More job tax deductions can bring more people to work. You can get more and more RUT deductions to enable more jobs. And you can really throw Reepalus's investigation and everything in the trash. There we definitely have something that shuts women out of the labour market. Finally, we should not poke in parental insurance by quotaing what people want. That's the wrong way to go. We need more flexibility.
i-12529ee09ff093f8-615	Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating deals with parental allowance for more family constellations. It's very good, because children need to feel safe with more adults around them. It's good for the kids. They should not be associated with just some of those close to the children. If you live with someone in whole or in part, it is important to be able to feel that they take similar responsibility. This is precisely the idea of being able to share parental benefit with more adults in the child's vicinity. This is not only good for the children. Or what? Yes, it is. If adults feel safe and have flexibility and opportunities in their everyday lives, it also makes them safe. It's always the best thing for the kids to think about. On the other hand, the Center Party is opposed to quotas for guarantee days. You should not quota and decide how parents should take parenting days at basic level. We are strongly opposed to that. That is why we support what the Moderates, among other things, have written in their motion. This is also stated in our special opinion. I would like to make this clear. One might wonder how equality can be achieved without quotas. Of course, we do so through positive carrots for the parents. That is why it is important to have a gender equality bonus so that you do not lose anything economically. This is something that the previous government and the present temporary government have been against a great deal. The gender equality bonus introduced by the Alliance Government was removed. The government has changed a lot in parental insurance in recent years. This has meant that parents find it difficult to understand the rules that apply and what to comply with. Among other things, changes have been made regarding when and how to take out your days. If the child is born before or after 2014, different parts apply. If you are going to take out vab days, you have to do so in different ways depending on whether the regular guardian at home is sick or not. You can save a certain number of days until the child is eight years old or until it is twelve years old. So a lot has changed. In addition, during the last term of office, a further month has been allocated. I would therefore like to point out once again how incredibly important it is for us to review parental insurance and fundamentally change it in order to make it easier for parents to have an equal working life and, on equal terms, to take responsibility for their children. Today it is impossible to do so in an easy way, as we in the Center Party see it. It cannot be foreseen what parenthood will look like, because it changes. That is why the Center Party proposed a parliamentary inquiry into parental insurance. But the previous government has not agreed to that. Instead, parental leave has been patched and repaired, changed and complicated in the best way possible in the interests of the family and the child. An investigation was set up which left the report Equal parenthood and good growing-up conditions for children – a new model for parental insurance. That's what we're getting a little bit of today. We have had small parts recently, and there will be more, says the committee's report. I would like to stress once again that it is important that we have a parliamentary parental insurance investigation that fundamentally reviews and simplifies parental insurance for the parents and others who are close to the child and for the benefit of the child. As I said, I would therefore like to support the sharing of parental leave with several other adults in the vicinity and the rejection of quotas for the guarantee days.
