i-K1c3qgLxVEtT7ZGa2MKFeL	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Social Security Committee's report 2018/ 19:SfU1 Area of expenditure 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. I would like to start by saying that we Social Democrats choose to refrain from taking a position on Category 10. We give our views in a separate opinion. Sweden is in a special situation. Never before has it been three months after an election without having a government in place. As a result of the Prime Minister's rejection, we received a transitional government that administers in accordance with the form of government. It cannot take political initiatives, it cannot resign and it cannot call new elections. However, it must submit a budget to Parliament within the specified time limit. In the case of a budget proposal submitted by a transitional government, it is stated that it should not contain proposals with a party political orientation. It follows from the form of government that the last budget to be adopted shall continue to apply in the event that Parliament does not decide on a new budget. In preparing the bill, the Government has therefore assessed that the 2019 budget should be drawn up on the basis of the 2018 budget, pending the entry into force of a new government and able to submit the proposals for changes that follow its political orientation. Taking this into account, specific principles have been developed for the formulation of the bill. The principles have been developed following contacts with the government parties and the Left Party as well as the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. A transitional budget is not a permanent solution and it does not address the major societal problems of new reforms. Madam President, I would like Everyone who can work, but when you can't, there should be security systems that catch up. We Social Democrats want health insurance that means that those who are ill and unable to work should have the right to rapid rehabilitation back to work and financial security during the time this takes. Safe insurance is a predictable insurance policy. You have to understand what's happening and how to get back. This is not the case for everyone today, and this is not acceptable. The government has identified several parts where the work needs to be developed for a health insurance that provides both security and support. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to review health insurance, including in relation to normal work. There is no precise definition of which jobs are normally available. Special reasons for assessing work capacity should also be reviewed. The study will also analyse how health insurance regulations relate to today's labour market. The investigation will submit an interim report in January 2019. At the same time, the government has decided on a new function: a national coordinator for health insurance, who will start from the individual's journey through health insurance so that it is seriously put at the centre. A safe and well-functioning health insurance is a basic bolt in the Swedish model. One challenge is to ensure that the authorities cooperate sufficiently in their work to provide people with the support they need. There I am concerned about the large reduction in the budget allocated to the Public Employment Service by the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats in their draft budget. Who's going to take the role of A rebetsförmedlingen? Arbetsförmedlingen is an important player in getting people back to work. But we will hopefully have an answer to that in today's debate.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-9	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are today debating Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. As our own budget for the field of expenditure exceeds the framework now adopted, we have no reservation in the report, but we refer to our specific opinion. Madam President, I would like Living and working in Sweden and then paying a high tax should mean a form of community contract where you should know that you get a refund of the tax you pay when the need arises, for example in the form of disease. Today, unfortunately, many – far too many – feel betrayed by this social contract. People who have kept their part of the agreement and paid taxes for many years feel that the state is betraying them and not keeping their part of the agreement when put into an unsustainable and difficult situation. My criticism here is mainly directed at the policies that have been in place in this area in recent years. What is particularly worrying today is the increase in mental illness in Sweden. Mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave today. It is an area in which we need to take a holistic approach. The increase in people with fatigue syndrome, for example, I see as a symptom that many things are not right in our society today, where women in particular are often affected, and gunpowder must be put into preventive work. However, when exhaustion or other forms of mental illness become a reality, there is a great need for improvement in the treatment, knowledge and strengthening of skills throughout the rehabilitation chain. This is something on which we want to invest resources in our budget. Many feel ill treated as their individual situation does not fit into a rigid system primarily made for physical diagnoses. Among other things, I have read about the mother of four children with asperger and at times other diagnoses, who have always felt ill-treated and discriminated against and who have not got an understanding of their situation. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats look with concern at the observations presented by the Swedish National Audit Office in their review report Assessment of work capacity in the event of mental illness – a process with major challenges. The design of the sick leave process and the bases on which sick doctors are based are obviously not adapted for mental disorders, which unfortunately are becoming increasingly common. According to the report, the assessment of work capacity in the case of mental illness in these cases is so poor that there is a risk that the regulatory framework for health insurance is simply not legally secure, which we believe needs to be addressed as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like However, it is not only those with mental health problems who find it difficult to understand the decisions on out-of-life insurance that are being made today. I have also read about a person who worked in the manufacturing industry and seriously injured his back. The person saddled to security. When it did not work, this person once again saddled to technicians. Despite this, injuries worsened, resulting in sick leave. After this, the person was referred back to the guarding profession, which apparently did not work, and then to work as a train host, even though the trade union felt that this profession was inappropriate for anyone with these injuries. History ended unhappily. The person is now secure and homeless. Of course, I do not have all the insights and the whole background to this case and if the person in question might have been able to take another job on the labour market. However, a temporary form of sickness benefit with a slow return to adapted work according to physical ability should have been possible and a better solution than out-of-work and homelessness. All in all, we look with great concern at developments in health insurance, both during the previous and the current term of office. We are the party that spends the most resources for a more humane health insurance. We have been touched by many human fates where the sick have been caught. The starting point of the Swedish Democrats is that those who are ill should get the best possible rehabilitation and basic financial security. And if you are able to get well, you will have the best possible conditions and incentives to return to work. In order to create the conditions for this, we have a number of proposals in our draft budget and also in committee motions. Some proposals will be discussed later. First of all, we invest SEK 100 million in an improved sick leave process and a reinforced rehabilitation chain. We believe that with a strengthened rehabilitation chain, where the sick are helped to become healthy and healthy are helped to get to work, no more time limit is needed. The Swedish democrats will not work for the reintroduction of a more distant deadline according to the previous model that has existed. We therefore propose a reinforced rehabilitation chain with regular personal contact, reconciliation meetings and control stations involving both the individual, employer, health care and the Social Insurance Agency. In parallel with this, of course, major efforts need to be made to increase resources for Swedish healthcare. Madam President, I would like We also believe that the assessment to be made after day 180 of today's rehabilitation chain, when the insured person is tested against work throughout the labour market, is too rigid and does not take into account the individual's situation. At day 180 there have been many insurances lately. According to a report from the Social Security Inspection, the assessment at day 90 and day 180 is not of sufficient quality. In view of this, we propose that the government investigate the possibility of testing a broader labour market from day 180 than just its previous workplace, but only against professions within its own area of competence rather than against theoretical jobs throughout the labour market. This is something on which we are also investing resources in our budget. As mentioned earlier, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of rejections of applications for sickness benefit during the previous parliamentary term. The austerity of the Social Democratic Government has resulted in as many as eight out of ten being rejected on sick leave, which is a worrying development that we are critical of. Rejection can be a big blow to the face, where women are particularly hard hit. A person who has chronic pain and severely reduced work capacity, among other things, describes his/her situation as follows: I've applied for sick pay so many times, but I've been rejected. When the last hit came, I broke down. Everything went black. If you avoided the financial stress and didn't struggle every day in contacts with Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, you might not get healthier, but you would feel mentally better. I can't even hear about Försäkringskassan anymore, or about Strandhäll and the Social Democrats. I feel tired and indifferent. Madam President, I would like Instead, the Swedish Democrats want to relax the regulatory framework, so that more people can benefit from sickness benefit, by introducing a new less permanent and temporary trace of sickness benefit where the control of work capacity can be reconsidered and the possibilities for health care and rehabilitation reviewed. We also want to strengthen the guarantee and increase the level by SEK 300 per month and strengthen the housing supplement by raising the ceiling to SEK 6 000 per month in order to increase financial security for the most vulnerable. We also have proposals to create positive incentives to return to work. We believe that when you return to wage work of up to 25 per cent you should be allowed to retain your full remuneration from Försäkringskassan in order to create positive carrots to try working life again. We also have a number of other proposals, but I am referring to our budget and to our committee motion, which you are happy to read. I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-28	Madam President, I would like Good morning! Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, Parliament decided on a different spending framework for this area from that desired by the Center Party, we will abstain from voting on this area. Instead, I refer to anyone interested in reading our budget exercise and party motion 2018/ 19:2610. It says everything about what we want in this area. However, the current budgetary exercise does not include all the reforms that Sweden really needs to reduce sick leave. That is why I intend to mention some reforms that the Center Party wants to pursue. Before I go into this, I must draw attention to what was said by the Social Democrats at the outset in the debate, namely that they want to review normal work. It is good that they come to insight, because it was one of the points they pushed through with noise and blunder here in Parliament a few years ago. In addition, they want to set up a new investigation into health insurance. We have had such a parliamentary inquiry whose proposals were in fact all in favour. It surprises me, therefore, that no more of the important reforms that the parliamentary inquiry came up with have been implemented. Then I would like to point out that I expect the Social Democrats to also look at a company-tailored security system for our entrepreneurs. It's important. It is our entrepreneurs who make sure that Sweden works. It is through companies that we get jobs. Companies are now in danger of not being able to take out health insurance, for example, and of not being able to use the benefits that they have been involved in financing. Some other proposals that the Center Party really thinks are important are to remove the exceptions that exist for refugees and also to ensure that we get sickness rates at an even level in Sweden when it comes to the greatest responsibility that we have for health insurance. Then, among other things, we need to give early action to enable people to return to work. There is a need for reconciliation meetings between the person who is on sick leave and the employer, Försäkringskassan and the doctor. We know that this is not working today. Only yesterday I spoke to a man named Bertil, who really showed the shortcomings in this area. That is why we in the Center Party believe that the responsibility for coordination must be laid down by law. We also want to shorten the first period of sick leave provided by doctors. It is important that we shorten everything that has to do with verifying that you are ill. We also want the return to work to be flexible in a completely different way from what is currently possible in health insurance. It's important. Women today account for a significant proportion of the sickness rate. We know that this has a strong connection with family formation and family formation patterns, and so the Center Party believes that the equality aspect of sick leave needs to be highlighted in a completely different way from today. We live in a dynamic world, Madam President, where our young people want to study and see opportunities in life. This is a good thing, and it is therefore important that the sickness benefit-based income is skipped for students. There is a group of people who live with disabilities, and they receive sickness benefit when they are older. It is extremely important to break the exclusion for them. We need to see far greater efforts from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to help them get into the labour market. They also do not benefit from joining the Employment Service, for then they get a significantly lower income. So there's no carrot there. When it comes to young people with activity benefits, they really need – and I would like to emphasise this – in every way to get help and support to be able to study and get work training and work trials. They must also be helped to find employment with benefits. In this context, it must also be mentioned that in occupational injury insurance there are inappropriate differences between women and men, where women draw the rivets. It does not have the same knowledge of the relationship between work and the injuries and diseases that occur in women-dominated occupations as it does in male-dominated occupations. That is why the Center Party believes that labour injury insurance should be gender-secured, so that women and men receive good protection on equal terms. It's time, in the 21st century Sweden. With this, Madam President, I would like to thank you for this semester. Furthermore, I would like to point out once again that we do not intend to take part in the vote in this area.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-40	Madam President, I would like What I think is the most serious thing that has happened since the blue-brown budget – which is supported by the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – has gone through is that our health insurance is again being emptied to give tax cuts to people who will hardly notice the extra thousands they get in their wallets. Seven out of ten people on sick leave are women, and it is their health insurance that is now being drained of money. A large transfer of wealth will take place, from working women to rich men who already have it very well in society. At the same time, thousands of people continue to be insured. Thousands of women and men are being discredited today by officials of the Social Insurance Agency, who, because of the tough rules we have, treat people like pawns. People get balled between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, too sick to work but referred to an insurance fund that has been ordered to squeeze people out of health insurance. The Social Insurance Agency has even said itself that the rules on sickness benefit cannot be used. Now the blue-brown parties are making such dramatic cuts to the Employment Service that the people who today would need work training and efforts to get back to work will find it very difficult to get it. It is a kind of double humiliation for the one who has become ill. In addition, the person who has become ill has often become so because of a poor employer and because of stressful work environment in an underfunded home care or health care – i.e. because of other people's decisions. Anyone who has been refused their application can today eat less, beg from friends and acquaintances and refrain from buying presents for grandchildren – or, as many do, raise money for legal assistance to appeal against the rejection of the Social Insurance Fund – only in order to survive. In this situation, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats choose to take the money. They are taken from the sick and given away to people who earn over 42,000 a month. So it is a gift we give to the richest in society, from the sick and from us who pay in to health insurance. Thus, despite the fact that the person who is listening to the debate today has paid into his health insurance throughout his life, the right wing parties are taking the money out and giving it to millionaires, who have neither asked for it nor will notice it at all in their flooded accounts. Instead of sewing up the holes in our safety nets, Moderates, Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats choose to cut the entire net. By reducing benefits and withdrawing benefits, the sick should be suddenly conjured healthy. All of a sudden, the unemployed are going to get a job. But for the rich, it's always the opposite. The rich need a never-ending stream of benefits, deductions and tax breaks to wake up in the morning. It is funny, Madam President, that the extreme right-wing parties of the Swedish-democratic type are giving millions after millions to the ultimate elite – which, moreover, brings the money out of the country. They push through the most aggressive cutting policy I have seen, at least during my time in Parliament. They sell out what we own together, that is, welfare. They take the money that the workers have built up for investments in children and the elderly and send them into tax havens together with the millionaires. Then what happens when people notice the effect? What happens when teachers stress our public sector, which is what they have cut down on? What happens when nurses have to run even faster in the corridors, when preschool teachers do not have time for children and when pensions are too low? Well, then these parties point the finger at immigrants and minorities. In fact, however, it is the parties themselves that are the problem. It is precisely parties such as the Swedish Democrats that are now making money disappear from welfare, health insurance and pensions. They are the ones who dismantle the security we have in the welfare state. It's about 20 billion. So big are the cuts in the blue-brown budget. While everyone is shouting about the enormous recruitment needs in welfare today, the blue-brown surplus in state finances is burning in vain tax cuts. Now, therefore, the construction of thousands of cheap rental apartments is being cancelled. The environmental budget has been abolished and it has made it even more difficult in the long term to maintain good quality welfare. In addition, the Centre Party and the Liberals in their draft budgets want to make further substantial cuts in sickness benefits and sickness and activity benefits. The Liberals propose additional days of withdrawal for those who are ill. The Christian Democrats and Liberals want to reintroduce the longer time limit in health insurance. They think that they, from here in Stockholm, are better placed to determine whether people are ill or healthy than the doctors. The Christian Democrats, whose budget has now been passed, say in the Party's motion that it is very positive that so many people's cases of illness have been closed in connection with the sharp deadlines that have been introduced into health insurance. It is noted that the outflow of sick leave at the rehabilitation chain's deadlines has increased and that the rejection of the application for sickness benefit has become more frequent. Perhaps, Madam President, the Christian Democrats think that the sick have been healed by miracles, as it is told that when he saw Petrus's mother-in-law lying sick in a fever, as the Bible says, Jesus touched her hand. Then the fever left her, and she got up and served him. Unfortunately, however, I do not believe that the sick are cured by the laying on of hands, any more than we can see someone getting well by being thoroughly insured. Instead, what is happening, with Christian-Democracy policy, is that the sick are getting poorer. The Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, have chosen to withdraw the money from the system and instead pour it over the multi-millionaires. We, together with the Swedish people, will not accept it. We're gonna change that. With this, I refer to the special opinion we have with the Green Party and the Social Democrats.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-55	Madam President, I would like Nooshi Dadgostar comes with very loud words about how M, KD and SD would take money from the vulnerable and give money to the rich. But has Nooshi read the budget and M's and KD's reservation? This is exactly the same as the transitional government's proposal. After all, there is no difference in the framework of Category 10 between the transitional government's proposal and M's and KD's reservation – no one! In particular, Nooshi Dadgostar attacks the Swedish Democrats. Have you read our numbers in the budget, Nooshi Dadgostar? We are spending 4.475 billion on Category 10. Is it draining this area of expenditure for the sick? For real, Nooshi-- please, read the budget! Nooshi Dadgostar also expresses a very great fear of the possible influence of the Swedish democrats over a future budget. What's the worst fear? Is it that the sickness allowance should be increased by SEK 300 per month for the most vulnerable, or is it perhaps that the ceiling in the housing allowance should be raised to SEK 6,000? Is it the worst thing that we spend 100 million on the rehabilitation chain in order for those with mental health problems to get better treatment? Is this perhaps the worst suggestion we have? Or is it that you should get a nicer assessment at day 180, so that fewer will have to be insured with unreasonable assessments? Which of these proposals do you think is the worst proposal from SD, which you are so terribly afraid of, Nooshi Dadgostar?
i-AJhqiWbTtzQNVAWkQcvJUM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! I work for the kind of ruler technique that Julia Kronlid uses when she says that I would be one way or the other in my speeches. For me, this is an important issue. This is a transitional budget. It is a completely unpolitical budget. We have built up 60 billion in state finances. What you are doing – excuse me, Madam President, what the Swedish Democrats are doing – is burning up the surplus. You've maxed out your politics. This is the maximum policy from the other side. It does not mean any improvement. The Swedish democrats will be drawn with their own fake budget, where they claim to have money here and draw in money there. It doesn't matter what budget the Swedish Democrats put forward – they still vote in parliament on the Moderates' budget! The Swedish Democrats are a doormat for the Moderates, Madam President. It doesn't matter what they think or don't think. The Moderates are an upper class party, and the Swedish Democrats are running after them. They don't want to improve health insurance. What the Swedish Democrats are doing is voting for the Moderates' budget. Julia Kronlid can stand and talk about exactly what she wants up here – it's moderate budget and moderate politics that comes out of it. It is extremely strange to compare your own policy with an unpolitical budget. You haven't changed anything. After all, there is no change from the non-political budget of the Moderates' budget. That's the strangest thing. The money that I mean would have been used to improve sickness benefit and the sickness benefit system you send off in tax reductions. Then the money disappears. Then there's no resources left.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-65	Madam President, I would like In one speech, Mr Dadgostar wishes to express some sort of great fear that the SD would have had some influence over the budget. She uses various epithets and throws them both against the Moderates and Christian Democrats as well as against the Center and Liberals. Now Nooshi Dadgostar says that SD does not matter and that we have no influence at all. Now I think Dadgostar can make up his mind. Whatever the case, I have gained the confidence of 1.1 million voters to pursue Swedish democratic policy. Of course, we are also writing our own budget and putting forward the policy that we want to put forward. At least that's more than the Left Party has done. You haven't even presented your own budget. You do not even have your own policy in this area. I see it as a responsibility: the voters have voted me in favour of the Swedish Democrats, and I want to pursue our policy. When this did not go through – when others did not vote for our budget – we chose the option where we thought the whole was best. At that time we thought that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats were better than those of the transitional government.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-69	Madam President, I would like I think Julia Kronlid has misunderstood the budgetary process. So we do not have a government; that is why there has been an agreement on a transitional budget. The fact that many parties have not respected this is another issue. It does not matter, so to speak, what Julia Kronlid is standing here in the speaker's chair saying, because she will ultimately vote for a moderate budget. It is a moderate budget that throws away the money of the insured to millionaires, who often take them out of the country. This is my point. What Julia Kronlid does when she votes for this budget is to empty out the health insurance. It is not possible to implement the type of proposal that Julia Kronlid makes if you vote for the Moderates at the same time – they do not want to implement this type of proposal. I feel neither great fear nor anything else for Julia Kronlid's party, but what Julia Kronlid's party does when they vote through this budget is to impair health insurance. It's a problem for me, no matter what Julia Kronlid says she wants to do.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-72	Madam President, I would like Once again, Nooshi Dadgostar and I are here in the speaker's chair debating together. I find it remarkable how the honourable Member chooses to express himself on the Moderates' and the KD's budget motion, which complements the transitional government's proposal. Here the honourable Member says that we are withdrawing money from health insurance. I would like the honourable Member to explain clearly how money is taken out of health insurance. If you read the Moderates' and KD's budget exercise, you can see very clearly that we are spending considerably more money on health care, on queue billions, on primary care and on combating mental illness than anyone else has. I would also like to say, if the honourable Member does not remember, that the Member's party for the last four years has been a support party to the Red-Green Government, which in turn has written a regulatory letter to the Social Insurance Agency, which has decided on the regulatory framework to which the Social Insurance Agency relates with regard to the treatment of sick leave and sickness benefit. I think the honourable Member must bear this in mind before she has any opinion that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are withdrawing money from health insurance.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-75	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This transitional budget is an unpolitical budget. There is no policy in this budget. Large surpluses have been built up in central government finances to be invested in welfare, education and improved compensation systems. What the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats are doing is squandering this surplus. When Swedish Municipalities and County Councils say that you need SEK 50 billion to maintain the quality of the welfare we have today, these outlying parties – one of them is Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's own party – choose to burn this money on meaningless tax cuts that give nothing, which allows rich people to have additional holidays and spend their money in various companies abroad. That's my problem. This money would have had to be spent on sickness benefits or further welfare efforts. I fully agree with the need to change the rules. We're completely clear on that. I also realise that what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is doing is appealing to me as a left-wing party to change the rules that the honourable Member himself has been involved in introducing. Of course, I understand very well that the Moderates are appealing to the Left Party to protect the Swedish people from the Moderates, but perhaps it is not the task of Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm to do so. Otherwise, I would be very grateful if we could together change the rules of sickness benefit. This means a review of the Moderates' own policy in this case.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-79	Madam President, I would like I must once again remind Mr Nooshi that over the last four years the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been in government. It befits a government-supporting party to write regulatory letters, and there the Left Party has been a support party. The Moderates have no influence on how to write a regulatory letter when you are not in a government. It is exciting to talk about large surpluses. It may not be surprising that there are large surpluses in public finances today, because in the last four years we have been living in an incredible boom. It would then be remarkable if we did not have large surpluses in the state finances. These could Nooshi Dadgostar have been more helpful in investing in health insurance.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-81	Madam President, I would like All of this, as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm claims, is very confusing. It is her party that has introduced the very strict rules for sickness benefit and the very strict rules in health insurance. This is how they finance their tax cuts for Swedish millionaires. But now she stands in this Chamber and appeals to the Left Party to protect the Swedish people against this. I understand that, but I also hope that this means that there will be more of us in Parliament who together put pressure, no matter what government it is, to change these rules. The Left Party has been alone in the parliament's chamber in wanting to change the regulations for health insurance. We have, of course, been on the previous government to change the directives that have been sent to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. As far as the Moderates are concerned, it has been very quiet in the matter, I understand. I don't hear the Moderates talking about this. What you have done is to spend the money that we have built together in this country on pointless tax cuts instead of investing in welfare.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-84	Madam President, I would like We have heard a clear left-wing policy here for a moment. It is strange that the Left Party is expressing itself in this way when they have got through so many proposals in the Social Democratic Government, which they have often strove for in the past four years. Yet Nooshi Dadgostar says that there is no money in Sweden's municipalities and county council, that they want more for health care. Then I wonder why the Left Party has not made sure that it has been so. No, they have instead increased allowances and allowances for people. This is something that surprises me and the Center Party. We also heard that the Left Party believes that women are disadvantaged by the proposal of our party, the Center Party. Then again, I wonder why the Left Party, which has been highly involved in the decisions taken by the Social Democratic Government, has not invested more in women and helped them to avoid being on sick leave, i.e. that they receive help and support to get back to work. And why have you not invested in gender equality and looked at other parts of the sick leave process that would contribute to a shorter sick leave instead of just increasing the benefits? You don't get healthier by an increased replacement. You go back to work if you get help and support to do so. Why have you not addressed the gaps in gender equality?
i-CoaSWvc5ActrbLr5sbHPUc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! I think it is good that Mr Zander is honest in this debate on health insurance. The Center Party does not want to relax the regulations of sickness benefit. They think the compensation levels are too high. They do not want to relax the rules regarding sickness benefit, even though the Social Insurance Agency itself believes that this is a regulatory framework that does not work. I regret this because it means that it makes it harder for me and the Moderates to push on to ease the regulatory environment for sickness benefit. We have, of course, turned the whole policy away from the eight bourgeois alliance years, as it was only cuts, privatisations and tax cuts that would solve all the problems. We saw that it didn't. The housing shortage increased, workplace stress increased, the working environment deteriorated and the Public Employment Service functioned worse with less resources. We turned that policy around and have made great investments. The Left Party has made investments in maternity care and care for the elderly, and we have increased our efforts in home care. We got through the biggest investment in municipal welfare since 1993 in Sweden. However, I fully agree that there are still things to be done. I think that the surpluses that we have also had in the future – this is an ongoing work – should be invested in health care, in care for the elderly, in preschool and in school. That is my conviction. But that does not mean that we are going to impair the compensation system. The benefits we have are those that we have paid in together and which belong to welfare.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-90	Madam President, I would like I am surprised that the Left Party is now saying that the regulations are not working and, in the next breath, they are saying that they have been in charge and have received more people in home care and an improved maternity care. She says that we have left the sick leave process so that people can be on sick leave longer. But that's not true. Sick leave is getting shorter. We heard that in the speech by the Left Party, but it was also wrong. It's all wrong! What exactly do you want? You have contributed to the fact that it is as it is and have given the directives to Försäkringskassan that fewer people should be on sick leave. Then it's wrong, too. You speak with a split tongue.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-92	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to keep up with what Solveig Zander is talking about. What is it that the Center Party wants? There are many of us who wonder in these times. Health insurance needs to be improved. The rules need to be changed. The regulations introduced by the then bourgeois government in 2008 need to be changed, because the rules are too strict. People must feel that the insurance they themselves have been involved in paying for works on the day they can no longer work. Of course we should have extensive rehabilitation, and of course efforts are needed for work training and other things in order to be able to get back to work. This is what the whole system is based on. But then you cannot make big cuts to the Employment Service and spend all our common money on tax cuts to the absolutely richest. It doesn't work.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Nooshi. I had to ask for a reply, because I wonder where the limit is in politics when it comes to black painting and claims about what others think and think. The MP describes it as that the Christian Democrats in their motion would be delighted with the different deadlines. The delight of the Christian Democrats has to do with people being able to return to their work. During the last five and a half years before I became a Member of Parliament, I have been in charge, and I have had staff who have been on sick leave. Sometimes we have put in quite extensive rehabilitation efforts, and I admit without doubt that both me and the employee have been delighted when this has produced results and the worker has been able to return to work. Closure should always be the result of a functioning rehabilitation chain, not of narrower assessments. The honourable Member mentioned so much, but let me comment quickly on the budget. The speech was not very much about the area of expenditure, but it can still stand to be commented on because there were so many claims. Of course, the demagoguery of tax cuts for the rich can be done, but also inform those who listen that it is a maximum of 500 SEK in tax reductions for a wage earner. It is above all a question of everyone getting a tax cut with our proposal. The monthly wage earner receives 0.8 percent tax reduction, while the monthly earner receives 0.5 percent. So there is a focus on reducing the tax on those who do not have as much.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-101	Madam President, I would like The most important thing in this debate is to focus on the one who is stressed and has been on sick leave. What's important is what's happening out there in the real world. That's what I'm talking about. I understand that the Member of Parliament thinks that what the Christian Democrats write about in their motion is something he has experienced in his work. But that is not the reality. Many people are distrusted and rejected, and if you read your motion you can see that it is received very positively without you thinking about what this is all about. No, people do not come back to work; they are excluded and poor and cannot survive on anything but friends and relatives. That's the reality. Then it will be quite unrealistic to write as the Christian Democrats do in their motion that it is so good that so many are denied their application for sickness benefit and that it is so good that many are insured, because it is not that you come back to regular work. It's not a black painting, it's the reality of a lot of people. The MP should take this in and go out and meet people and talk to those who actually get to meet the Social Insurance Agency and feel to just the body that they are not believed and are not able to come back, either with rehabilitation or efforts. Hans Eklind can of course talk about percentages, because then it always looks much better for those who are low earners. Instead, let us talk about the number of crowns you receive. A low - income earner may receive a 50, while a high - income earner receives 500 crowns. It is not a good distribution, and this money would have been needed to improve the insurance system.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-106	Madam President, I would like Meaningless tax reductions, the representative of the Left Party stands and says in Parliament's Chamber. I am not surprised, because that is how the Left Party sees tax cuts: D e is always by definition meaningless. But tell that to the pensioner who receives SEK 1 300 in tax reduction thanks to the proposal that has won the approval of the House. I do not think that this pensioner would agree with the view that this tax reduction is pointless. We want to do much more, but this is a budget reservation. According to the Member of Parliament, the Christian Democrats would find it positive that people are being distrusted. I'm not going down to that level. The honourable Member cannot have read our motion in an honest manner, and had the honourable Member understood that it was in our motion, she should have asked a question about it and not stood here blacking out and saying things. There is nothing in our motion that will even come close to justifying the honourable Member to say such things in the Swedish Parliament.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-109	Madam President, I would like For all those who listen to the debate, just go and see what the Christian Democrats have written in their motion. They say that it is very positive that people are refused their application and that it is very positive that after 180 days they no longer receive sickness benefit. But we all know that you do not get back to work. Hans Eklind can say that's not true and that's not what you meant. But what did you mean? Perhaps you should have written what you meant in your motion, because that's not what it said. We know that's how it works. If you didn't, you'd have spent more money on sick pay. But this is the maximum policy from the outside. You have not contributed a single crown to the sickness allowance, and then it cannot be improved. There must be this many rejections if health insurance is not improved. You must defend this system if you have this budget. It's as simple as that.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-113	Madam President, I would like Everyone can suffer illness or injury. There's no justice in that. It just happens. The disease can be congenital or affect you suddenly during your life. It is therefore important that health insurance should be provided with a loss of income insurance for those who are so ill that they cannot carry out any work. An important basic bolt is that the insured person feels that health insurance can be trusted. I'm sure anyone who can work will. No one wants to be sick, but unfortunately some get sick or injured. Then it is important that society enters and provides the support and assistance needed to enable a return to work. I was in the parliamentary social security inquiry for a while. It was concluded there that the longer time limit could be removed if it was replaced by other reconciliation points. These points would help and support the individual so that he would get the right efforts in the form of rehabilitation and medical care. However, the government chose to remove the cut-off date without introducing any other measures, and today we see that the application of the regulations on sick leave has become much tougher and more people are being rejected. Liberals believe that we must have health insurance that is legally secure while being flexible, empathetic and sustainable over time. The insured person must be able to rely on insurance and society to make the necessary efforts. We must also ensure that different social actors cooperate and strengthen health care opportunities so that the individual can regain his or her work capacity if possible. Efforts such as sick leave billions and queue billions have been important to shorten waiting times in healthcare and ensure that the right efforts are made at the right time. In Category 9, we Liberals want to reintroduce queue billions, which would ultimately affect our spending area through shorter treatment periods. These, in turn, would lead to shorter sick leave. We also want the work on developing Finsam to continue. We believe that the regulations on sick leave are very square. It is usually not adapted to the individual, but the individual has to adapt to the regulatory framework. Today you can be on sick leave at 100, 75, 50 or 25 percent, which means that you work 0, 10, 20 and 30 hours a week. For example, if you have been on sick leave at half-time and worked 20 hours a week, the next step is to work 30 hours a week. It's an extension of 2 hours a day, and it's a very big step for the one who's been sick. We believe that we must be flexible and allow for an increase that does not have a step of 10 hours a week. If the person has the opportunity to work 22 hours, we should encourage it without the individual feeling a threat of getting rid of his sickness benefit. According to the current regulations, half of the working time must also be worked every day in the case of half-time sick leave. But it may be that you feel good and manage to work 5 hours a day and get one day off a week to rest. That possibility does not exist today. We need more flexible insurance that is tailored to the individual. Liberals had their own budget bill for this area of expenditure. As our budget fell last week's vote on the budget, I refer to our specific opinion. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the parliamentary officials, who, with a cheerful temper and good service, have ensured that this somewhat different autumn has come to fruition. I wish you all a restful Christmas and a happy New Year.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-122	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 10, which concerns financial security in the event of illness and disability. This autumn has been marked by attempts at constructive discussions about how Sweden should be steered forward after a complicated election result. The process is continuing. It's drawn-out, but it's important. During this time, the Transitional Government has submitted a budget to the Riksdag. It's a transitional budget. The principles of this were developed together with the opposition and aim not to precede the formation of government. This means that the budget should not include new policies that bind future governments. Nevertheless, the draft budgets of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have been voted through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. This budget includes major tax cuts and a slaughtered environmental and climate budget. Despite the need for a strong climate policy to stem climate change in the short time we have, M and KD cut away most of the environment and climate. The airline tax is completely removed. The flight is now completely free of the huge climate emissions it causes. The tax on petrol and diesel is reduced to make it less profitable to switch to an environmental car. Billions of climate investments are cut. It is money that could go to the investment in biogas. Cycle lanes are being pulled away. Climate projects all over the country may be scrapped. The support for solar cells is severely cut, and many Swedes who want to put solar cells on their roofs will now be forced to scrap the plans. The protection of valuable nature is halved. These are just a few examples. There are also many people who will lose their jobs around the country. The Moderates and Christian Democrats have not bothered to make any impact assessments of what decisions will mean for the substance, for the people who work with them or for the people who expect to get support or income that they will not be able to get now. The area of expenditure that we are debating today contains funds for sickness benefit, rehabilitation, indemnification, activity and sickness benefits, additional expenses, disability benefits and so on. As I said, the budget proposal has been decided by a transitional government. The proposal is based on the 2018 budget with adjustments for price and wage conversions and taking into account changing macroeconomic developments. Since the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' draft budget went through in this House last week and the spending framework that has been decided and which now applies at the second stage of the budgetary process are different from those we have advocated, we choose to abstain from the position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 10. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to all Members and all parliamentary officials.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-132	Madam President, I would like Community spending on sick leave is high. The costs of sickness benefit and rehabilitation amounted to 32 billion in 2014. This year they are estimated to be around SEK 37 billion. This compares with the situation in 2010, when the corresponding figure was 20.5 billion. I would like to remind the Members who took part in the visit of the acting Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency to the Social Security Committee that she was very clear about the directives she had received to reduce sickness rates. At the same time, she was very clear that 98.5% of all sick leave was granted. This is therefore not correct with the description given by all those who are insured and do not receive their sick leave granted. Our security systems should support those affected by illness or disability. From the individual's perspective, sick leave leads to poorer private finances, and a long absence from working life often leads to fewer social contacts in everyday life. The exclusion is both economic and social. For me, it is obvious that society's efforts should, as far as possible, focus on helping people back to work. Those who are ill or injured and unable to work must of course be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. However, a person who has or regains his or her capacity for work must always be entitled to support and help to get back to work. Madam President, I would like I think it is the wrong way to go, as the government is phasing out the time limit and reopening early retirement. Instead, the health insurance system should be reformed to break the negative trend and to create a long-term stable health insurance system that does not show the variations over time that have taken place so far. The opportunities and incentives to act to help people return to work must be strengthened for all actors in the health insurance system: the insured, the employer, the doctor and the administrator of the Social Insurance Agency. Madam President, I would like All people define their own health based on their own context. The interaction between illness and health is easy to see intuitively, but it is sometimes difficult to draw boundaries between them. Disease often creates a feeling of ill health. At the same time, a perceived illness in itself can create disease. Working conditions can create a feeling of ill health, and a perceived poor health can affect how you experience your working conditions. Similarly, the concept of work capacity is difficult to define objectively. The ability to work depends entirely on the job in question. Mental ill-health is an overall term that includes impaired mental well-being, diagnosed mental illness and mental disability. Psychiatric diagnoses have been the most common reason for sick leave since 2014. In order to counteract a trend towards an increasing number and increasing number of cases of mental illness, support for mental illness should be improved. As has been pointed out, health and work capacity issues are complex and multifaceted. The situation is also complicated in the psychiatric diagnosis. After all, we know roughly how long it takes for a broken leg to heal, and we know roughly how the ability to work is affected by this broken bone. However, it looks different for mental illness. That is why we need to create a new track in the rehabilitation chain for mental diagnoses, as the deadlines in the existing chain are actually better adapted for traditional illnesses. Madam President, I would like I believe that earlier on in a sick leave, it should be examined whether the sick person would be better off with other jobs at the workplace or with the employer. In this part, a special effort is being made at Arbetsförmedlingen to create a special system for changers who, for health reasons, need to change jobs. In this step, we would also like to invite the social partners to review the possibility of taking a more active role in this transition for the sick person. There is a broad consensus among our expert authorities that the employer has a key role to play in reducing sick leave. I see a clear need to create a better incentive structure for employers in terms of preventive work on psychosocial work environment, early intervention and better rehabilitation. The doctor has a key role in the sick leave process. The doctor diagnoses and documents occupational ailments. This work is complex, which has to do with the difficulties surrounding the concepts of illness and work capacity. To help, the doctor has the insurance medicine decision support. A better way to get the medical profession to take responsibility for sick leave would be to make it clear to the patient, as the Expert Group on Public Finance Studies suggests, that it is the Social Insurance Agency and not the doctor who decides on the right to compensation. The Social Insurance Agency should therefore be able to set quality requirements for health care providers who issue health certificates. The requirements may include, for example, that doctors should have some knowledge of the rules of health insurance and how to assess work capacity. Madam President, I would like Health care has a central role to play in breaking long-term sick leave, but the interaction with health insurance needs to be strengthened. The fundamental lack of synergy resulting from the fact that health care and health insurance do not have financially and organisationally strong common interests and objectives must be balanced better than today. The Social Security Inspectorate notes that early rehabilitation interventions before sick leave are better placed to prevent future sick leave than to increase the return of sick leave to work. For this reason, the possibility of early rehabilitation interventions should be strengthened. Evaluations of past interventions against mental illness before and after sick leave have shown that the treatments introduced before sick leave had a good effect on the patient's health, while those initiated after sick leave had more limited effect. An employer can offer his or her staff a tax-free and free personal care benefit in the form of exercise and other health care of a simpler kind. Within the framework of wellness, stress management is also covered according to the Swedish Tax Agency. Today there is also an opportunity for employers to deduct the costs of preventive treatment if the employer can demonstrate that the treatment is aimed at enabling the employee to continue working. These opportunities should be developed to encourage employees and employers to act more and more proactively. The Moderates have no claims of their own in Category 10, as the proposals I have described require preparation. I therefore support the proposal in the Social Security Committee's report 2018/ 19:SfU1 Area of expenditure 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. I would like to join Emma Carlsson Löfdahl's thanks to all employees with the wish of a Merry Christmas.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-147	Madam President, I would like Expenditure area 10 is one of the largest items in the state budget. Nevertheless, the budget presented by the Moderates has not proposed a single extra crown. At the same time, we hear from the speaker's chair an incredible number of different proposals to be implemented. We also hear about an investment in Arbetsförmedlingen for changers. We all know that there will be major reductions at Arbetsförmedlingen. How will it be financed?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-149	Madam President, I would like If Mrs Pettersson listened to what I said, she would have heard that I said that these were proposals that we will prepare. That is why we have not yet put them in our budget. As far as the Employment Service is concerned, of course, that question does not belong to this committee. However, I can inform the honourable Member that the reductions in the Employment Service included in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats correspond to approximately 700. Today there are 14 000 employees in the Employment Service area. The planned reduction shall take place in dialogue and with natural departures according to the plan contained in the budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-152	Madam President, I would like One of the most important ways to get people back into work is the collaboration between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. If you are going to make cuts at Arbetsförmedlingen, how is it going to be able to manage that task? One way to get people back is pay-as-you-go. There, the Employment Service plays an incredibly important role. One can, for example, be involved in adapting the workplace and so on, so that the employer does not have to. It is also an incentive to dare bring people into the workplace. With these cuts, I don't see how we can get people back in the workplace.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-155	Madam President, I would like I can inform Mr Pettersson that the Moderates' and the KD's budget also includes an increased ceiling in the salary allowance. There is an investment of SEK 700 million to Samhall so that people who are the furthest away from the labour market are given opportunities to gain employment or greater participation in the labour market. I look forward with great confidence to greater participation in the labour market and a lower number of people on sick leave.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-156	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal for a decision. In this area of expenditure, it means that the proposal by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates does not contain any deviations from the government's draft budget in the area of Economic Security in the field of Disease and Disability. We Christian Democrats believe that insurance should be compulsory and jointly funded. It is about people's security during the different stages of life. We also want to leave room for complementary solutions and personal responsibility. The insurance shall be designed in such a way that the person in need of support and assistance is provided with it but also encouraged to participate in measures that can lead to good health and a rapid return to work after injury or illness. Madam President, I would like Today, mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave. Almost half of all sick leave made today consists of psychiatric diagnoses. Here we Christian Democrats believe that it is important to have preventive work and perspectives with you if you want to reduce sick leave rates. The perspective must be broad, because of course it is not just about the workplace and problems that may arise there. Policies are needed to reduce stress and create the conditions for better public health. It's a lot about getting your life puzzle together. We therefore need to shape a policy that continuously strives for and seeks better conditions for the individual and the family to get their everyday lives together. We Christian Democrats therefore want a policy that increases empowerment and freedom of choice; we believe that this is the way we can respond to this. Then we cannot get around the fact that investments in health care and primary care, for example, are important, because if we can reduce the queues and the processing times, it will of course also have an impact on the area that we are debating here today. We Christian Democrats want to be clear that good conditions and conditions in working life are central to keeping sick leave rates down. Here there is a need to draw attention to the fact that there is a development in the world of work that I would like to describe as a little double. It is double in the sense that the limits of where and when a job is to be done and when I, as an employee, am expected to be available are becoming increasingly fuzzy. This development is twofold because, on the one hand, it creates the possibility of greater flexibility. If so, it benefits the employee, because it can make it easier to reconcile family life with working life. On the other hand, it can lead to the direct opposite, namely the establishment of a standard that allows work also to take place at times when it was supposed to have vacation or leisure time. It creates stress, and there will definitely be less time for recovery. Here we Christian Democrats believe that there is a definite need for more knowledge about the conditions of modern working life and how it affects family life, children's health and personal health. For those who lack the capacity to work because of illness, sickness insurance shall be a security. A person who regains the capacity to work, in whole or in part, shall receive the assistance and support necessary to return to work. Everything else is a waste of both human and social resources. Of course, it can be bounced that more than SEK 36.2 billion was paid in sickness benefit in 2017. However, it should be remembered that in addition to this SEK 36.2 billion, there are costs that cannot be counted in SEK and krona. This concerns the risks of sick leave in the form of sequelae, social isolation and mental illness. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, within the framework of the previous alliance government, contributed to strengthening the opportunities for people with sickness and activity benefits to try out a job, study or voluntary work. However, it is a fact that those who currently live on sickness and activity benefits have an economically very vulnerable position that is difficult or impossible to influence. That is why we are in favour of raising the guarantee and the housing supplement, as well as a reduced tax on people with sickness and activity benefits. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, efforts for people with disabilities are extremely important. This is a group that is over-represented in long-term exclusion. We have pointed out that it is great that there are different types of state aid when hiring people with reduced working capacity. This is to go to a job, to experience a work community, to feel that you have contributed and to feel that leisure time becomes a leave and not a difficulty – it's important. In 2007, the Alliance government took the initiative to break exclusion through work-integrated social enterprises. They accept people who are farthest away from the labour market. Today there are 300 such companies, and we Christian Democrats believe that they can and will be more. We therefore want to invest in these companies. I support the committee's proposal for a decision. Finally, I would also like to wish Madam President, all the great officials of Parliament and my colleagues on the Social Security Committee a blessed Christmas and a happy New Year.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-169	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Social Affairs Committee's report SoU1 Area of expenditure 9 Health, health and social care. It is an extremely important area for citizens, which was one of the issues ranked highest by the voters in the autumn elections. After the election, we have been able to see that this autumn was not like everyone else. The Prime Minister was voted out without the parties that did so having a plan for the next step in the process. We were given a transitional government which, according to the form of government, has to administer what is necessary for the country and which will work. But a transitional government cannot take political initiatives, it cannot resign and it cannot call for new elections. However, it must submit a budget to Parliament within the prescribed time limit. It is a transitional budget which should not express the political will of any party but allow the incoming government to put its political character in an amending budget as soon as it takes effect. Principles for the form of a transitional budget were negotiated widely with a majority of parliamentary parties. When we then had to take a position on the transitional budget, which followed the principles agreed upon, the Moderates suddenly came to the conclusion that there are major societal challenges that cannot wait for a new government and that they must therefore present their own budgetary motion. Clearly, the biggest societal challenge was to cut taxes by 15 billion, mostly for those like us who earn well. Several other parties followed. Forgotten was the principle of transitional budget, forgotten was the idea that the incoming government would have the opportunity to make its mark on economic policy and forgotten were all discussions about responsibility for the country at a special time. That action could also be a practice in similar difficult situations in the future – it had also been forgotten. Madam President, I would like I have not chosen to engage in politics because I am interested in political gaming theories and tactically ugly games. I have chosen to engage because I want to participate in shaping society in a direction that I believe in, based on my fundamental values. I want to be involved in taking responsibility both for the country as a whole and for the activities that we in the Committee on Social Affairs have to deal with. I have some key words for how I want to do it. It's about responsibility, honesty, thoughtfulness, sense and balance. Unfortunately, the budgetary process we have now witnessed is not an expression of any of my key words. After having first submitted their own budget movements on the theme of the wish list for Christmas, the Moderates and Christian Democrats decided to mess it up even more. During the ongoing process, they would sign up with new texts and new budget tables, and the Swedish Democrats obviously got along. First, the Swedish Democrats voted on their own budget, then voted on the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget, and then they went back to committee and declared that they did not support the framework they have just voted for. Here, somewhere, the border was clearly crossed into a direct unserious handling. The impact on individuals, businesses, authorities, municipalities and regions is not transparent. Madam President, I do not mean to criticise the fact that the Parliament is imposing a government budget. It has happened in the past and is likely to happen again, but the normal thing must be for the government in such a case to have the opportunity to resign or announce extra elections. Turning to the area of expenditure we are debating today, I would like to begin by stating that health care and care for the elderly are large and complex systems with many stakeholders involved. It is not easy to neither measure nor evaluate all the different parts of the system and how they interact and how they benefit patients. Therefore, it is rarely inappropriate to meet challenges with simple solutions that can be described by classy political oneliners. We have before us today a fairly classic bourgeois budget. It is not a matter of trust in the competence and ability of the health care personnel to develop and design their operations for the benefit of their patients, but rather of control, whip and carrot. The carrot is that those who pass the criteria set by the Moderates and Christian Democrats get more money. Those who can't do it don't get any money, even though the root cause of failure to carry out their mission from the very beginning may be a lack of resources. The already rich regions and municipalities have a greater chance of getting more while the poorer are at risk of getting less. The biggest challenge of health care and care, namely the supply of skills, is surprisingly little mentioned. Staff working conditions, working environment and opportunities for influence also seem rather uninteresting. Unfortunately, the model queue billion as a control system also characterises elderly care in this budget. It removes 2 billion to staffing, skills development, technological and continuing training and adds a form of queue billions in this area as well. The risk that it will be a matter of numerical, rather than long-term, sustainable solutions, is not insignificant. Due to the great time pressure and the lack of analysis in the budget work, planning conditions are becoming very difficult for the principals. An ideological issue, rather than a major economic one, is the fact that general welfare for children and young people is being dismantled. You remove free swimming and holiday activities for children and instead introduce a leisure allowance for those with the least resources to apply for. Madam President, I would like After all, I hope that in some important areas we can find broad agreements. My firm opinion is that this parliamentary term will be largely about what we can agree on, not what is different. Regardless of which government is taking office, we have the parliamentary position that we have, at least until a possible additional election. With the demographic challenges we all know, with more children and more older people, our conviction is that the need for resources will increase. We also need to find more effective ways of operating. New technologies need to be developed and put into use, and we will need to train more to cover the needs of the activities. For us Social Democrats it will always be more important to invest in welfare than to lower taxes for those who earn the most. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats have not raised any motion, as we still believe that the transitional budget should have been passed. Our intention is to formulate our policy in this area in an amending budget or in a motion on it. As we do not support the Framework Decision, we are also abstaining from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure and would therefore refer to our special opinion together with the Left and the Green Party.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-185	Madam President, I would like Rather quickly when I listened to Kristina Nilsson's speech, I came to think of the expression: Surt, said the fox. The budget put in place by the Moderates and the KD is a strong, offensive budget that tackles all the failures that have taken place over the past four years. It is true that we have a transitional government, but we do not have a transitional holiday. Moderates and Christian Democrats have not forgotten it, nor are we allowed to forget the situation in our health care when visiting it. No, this is to live up to the electoral promises we made to our constituents about what turned out to be the most important issue in the elections and based on people feeling a genuine concern about how healthcare has developed during the past term of office. We also saw, as a response, a historical shift out in our county councils where we have had the longest queues in health care in the red county councils. Unfortunately, a county council is still completely tired, and unfortunately we also see one of the longest queues. There were long queues in 2006 when we took over, but we changed this through the queue billion. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have chosen to remove the queue billions. We are now going to reintroduce it. But with the facts in hand and based on how the voters have reacted, is it not the case, Kristina Nilsson, that the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party should have worked differently to graze the queues in the care and make sure that people do not have to sit in waiting rooms but get care on time?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-189	Madam President, I would like We agree, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and I, that the availability of healthcare needs to be improved, waiting times need to be shortened and so on. I hear Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is talking about not having a transitional holiday but a transitional government. It's true, but I can't see that it's very relevant. If it were precisely this area that was prioritised by the representatives of the Moderates, consider the great ax-cut in this budget of 15 billion in tax cuts for myself and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for example. Why has there not been an additional investment in health care, care and so on? That is the first question. With regard to the modified queue billion, it will now also include diagnostics, return visits, rehabilitation, and other healthcare processes – it is unclear which – first-line psychiatry for children and young people and also the queues in cancer care eventually. All these details are to be resolved by agreement with SKL. Given the urgency of this budget, I wonder: When does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall estimate that this agreement may be ready and begin to work in reality? And how much will the administration of this project cost?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-191	Madam President, I would like The results after eight years of an alliance government were quite clear. We have done it before and we will do it again: we will have to clean up your medical queues. After these four years, there are still doubled medical queues and triple queues for child and youth psychiatry. It will be difficult to think that you should not be humble as a social democrat when you see what you have done for four years in Sweden. Let me also mention the lines of cancer care. Prime Minister Löfven promised that no one would have to wait more than four weeks. We know that the situation has become much worse. There also S, V and MP have chosen to reserve. I'd like to ask, why?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-193	Madam President, I would like Our specific opinion shows precisely what we think about making a new cancer strategy, which was what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall asked about. Our reservation is based on the meetings the government has had with user associations, professionals and others involved. We see that we do not want a completely new cancer strategy. It is felt that it is valuable to maintain the cancer strategy we have and to ensure that we continue to care for and develop it. Instead, to use the time to develop a completely new cancer strategy to be submitted to Parliament, we do not see it as reasonable. It will only take more time. It does not benefit the development of cancer care.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-196	Madam President, I would like Health care is one of the basic elements of a country's welfare system. If people do not have access to high-quality care, there is a great risk that they will lose faith in the common social contract. It would be devastating for our Swedish society. Four years ago, the Social Democrats promised to shorten care queues in general and to focus on cancer care in particular. One promise to all cancer patients was that treatment would be given within four weeks. Now, after four years, we have come to the conclusion: the care queues have doubled. The promise of a maximum of four weeks between referral and care has not been fulfilled either. So we are still far from the target for lead times in the standardised course of cancer care. We are in a situation where people with serious and deadly diseases do not get the help they need. In other words, people are dying while waiting for care in Sweden today. What plan do the Social Democrats have for the cancer patients who are in these chronically long care queues today and who are not receiving treatment on time? We should remember that for a cancer patient counts every day. You don't have time to wait. My second question is: in what way can we trust that the Social Democrats will be able to shorten the care queues in cancer care, for example, in the future, when they did not succeed in the last parliamentary term?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-201	Madam President, I would like I have no problem saying that we must continue to work on short-term care lines. We all agree on that. Rather, it is when it comes to how it is to be done that we differ. I think we need to work together to find out all the good ways to work on the issue. It should also be remembered that care queues do not say everything about the state of health care, for example about what happens to multisick elderly people, chronicles and many others. It is a fairly extensive part of health care. It is difficult to get the hang of it if you just discuss the way we have to measure care queues today. It is important to discuss it, so that it is not just a numerical and balling with numbers based on what is easiest to relate to. When it comes to cancer care, I think it was a good job that the bourgeois government initiated. We Social Democrats have continued that work. It will need to be continued and further developed. The challenges of care are not solved in three years or in one term of office, perhaps not even in two. We need a clearer, more long-term plan for how to solve it. I think we all need to be more humble there and discuss it.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-205	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not get answers to the questions whether you have a plan or why we should be able to trust that you can shorten the care queues in the future. Kristina Nilsson says we should all work together. I agree. That is why we invited a joint national collection to discuss these issues. Among others, the Social Democrats declined. Apparently, prestige was more important. In our budget, there are several concrete measures to shorten waiting times, including in cancer care. However, if you do not want to look at those tips, there are other measures that could be taken immediately, in this emergency situation. One is to review the regulatory framework for healthcare abroad. Today, many people choose to turn to our neighbours, not least in cancer care. The queues are shorter there. But then you also have to put money in advance, which is expensive for many. Do you have any ambition to review and change the regulatory framework for healthcare abroad?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-209	Madam President, I would like I can make Per Ramhorn happy that we have a plan. We have a plan for the future development of healthcare. It does not include major tax cuts for the already wealthy, but includes investment in health care, investment in staff, in the working environment and in skills development and further training. We also need to listen to the staff and ensure that they get the conditions they need to do a good job. It is not we, who are standing here in the Parliament's pulpit, who resolve the direct meeting of the health care recipients. That's what the staff do. We are convinced that this is a path we can map out by working together and with the staff, with research and with the profession, so that it will be better in the future.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-212	Madam President, I would like Kristina Nilsson, social democrat, represents a party that had a health plan for the previous parliamentary term. It resulted in considerably longer queues. Today there are 93 000 people. You might think it's a tough number and call it dribbled with numbers. But there are 93 000 people in line. You had a plan, Kristina Nilsson. Several social democrats have noted that health care was not the important issue for the Social Democrats, because it was a failure. Madam President, I would like My question to Kristina Nilsson today is: Does it feel wrong to do something different? The embodiment was a way of working that led to shorter queues. More people were treated on time. Is it not better to try it than what you have done for four years? It was a plan that resulted in longer queues.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-215	Madam President, I would like It is precisely this kind of rhetoric that I think we should try not to use. Now the bourgeois side is saying that we have had a term of office to solve all the challenges of care and that we have not managed to do so. I would remind you that you had two terms of office, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, and you did not manage it either. I think the issue needs to be seen in a longer perspective than that. I definitely think we should be able to do things differently, try new ways and so on. But something different is not to reintroduce a queue billion which we have already tried. It had an effect at first, but we all know – we follow the statistics – that it lost effect quite soon. I do not think it is new to reintroduce it. It is to meet the challenges of the future with yesterday's solutions. It's not very often it's a smart road. I'm sure we need to do new things. But then it shouldn't be old, already tried and condemned things.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-218	Madam President, I would like I agree with Kristina Nilsson that you always need to see how things turned out, what needs to be changed and improved. We started that work. Kristina Nilsson is right that when a method has been put in place and used for a longer period, the system will adapt to it and not make the necessary changes. We were just changing. But there was a shift of power, and instead they went back to a method of sending out the money and saying that it was enough to send in a plan, not that results would be achieved. Instead, we have doubled queues. Now it is time to return to a method of improving queue billions. It had shortcomings at the end, but one should make sure that there is a substantial addition and that it is precisely shorter queues that are the goal. How else can people get back to work? How else will people receive the care they need if they are in line for more than 90 days? It is not the care that we Christian Democrats want to see.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-221	Madam President, I would like I do not believe in queue billions as an idea on the basis of what I mentioned in my speech, namely that those with great resources and good prospects have a greater chance of getting more money, while those regions and municipalities with fewer opportunities and fewer resources are at risk of getting less money. It is my view that the queue billions will separate regions and municipalities instead of building the country together. I don't think that's a good way to go. I would like to hear when Mr Ankarberg Johansson will give her speech if she can explain how long it will take. I also asked Camilla Waltersson Grönvall how long it will take before this money can be used in view of all the administration that will be needed and all the new things that the queue billion should include. I do not think it will be able to be used in 2019 at all.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-223	Madam President, I would like There are several areas of welfare where the situation is very serious right now. One of these areas will be debated here and now. This is an area which the Red-Green Government has largely failed to deal with, namely health care, i.e. Category 9. Sweden today, as we all know, has long care queues where people get very bad and even die. Furthermore, confidence in Swedish healthcare has become record low, which is of course extremely serious. This is mainly based on the fact that accessibility has been in a downward spiral for many years. The care queues have been allowed to grow year by year without responsible politicians having any plan or answer to how to reverse this negative development. What concerns me in particular is that over the last four years, the number of people in care queues has increased drastically. I would say that the last four years are four years lost for Swedish health care if you look at how many people are currently suffering in these care queues. It can now be noted in retrospect that the Red-Green Government did not have the ability to reverse the negative three-year period in terms of care queues. Instead, the situation has escalated. This summer, one in three patients had waited longer than the 90 days of the guarantee for their treatment or surgery in specialist care. So we are talking about nearly 130 000 patients of meat and blood who have waited longer than is permitted by the Health Act. This is the highest figure since we started measuring the queues here in the country. In addition, Madam President, I looked earlier today at the figures on the achievement of the standard health care processes for cancer care, and that was not a merry reading. Let me give you a few examples. In the case of severe prostate cancer, from diagnosis to treatment, it should be a maximum lead time of 60 days. But it turns out that only 4 percent of these patients receive care within the appointed lead time. In the case of acute blood cancer, even half of patients do not receive treatment on time. This, of course, is not good enough, Madam President. It's a huge failure for the whole of society. Above all, however, it is a disaster for the individual patient and for relatives who are forced to suffer this inhumane suffering. As I said earlier, it should be remembered that for a cancer patient counts every day. But, Madam President, it did not have to be like this. If we look out and see how it is in Europe and in our Nordic neighbours, we have managed to shorten their healthcare queues and increase accessibility in healthcare. Then, of course, we can do the same. Resources will be needed. But above all, Madam President, a focused and strategic effort is needed to remove the care queues. That is why we have proposed in our budget a completely new healthcare reform that includes a battery of measures in several areas of health care. There we have largely drawn inspiration from our Nordic neighbours, mainly from Denmark. Denmark had similar problems with long-term care queues in the past, but there it has managed to reverse the trend, which means that it is today able to meet the time requirement. There is also a monthly guarantee that all patients receive treatment under this guarantee. I live down in Skåne and often watch Danish television. Nowadays there are very rare discussions about care queues and long waiting times in the Danish media. There are no queues – two separate worlds. In our new health care reform, we are introducing a completely new health guarantee that we call patient rights guarantee. It is a real guarantee with both belt and braces, not as today's health guarantee that I would call a clean paper product. It should be remembered that society always has a responsibility for its citizens, and that responsibility also means that society should in every way ensure that citizens receive rapid and safe healthcare that reduces their suffering. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, and that is something we want to change and fight for. Madam President, I would like We also believe that national IT support should be developed to provide an overall picture of waiting times and availability for all hospitals and health care establishments throughout the country. This would make it possible to make more efficient use of existing resources and thus reduce waiting times for patients. But it would also help patients and relatives to see where in the country a specific treatment or operation has the shortest waiting time to get there, which ultimately means an increased choice for patients but also a strengthened patient power, which is very good and important. Another crucial factor in increasing the availability of healthcare, Madam President, is a significant improvement in the working environment and conditions for the country's health workers. This is important in order to retain existing staff and to attract back staff who for some reason have stopped. There are no shortcuts here if we are to cope with future skills provision in healthcare. In our budget we are making a series of proposals for measures that would improve the situation of health professionals drastically so that the health professions can become the dream occupations they really are. Madam President, I would like Finally, health care is about people's lives and health in a way that we unfortunately do not live up to today. As I said before, many people suffer very badly in the care queues. That is totally unacceptable in our welfare country. With our proposal, I am absolutely convinced that we will reverse the negative trend in health care. Our goal is not to shorten the care queues. Instead, our long-term objective is to remove them altogether. We should not have any waiting times in medical care that are not medically justified. I am absolutely convinced that other countries can, so can we!
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-246	Madam President, I would like The topic of the day seems to be care queues. It's perfectly natural. It is important to remember, I think, that the queues do not say everything about the state of health care. We do not know whether it is the right people standing in line or whether there are people who would need care outside the gender. Nor does it say anything about the quality of the care provided. Of course, waiting times should be as short as possible. I have never met a health care professional who has said: We would like our patients to have to wait a little longer. E ll r: V i does not want to give as good quality as we can. The absolute ambition of the staff is always to do the best for the patients. Care queues are thus largely a competence issue. We also know that missing operations and other things are due to the fact that staff have not been in place. For example, there has been no anesthesia - trained nurse. Therefore, it is important to work with the skills supply. It is good that Per Ramhorn has high ambitions for health care. The reforms he lists require substantial additional resources, as I understand it. Because we remember statements from leading Swedish democrats – for example that SD will bring down every government that does not give them influence and give them hell! I wonder whether Mr Per Ramhorn and the Swedish Democrats were referring to the irresponsible budgetary management they have just been involved in. Is that what they meant? This will affect regions and authorities that have unclear planning conditions, and it is actually about people. My question is: why did Per Ramhorn and the Swedish Democrats vote in favour of these budgetary frameworks at all when they think they are so wrong? Now they have come back to committee and said that they do not support the framework to which they have just voted in favour. Now they want to talk about their own policy instead, and it is a completely different policy.
i-3JndB8W1UnQnTsJ3pK4FAg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Kristina Nilsson! If I understood Kristina Nilsson correctly, she said that the care queues do not say much about the situation in healthcare. I think they do. For example, 20 patients at Karolinska University here in Stockholm have had their surgery too late due to care queues and lack of space. Several of them died because of it. A few days ago we heard from Skåne University Hospital in Lund, Sus, that nine people had been operated on too late. Four of them had died. This is under investigation. Of course, the care queues say a lot about the condition of Swedish healthcare. Kristina Nilsson also criticised our budget a little. She says it takes resources. Yes, that's right. We have financed this in our budget option. I wish, of course, that our option had been reviewed. We had EUR 6 billion more in this area compared to the transitional budget proposal. In such a situation, given the serious situation in Sweden, we must ask ourselves whether we do not have to vote for the second best. It was at this point the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. They wanted to add 3 billion more. I can honestly and willingly say that much in the budget that we voted for was very good. I would have liked some of our policies to have been included, because then it would of course have been even better.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-256	Mr President, I would like to Per Ramhorn explained how he understood my question, and he misconceived it. I did not mention that the care queues are uninteresting, but I said that the care queues do not say everything about the condition of Swedish healthcare. Of course, the care queues tell the facts that too many people have to wait too long for their treatment. But, for example, 25 per cent of health care in Sweden is carried out by the municipalities. There are often the multisick elderly. There is also school health care and health care in special housing for the elderly. These, of course, are also extremely urgent areas. They won't get there if you just look at the lines. However, I would like to ask once again what the Swedish Democrats want to continue to support an M- and KD-government. That's what they're really after.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-259	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for another question! Everything in Swedish healthcare is not bad. The medical results are good, once patients receive care. We'll be happy about that. However, the problem is that too many people do not receive treatment on time. Besides, the staff is good. Without it, today we would not have had the care that works. The second question I was asked was what is needed to support the policy of Moderates and Christian Democrats in the future. If this committee is concerned, it must be a good policy that we see for the benefit of patients and where it can be guaranteed that no one needs to die in a care queue.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-262	Mr President, I would like to There is a famous play called Kaos, a neighbor of Gud. One could also say that chaos is next door to the Swedish Democrats. I have a few questions for you, Per Ramhorn. It's a very trixing here from you. On the one hand, you are voting for a moderate and Christian-democratic budget, and on the other, you are talking about your own proposals. This goes right through the whole thing. When we talk about care queues, I am thinking mainly of staff issues. There are no staff, such as nurses, specialist nurses and doctors. To deal with this, funds are needed for welfare. You have just voted for a budget that invests more in tax cuts than in welfare. Won't it be very counterproductive? Mr President, I would like to I have another question about the Swedish Democrats' budget. Sweden will need 223 000 people in the welfare sector at all and specifically in the healthcare sector. That is why immigrants are also needed that we can train. With your view of immigration and refugee policy, this too becomes counterproductive. It is extremely important that we get these 223 000 people in place. Otherwise, it'll be difficult. I therefore wonder, Mr President, how the Swedish Democrats have thought about this. How are we going to solve the staff shortages we face? We're already in a critical position.
i-Gi385niAjUzyED722vHXcb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the questions! Of course I am presenting our own proposal, which I wish I had gone through. But much of the Alliance's proposals in this area of expenditure are good. They focus on accessibility, which the Red-Green Government of the previous parliamentary term did not do. The Alliance has introduced a cue billion. To be honest, I don't think it's the whole solution. But when it was removed – if I am not completely wrong, Karin's party was involved in it – it was a disaster. No one can argue with that. I think the queue billion is good when you focus on accessibility, but more will be needed. I hope, then, that our proposals will be taken into account on this issue in the future. We are not here to discuss the refugee situation and immigration policy. However, the supply of skills is absolutely important. I do not believe that the human resources situation in Swedish health care depends on our refugee policy. If there is a lack of special skills in certain professions, we should of course have a labour immigration. However, we cannot rely on refugee policy to cope with health care.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-271	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats and Per Ramhorn are picking up two regions where people have died in the cancer queues. I would like to point out that he chose two right-wing regions, Stockholm County Council and Region Skåne. I have a further question to Mr Per Ramhorn about the policy pursued by the Swedish Democrats, for example, with regard to staffing efforts. I wonder where human resources are mentioned in the budget that you have voted for. When are they ever mentioned in the 28-page budget base and the small basis that we received in committee? In the latter, the staff had also been able to correct all the errors.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-273	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned two county councils where people have found that patients have died. There's more. I can't stand to list everyone here. I brought up two, because there were two different controllers. In Stockholm it was bourgeois. And when this happened in Skåne last term of office it was a red-green rule. With that I want to say: one should probably not focus on which government it is. There is a need for substantial reforms that can help all county councils, quite simply. Then I have questions about the Moderates' budget, which we have voted for. I suppose that's a number of times in the budget on human resources policy. Among other things, they want to provide nurses with paid specialist training. There will be more hands in the care of the elderly with such services. I'll tell him I'm not an expert. I do not know exactly what names these are in the budget, but of course they are also services.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-276	Mr President, I would like to As a new member of the Riksdag, of course, I get many questions about my mission. Every time I say with pride and joy that I sit on the Social Committee, the committee responsible for the most important areas of Swedish politics. It is about how we take care of our elderly, how health care can be improved, what safety nets we should have for people who need support from social services, how we should do more for those with mental illness and how people with disabilities can live good lives. These are the most important areas. On the other hand, if I am to be honest, financial responsibility is mainly not within the Social Affairs Committee and the State Budget Category 9, that is, what today's debate is about. The total cost of healthcare, care for our elderly, support for people with disabilities and social services is 700 billion. The area of expenditure that we are debating today is about 78 billion. The state's contribution to the financing of welfare through the area of expenditure that we are debating today is therefore only one tenth of the total cost. The most important thing for municipalities and county councils or regions to have economic conditions to maintain a high quality is therefore not the economic items that exist within our expenditure area, but it is much more about the economic policy that the state pursues. Money for our common welfare does not come as manna falling from the sky, but it comes from having successful companies capable of competing in a global market and thus creating employment in our country and tax revenue for our welfare. It is therefore crucial that the state is able to pursue a policy that reduces the thresholds for people to enter the labour market, so that more people can take the step into the Community into the labour market, and that allows more people to move away from exclusion and to be able to work and live on their wages. When a person can go from allowance to work, it is not just a plus for the person himself. It is a plus in the public economy of nearly SEK 300 000. It is money that can be used for the common welfare. I think it is important that we keep reminding ourselves of where the tax money, which finances our welfare, actually comes from. The second most important is the general state grants to municipalities and regions. The budget for next year proposes a budget of 116 billion. There is a constant discussion about whether the state should support municipalities and regions through general state grants or whether it should be targeted state grants. The Swedish National Audit Office has repeatedly criticised the frequent use of targeted state grants. It's a criticism that a lot of municipal representatives fit into. Instead of directing our municipalities, county councils and regions in detail, the Center Party wants to increase the general state grants, so that municipalities and county councils themselves get the tools to meet their challenges. The state does not know best what efforts are needed to cope with the welfare of Tomelilla or Vilhelmina. The municipalities and the regions themselves know that. Therefore, targeted state grants should, as far as possible, be converted into general state grants. The state must govern health care, care for the elderly and social services through laws, strict supervision and follow-up. How the municipal sector then chooses to achieve given goals is best decided at the local level. The large costs in our spending area, which totals 78 billion, are the cost of the state part of personal assistance to people with extensive disabilities, 24 billion, and the cost of prescription drugs, 28 billion. As far as the financing of medicines is concerned, we have a rather strange structure in which the state finances the medicines prescribed on prescriptions, while county councils and regions finance the medicines that are requisitioned directly to health care. It is a system that has been the subject of strong criticism over the years. The pharmaceutical investigation has the task of proposing a sustainable, predictable and cost-effective system for financing pharmaceutical costs. Now that the final proposal is presented, I hope that it is a sensible proposal that can win broad political support. The second major cost in our spending area concerns the state part of assistance to people with extensive disabilities. This is about one of the most important parts of Swedish welfare. Personal assistance means that people with extensive disabilities also have the opportunity to have a decent life. There are not many people involved, but the personal assistance is for many absolutely vital. Here we saw a complete political breakdown in the last parliamentary term. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson made it clear as early as autumn 2015 that we need to curb the cost development of assistance compensation. In the same autumn, the Government, in its regulatory letter, ordered the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to stop the development of the number of assistance hours. In connection with the establishment of the LSS investigation, the responsible minister said: It was appointed because it cannot be seen when the cost of personal assistance increases. So there was only one focus on costs. The directive was also clear: make proposals to reduce the cost of assistance! Add other decisions against those in need of assistance. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the social security contribution for young people has been increased and not least of the clapping hunt that the left-wing government is pursuing against the assistance companies which are limited companies and which therefore need to have a surplus. Two thirds of all persons eligible for assistance have today chosen a private operator. If the government succeeds in driving away all private companies in the welfare sector, they will be directed to the municipalities. We have seen that the government's policy has had the intended effect in reducing the number of aid beneficiaries and in reducing the number of hours granted. It is not single individuals who are affected, but a large number. Moreover, those affected are some of the most in need of social support. At last, however, there seems to be a broad consensus in the Committee on Social Affairs on changing the law in force. When the law changes, the budgeted cost of government assistance will also have to be corrected. Another major societal challenge, Mr President, is the increase in mental illness in society. In our draft budget from the Center Party, we have therefore focused on this very point. The fact that more and more children and young people report that they are suffering from mental illness is something we must take seriously. At the same time, the queues for children's and young people's psychiatry have grown, and they are now totally unacceptable. In addition, regional disparities are far too great. We therefore want to make a special effort in which the county councils and regions that ensure that children and young people receive psychiatric care more quickly than today receive financial support.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-294	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Nilsson and the Center Party say with emphasis that the tax money we receive should go to health care, school and so on – I really agree with that. Unfortunately, however, not all tax money does, Mr President. The Center Party is also one of the parties that always say that profits in welfare are so very good. However, it is a question of tax money not ending up in welfare, but it goes to large companies, for example. In the healthcare sector, I can mention Capio, for example. When the Center Party talks about welfare gains, Mr President, they always point out small family-run businesses and so on. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the large companies, such as Capio, which is soon to be sold to the large French company whose name I unfortunately can hardly pronounce. It is clear that this company has specialized in completely privatised care. Mr President, I would like to Does Sofia Nilsson not see that when you get such a large company, it also risks leading to an even greater division of the Swedish healthcare system, which is already divided into two because we have a very unequal health with regard to class? Do not the Center Party and Sofia Nilsson, Mr President, see the great risk of such a large French company getting its foot into the Swedish welfare market?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-298	Mr President, I would like to Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party constantly return to the question of profits in welfare and that one sees a great danger with the development we have had during these years. I want to turn the question around. It is certainly a greater danger if these companies actually disappear from Swedish welfare. What does the structure look like? We can take an example from my municipality Östra Göinge, where we have two health centres. One is public, the other is private. If the inquiry into profits in welfare had gone through and forced the private companies to close, we should not for five seconds imagine that Region Skåne at the moment that the private would have had to close down would have started a new, public. Instead, we had largely removed 50 percent of the health centre capacity in a small municipality. That is the great danger in the whole discussion that the Left Party is constantly returning to. I could also give some thought to how you view all those who have private providers in the field of assistance. There is also a great danger. Instead of improving the quality of assistance and developing that part with the private operators, these people had instead been referred to the municipalities. Therefore, I think it is interesting to ask the question back to Karin Rågsjö: How does she view the development there? Why should those who are eligible for assistance not be able to choose which one should be closest to them and perform that care?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-303	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is one of the parties that spread myths about how we want welfare. We're not against these companies. We're against moving money out. I certainly hope that 7% of the profit limit would not cause the companies to disappear. In that case, it would only show that the only incentive for them to be in the welfare market is to be able to cash in the money. I think that would be tragic, and it would have been interesting to see. Of course, we want the assistance to be carried out by these private small companies. The interesting thing is the big win draw. 7% is a pretty fair profit, and it would be tragic if a company were to say that they cannot remain on the market. The county council is always there. Look at Västra Götaland! When a company took $1 million and left abroad, who was there? At that time the Västra Götaland region was there.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-307	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party returns to the fact that money is being taken out of the country, and there we are in complete agreement: that is absolutely not okay. On the other hand, we must constantly look at what companies actually bring to our well-being and what welfare would look like if we had not had our private performers. Instead of focusing on just money, the Left Party should sit down and think about how we can develop quality and set requirements that apply to both the private and public sectors. Sometimes we forget to look at the public part. Instead, they go with a large deficit. I think it is at least as remarkable that you have a large deficit that you need to replenish with tax money as you can pick out a small profit. Nor should we forget that you need to make a profit in order to be able to operate with high quality.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-310	Mr President, I would like to We have an exceptional location in Sweden. A transitional government has developed a transitional budget. At a time when there is anxiety and uncertainty, responsible politicians might have been expected instead of more chaos and confusion. But you on the right, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, could not get enough of just chaos. You may have been inspired by the Swedish Democrats – that is absolutely the case – in the approach of this very populist, nationalist and right-wing party in politics. You felt obliged to collect a 28-page budget. Officials in each committee have had to sit and work the weekends through to correct the mistakes that have been in this 28-page pamphlet that the country is to be ruled by. However, there is a very clear indication, trend and trend, Mr President, and that is all for Djursholm. That is how you can sum up this budget. Tax cuts will fix everything. We in the Left Party have kept to the situation and are therefore not adding our own budget. If you read your text in committee, it is so obvious that words such as that on equality and on equal care, which should refer precisely to the great inequality due to class, are not included. I will come back to that. Now I was going to talk a little about the Equality Agency, and I am doing so because a number of issues that the Equality Agency has also concerns our committee. The gender equality agency is therefore to be closed down, which is a total trophy for the Swedish Democrats and for the right-wing forces that have gone out hard now that it became known that the Equality Agency would be closed down. There have been incredibly deplorable judgments about the authority and its staff, and I find it shameful that the parties have not taken their Members to heart in this particular matter. The Equality Agency had taken over certain tasks in the area of violence in close relations from the National Centre for Women's Peace, but there are not many words about this budget. Where do these missions land now? There's got to be a plan for that, isn't there? Where do assignments relating to honor, prostitution and trafficking land? How are we going to work on these issues nationally, Mr President? Have you thought about that? Is there a plan, a thought? We hope so. Short-term education and poor economics have a negative impact on health. There was a time when equality was Sweden's brand, but for a few decades it has not been so anymore. Now we are the OECD country where class differences are actually growing fastest. This is a trend we can see across Sweden. Inequality also hits hard when it comes to health care. It's obvious. In a report from the Cancer Society, as in other reports, we can see that if the survival of low-skilled cancer patients had been as large as that of highly educated patients, 22 900 lives could be saved. It's eight lives every day. I would have focused on that if I had been involved in writing a budget. That is an important issue. Structural, targeted action is needed in various areas. During the last parliamentary term, the Left negotiated a series of reforms that had a signature, Mr President, and this was precisely about equality reforms. It was about free mammography, which provided the conditions for more women to examine themselves, and free screening for cervical cancer. It was funds for personnel investments, for example in the care of the elderly. If the staff have good employment conditions in health care and in care for the elderly, then they also work. Then care for the elderly will not become a career as it may be today. This was about reforms that would increase equality. There is not quite that thought in the budgets from the right side. However, you have a thought when it comes to removing funds for free swimming school and free activities during school holidays – the general efforts that have been believed in in Sweden during the days of the folk home. Instead, children should be allowed to apply for a holiday allowance via the social services. There's something old-fashioned about it. If you're going to be a little mean, and you think that I am sometimes, you can say that it's a bit of simple poor care over it all. If you want to go to swimming school, you can go to social services and apply for it. Half a billion more development of social work will be taken away. In addition, you are removing funds to the National Board of Health and Welfare's knowledge centre for unaccompanied minors. What were you thinking? Have you come up with proposals that benefit the staff, which are completely exhausted? We have a human resources crisis in health care that affects patients. The problem did not arise when the Löfven took power in 2014, but this has rolled on. It is a resource issue and a competence issue. We must have more money for prosperity, Mr President. It is a question of resources – in order to be able to make human resources investments, we do not need tax cuts. At present, 700 health care places are closed in Stockholm County Council. Do you have any good suggestions on how to fix the 700 hospital beds? Or the chaos at Sahlgrenska, where staff groups go out and tell how bad it is for the staff? Where are the bets in your 28-page budget on that? How will the queue billion ensure that staff remain in the workplace? I don't think it can. The embodiment has rewarded short, quick new visits. Now it's going to be something else. I'd like to know what. The staff in the care is the gold. That is not reflected in your budget. In Sweden, we have more and more people with mental ill health who suffer ill health. There is clearly a need for big bets in the first line. It is also a question of working within the guidelines that actually exist in the county councils. I will say one positive thing about your budget: you are investing in suicide. I think that's very good. In the elderly area, you're going down by 840 million. You've taken that from our personnel efforts. But then you'll come back and do other things. There's something I need to ask you about shelters. Will private profit-making companies now build these special homes with extra services for the richest? And what are community values? I don't understand that. How will a community host work? And how is this going to change the possibilities for senior care staff to remain in work? They're having a really tough time. Breathing and probe feeding shall be considered as basic needs. We welcome the position of the majority, but we would have liked the child perspective to be included in clearer wording. There are also other problems with LSS that need to be taken into account quickly. You don't have them. LSS needs to be improved, and that requires long-termness and a broad agreement. Everything in politics is a whole. The 28-page budget that is set is an unequal budget that separates Sweden in terms of class and region. But there will be better times that benefit everyone, not just the few. I would like to highlight the special opinion that we have written together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for exceeding my speaking time.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-333	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the commitment shown by Karin Rågsjö. Commitment enables us to move forward in health care. We need a lot of commitment. I will not be able to comment on all the questions that are relevant to be answered, but I will try some. Mr President, I would like to The gender equality authority was highlighted. It is not an authority for which we are responsible, but let me say this: we made criticisms through Mrs Pethrus, the Member of Parliament, at the time of the creation of the agency, because it was in danger of breaking up the activities that existed for women's peace issues before. We think it is better to return to the order we had, where Östergötland and the County Administrative Board there had a better position and a job that we would like to preserve. As far as unequal care is concerned, I fully agree. Health care is not equal even though the law says it should be. It is a task that we in Parliament have to manage, Mr President – to do what we can to ensure that county councils are good employers and do what they should so that we achieve the goal. The question is what instruments we use to achieve it. You can always ask what words you write first in a budget and what you do then. But it is clear that when we do not leave an entire budget without a budget reservation with some amendments – otherwise the transitional budget is in force – we will not be able to make comparisons, because it is not comparable. For us, the focus is on patients. We want to improve health care so that we get better health care. Then there must be better conditions for employees, otherwise we will not succeed in doing so. We cannot criticise the fact that we have detailed contributions and, at the same time, say that we should manage more from here. We have chosen a method where we say that we should achieve something. Then every employer in the county councils can decide how to do it. We need a better employer's policy; I would like to emphasise that strongly.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-340	Mr President, I would like to Acko Ankarberg Johansson and KD say that the Equality Agency has no impact on our work in committee. I mean, it does. Men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is part of our responsibility, isn't it? I think it does. Honorary violence is also partly included. Prostitution included. And I actually think that you should have the work of national authorities and then be able to spread it. What you are doing again is to divide the business so that the work becomes very fluid instead of ensuring that it becomes national and that it becomes the same guidelines and conditions across the country. I believe that it is semi-populist, Mr President, to remove the Equality Authority. It also opened the doors to all the hatred that exists against it. It's the worst thing I've ever seen – that people who work in an authority get so much hatred for themselves from the right forces. I still think that the Equality Agency should remain and disseminate the experiences it draws from this important job. Those questions won't feel good until you find another structure. This is about the Equality Agency. As far as equal health is concerned, I think that if the Left Party had done the same race as you did on the budget, that is, laid the hook for the transitional budget that was intended, we would not have invested 14 billion in tax cuts. Then we would have loaded with investments in the staff and the equal care. But you did not choose to do that, but you have put the money on queue billions that are disproportionate to the tax cuts.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-345	Mr President, I would like to I didn't mention gender equality work. It can largely be part of our work because it concerns social and health services. What I said was that the Equality Authority is not part of the committee's work. I think we fully agree on that. How to achieve equal care and good working conditions? Well, the state needs to be involved in supporting the work, both financially and through the right decisions. But we also need better employers. Today, we see shortcomings and great differences in the country that lead to leaving the profession and going to something else. In part, we have many well-educated people who could go back to health care and also to social services. But they have left the profession because there has been too much pressure for too long. There, all employers in the public sector must be much better and we, as the state, must ensure that we contribute with good conditions and the necessary resources. But Karin Rågsjö says no to more resources, which this budget means.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-348	Mr President, I would like to Acko Ankarberg Johansson and KD have voted through a budget that I really hope will disappear very quickly so that we get a budget that is more sustainable. It is actually a lack of resources that we can see out in the county councils when it comes to getting a good work environment for all the care workers who work there. This requires resources to ensure that they receive good wages, shorter working hours, decent schedules and more participation. Then we must invest much more and choose to invest less in tax cuts and more in welfare. I think so. Equal care is also about looking at the whole structure. Health care is extremely unequal in class.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-351	Mr President, I would like to I too think the commitment from Karin Rågsjö is good. It is wonderful that we are having a committed debate on this extremely important issue. Some of the questions were dealt with by my colleague Acko Ankarberg Johansson, and it is of course impossible in this change of line to deal with all the issues that Karin Rågsjö has. However, I note that in this speech too, the representative of the Left Party chooses to criticise the much-needed reforms contained in the proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats rather than to speak about the substance of what you want to do yourself. I also note that the Left Party has had a great influence during the previous term of office, a term of office marked by an increase in queues. They've doubled, as you know. Three-fold queues for child and youth psychiatry are the result of the last term of office. It is gratifying, Mr President, that Karin Rågsjö thinks it is good that we are investing in psychiatry. These resources would have been much needed during the previous term of office. This term of office has also been marked by staff flight. This goes hand in hand. When staff are forced to tell patients that care cannot be provided on time, the situation of the staff is also affected. During the trips I have made, it has been very clear that the staff of the private health care providers say that they have a much greater influence than they often say they have in public health care. With this result of her term of office – doubled queues, triple queues for BUP and staff flight – I wonder if Karin Rågsjö can say that she is satisfied with the influence of the Left Party.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-356	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the Moderates always have a line, year after year, regardless of the weather, so to speak: tax cuts. I'd say so. I am very pleased that we have had the budgetary influence we have had. We were a party of 5.7 percent, I think, when we went in, and we have got through a lot of good reforms. All these reforms, Mr President, were aimed at equality. As a whole, we have achieved 80 equality reforms, including in health care. I think it is extremely important to carry out an analysis when looking at the situation in the county councils, for example, specifically in the large hospitals. It's a staff issue. The only way to reduce and improve the flow of queues is to invest in staff and ensure that the specialist nurses needed are there and reinstated. It is only possible if they are paid decent wages and, above all, good working conditions. I hope that it will also succeed in doing so in this region, Stockholm County Council, where 700 seats, as I said, are closed because staff are not available. Mr President, I have to ask a question back to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall: how is this to be done with queue billions? I'm having a really hard time seeing it. How will the queue billions open 700 closed care places in this region? If I were in a position to provide funds in a welfare budget, I would spend a great deal on staff and not on this kind of cosmetics.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your answer! Had I been in Karin Rågsjö's clothes I would have been very worried if such a great influence had given this result. It is not a flattering fact that we have doubled care queues, tripled queues for children's and young people's psychiatrists, and also a staff who are fleeing care because they cannot cope with their work situation. One can say that the analysis requested by Karin Rågsjö was done by the voters. We therefore saw a historic shift in power, where the red-greens lost influence in large parts of Sweden. There is now a great responsibility on our part to ensure that we work to remove the queues. It also includes a great responsibility for employees and for equal care. We will take that responsibility, and that gives our budget other conditions.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-362	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have, I think, done a very basic analysis of the situation in Sweden. There is an increase in inequality at all levels: education, health care, the housing market. Then you choose to add to this inequality by means of a radical approach, namely tax cuts that benefit those who are absolutely the best. It's just like I said in my introduction. You could have a heading for this budget: everything to Djursholm. That's what's gonna happen. You want to increase RUT grants, because there immigrants are going to work, instead of training them so that they can work in the care of the elderly, for example. Would it not be a cleverer idea to use our tax money in this way, Mr President? Wouldn't that be more clever in every way? What do you think, Camilla Grönvall? You can't answer that, I'm afraid.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-364	Mr President, I would like to We social liberals do not believe in an unnecessarily large state. But we firmly believe in a strong and empathetic state when it is really needed. But when I look at the social policy of the last few years, I do not think strong and empathetic, but I am thinking kitchen mating– you know, these messes of mussels and animal bones that the 19th century archaeologists found and which they thought had arisen as well as of themselves. They didn't. These were the kitchen soups of the Stone Age people — obsolete messes created by us humans. That is precisely the case, unfortunately, with far too much of Swedish social policy, Mr President. It is totally unacceptable when these obsolete messes are also created precisely by people, just like the galleys. There should have been much more, in recent years but also in this budget, for the freedom of older people and for vulnerable children. Children who are victims of violence and abuse are not even discovered today, and as we get older we still have far too little influence over our own lives. It makes no sense, Mr President. We Liberals proposed many millions for vulnerable children and billions more for the elderly. In addition, we proposed SEK 100 million for a national strategy against involuntary isolation and loneliness, this loneliness that makes many people sick for nothing. But none of this will happen this time. That is how we have health care, Mr President. Employees must be able to change jobs, and sick people must be able to choose where they feel it is safe to get their care. We have to stop putting the system in front of man. Care must be designed according to the individual, whether she is a patient, employee or family member. We Liberals want that very thing. Instead, the care queues have grown. Some people have had difficulty getting care at all. Therefore, we proposed 1 1⁄4 billion to close care and care in time already in 2019. That's a lot of money. That would be enough for a prime minister's salary for 600 years if we had a prime minister. But we think it is absolutely necessary. We also want the state to help more in funding several hundred additional family doctors so that they can get to know their patients. We suggested a quarter of a billion more it that helps the people who work in the care instead of stopping them and putting the hookbones for them. Every employee must feel that it was right to choose that particular training during his working day. Therefore, we allocated an additional SEK 2 billion to give county councils time and advice to review the working environment and the role distribution in healthcare. Mr President, I would like to There is a group that works hard in health care but actually has no working conditions at all, and that is the family. We know that every fourth relative himself gets sick today. I sincerely wish that our strengthened family support had become a reality. But the biggest cuckoo in this area is still funki policy. There are almost 2 billion missing from both the Social Democrats' transitional budget and the M-KD budget to make it obvious for people with severe disabilities to go shopping, meet friends or even scratch themselves. I think this is a shame in 2018! Here the Liberals' budget would have given people more freedom. But, Mr President, the money is not enough for all our liberal proposals, so I cannot reserve for them here today. Instead, I am putting forward a specific opinion on all these outdated messes that we need to clean up, in which I write: for those who fall ill and need care, for those who live with a disability and need freedom, for children who get ill and for people who care for a loved one or need support as the old, our liberal budget would have made a difference. For there is neither time nor room for any kitchen mothers in Swedish social policy. The state should never hold people back or down, but it must necessarily help us when we need it.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-377	Mr President, I would like to We live in times when we hear strong voices saying: We can't help all people and be naive good-doers. We have to think of ourselves, raw if our own house – humanity actually has boundaries! Then I think it is more important now than for a very long time to remember our history and remember that what has built this country strongly – what has taken Sweden from being a country in deepest poverty to becoming one of the richest and most successful countries in the world – were the voices that once instead said: Let us take care of each other in this country! Let us build a common welfare, an ultimate safety net, a country resting on a basis of solidarity and community between people. And that community has built Sweden extremely strong. Mr President, I would like to Few things are so important to have with us when we build a good society such as the children's perspective and the child's perspective. Hearing children is not only a right under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also a question of quality. When children are involved in the work of social services, opportunities increase to understand what the child needs. And it is also a question of quality at a structural level. If we listen to many children, what do they say we can do better on the part of society to meet children's needs? We know that children who get hurt do not always get the support they need and that parental rights in Sweden are very strong. The Green Party therefore wants to see a series of measures to strengthen the situation of children. I was going to mention five of them: Mr President, I would like to A child's upbringing doesn't replay. That is why we must act to ensure that children are given the support they need. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about violence in close relationships. One in four women in Sweden has at some point been subjected to violence in close relationships. It has happened at home, in the place where more than anywhere else you would feel safe. Instead, there lives the fear, the anxiety, the pain and the anxiety. It is one of our most important security issues that all people should be safe in their own home. Children and adults in our country also suffer from honorary violence. There are estimates that about 100 000 young people are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression and are in some way limited in their lives. And we have to fight for those kids. Because children and young people, boys and girls and women have rights. We all have rights. There are no exceptions. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about the LSS legislation, where today we have a situation where people are going very badly. We must restore the original intentions of the law, and we must act as quickly as possible. We want to see a fast track for legislative changes that ensure that breathing and probe feeding are seen as basic needs. I see that we have a great deal of agreement in committee on this, which is very positive. But there are more problems than breathing and probing. There are also other problems with LSS that need to be addressed. It's urgent. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that in all work, not least in social work and not least in politics, it is important to keep a cool head and a warm heart. Some cold winds are blowing in Sweden today spreading messages that we humans do best to think about ourselves. But it is not by thinking about ourselves that we build strong societies. So let no cold winds ever deceive us that there is a contradiction between keeping your head cold and your heart warm! Because there's no contradiction.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-386	Mr President, I would like to Right now we have a situation in Sweden with doubled healthcare queues, tripled queues to BUP and a serious staff situation. The MP has been a member of the government and is therefore responsible for much of the policy pursued during the previous term of office. At the same time, I note that it is gratifying that the Environmental Party around Sweden chooses to cooperate with us in the Alliance and in this way takes a great responsibility for the future health care in the county councils. We've already had the embodiment up a number of times here today. We note that it had an important effect. It more than halved the long medical queues that existed from the Social Democratic Government in 2006, and it will of course be an important tool in how we deal with healthcare queues in the future. I would therefore like to ask Åsa Lindhagen a question: How do you see the queue billions and how do we handle and develop them in the coming period? It had an established effect. Not least, the Agency for Health Care Analysis is very clear about the link when it comes to how the queues collapsed when the queue billions were removed. Now we save, deepen and expand it and make sure it is improved.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-390	Mr President, I would like to I have the basic attitude in politics that we should be based on good analysis, that we should always have facts on the table and that we can use facts and analyses and draw different conclusions. That must be the starting point. I would like to say, Mr President, that after a few months in Parliament I am not yet the one who knows healthcare policy best, and this is important to mention in this context. But what I have heard about the queue billions is that there have been different views on the initiative that you now want to make, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. There is, as I said, what shows that it had an effect at the beginning when it was introduced, but that this effect has then slowed down. I think it is extremely important now not to make a type of effort that does not help to reduce the queues, if there is any indication that it has been an effect initially but that it has then slowed down. I am very keen that in all the policies that we are pursuing, we should build our reforms on what results, and there is, of course, a commitment to this in the party. The result must always be at the centre of attention. Words are important in politics, but that is the result. Of course, we need to work on these issues. There are a number of problems with the budget that is now being presented because it has not been prepared in the way it is usually done. I think that, from the point of view of results we must have with us, this is very problematic. I am thinking, for example, of the rapid conversion of, for example, the Employment Service, which is now included in the budget, with major cuts. This will affect social services around our municipalities, for example. We know that this happens when we make changes at national level. I would like an answer from you.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Åsa Lindhagen! I choose to take a positive view of this, because then I can advise Åsa Lindhagen to read, among other things, the report in which the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis describes how they have worked with the queue billions, how it worked and that it is undoubtedly the case that its introduction affected the queues positively, i.e. that they decreased, while the removal clearly led to the queue situation collapsing. The very situation in which we see that it had potential for improvement means that we are not only increasing it to more billions at the moment, but also making it much more effective. Facts and analysis should lead Åsa Lindhagen to a conclusion that she can support the queue billion. It is also important to be able to point out here that the very things that Åsa Lindhagen is asking for are included in our budget. LSS is one such suggestion.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-397	Mr President, I would like to I will be honest: I do not have huge confidence in the budget, precisely because it has been worked out in the way that has happened. I also took part in the housing policy debate, and there are a number of different problems with the budget precisely because of how it has been created. For example, we talked about investment aid in housing policy, where we have a number of different companies that have submitted applications for support. If they do not get them processed before the end of the year, their calculations will fall completely, and there will be no building of rental apartments. I believe that this kind of effect will be seen from and to the whole budget when it is to be implemented in the future. I am therefore very concerned about the decision that has been taken and, of course, should be respected. The transitional government can do its best in this difficult situation, but I would have liked the Riksdag to have taken a different path, including the need to have well-prepared decisions.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-400	Mr President, I would like to I was very happy when I heard Åsa Lindhagen speak the way she did about children's rights. We have adopted a Convention on the Rights of the Child. As we now review the Social Services Act, I see, just like you, Åsa Lindhagen, that there will be more of children's rights instead of parents' rights. Often this is exactly where the intersection point goes when we assess what efforts are going to be made. I look forward to this work, and the same applies to women's peace and honour-related violence. I want to ask you a question. Like you, I believe that we have a broad consensus on LSS and the parts related to breathing aids and probe feeding. I don't think anyone's going to change the money we're spending on it. However, I have heard other speakers today who have explicitly said that they intend to change this if they come to power. The investments we are making in Category 9 will be removed. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Green Party and Åsa Lindhagen: Which of the investments we make in health care and category 9 do you want to remove if you come to power?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-403	Mr President, I would like to That's a big question. We have a transitional budget now. It is not the red-green government's budget but the transitional government's budget. We have shown respect for the various types of principles that have been laid down for such a budget. I think we all agree that we all want to invest in different ways in making things good for people at risk. However, I sometimes lack an overall perspective on these issues. I have seen at the municipal level what happens when changes are made at national level. For example, if we cut back on Arbetsförmedlingen now, I am convinced that there will be consequences for the municipalities. That is why I think it is extremely important to have a holistic approach. This is an extremely important area for us, and it is also important for my party that we have a strong welfare. With regard, for example, to the Green Party and the Social Democrats, who have been in the government, I do not really believe that anyone doubts that one of the most important and crucial points for us is to ensure that we have a strong welfare and that we build a society where not least children have good growing conditions. As far as budget cuts are concerned, it is clear that I am very concerned about developments in society in terms of climate and environmental issues. There we are in the same boat all over the world, and you are making dramatic cuts in that budget. A society is a whole, and it's all connected. I am very concerned about the future there.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-407	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to what Åsa Lindhagen mentions about the climate, our draft budgets concerning the climate are still higher than what applied last year. However, as far as our budget under Category 9 is concerned, I hear repeatedly that this is going to change, and it is said to be chaos. Even now it is said that you intend to remove everything if you come to the government. So you will not allow the money for health care, for BUP and everything else to remain as we have proposed. If you already have thoughts, I am happy to listen to them, because it is interesting to know what changes you would like to make to our draft budgets.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-410	Mr President, I would like to It's a little strange for me to stand here and hear this about changing everything. This is exactly what the Moderates and Christian Democrats have now done with the support of the Swedish Democrats, which means that they have made changes. I believe that we will see the effects of the lack of analysis in a great deal of the very quickly prepared proposals that have now been voted through. But every person can feel confident that we will invest in this area. On the other hand, on the issue of climate change, I am very concerned. For example, you halved the climate life in your budget. The climate-related projects have reduced CO2 emissions by 1.6 million tonnes. That is equivalent to 750 000 car emissions. You want to halve this very effective policy. I am therefore very concerned, not least, about climate and environmental issues, which also affect the entire social sustainability of a society.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-412	Mr President, I would like to During the previous term of office, we have seen that the government has put forward proposals within the LSS. In my view, it was a total political accident to put forward a proposal that focused on costs. The government gave a clear directive to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to review the costs and reduce the running costs. This was done by the Red-Green Government, and there the Green Party sat with and was fully responsible. Not until now does the Green Party react and act on the issue. My question is therefore: how have you been able to sit in the government and put forward these directives which actually mean that breathing and gavage, for example, were not all of a sudden fundamental needs? I am very much in favour of the fact that we seem to have a consensus now. However, I find it remarkable that no more critical consideration has actually been given to what these proposals and directives would actually lead to. My question is brief: how is it that you have not reacted or acted in the past when there has been such massive criticism from the user organisations?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-416	Mr President, I would like to In a way, I am a little surprised by the question, and I can say the following: that we had a strong focus on costs and that it was in these directives, I find it regrettable. These directives have also changed, and that should have happened in the past. Now we are in a situation where I feel that we in committee have a great deal of agreement on these issues. This is ultimately about human rights. It's about people who are getting very bad right now having the opportunity to live a life like everyone else. It is a fundamental part of a good society. At this point, I think that we should now focus on what we can do to restore the original intentions that have been in the legislation. That is what we need to have our discussions. And as a representative of the Green Party, I have my focus on this. We want to talk about both breathing and gavage. But there are many more parts of the LSS than this that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have written about in their budget. I look forward to these talks. I also hope that the Center Party – that is my firm conviction – will participate in these discussions in a constructive way and that our focus will be on the future. What are we doing now to improve for those people who have either been hard hit or who have not been hit but who live every day with a strong concern that their life situation will change for the worse?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-418	Mr President, I would like to That sounds very hopeful. I am really very pleased that we now have a consensus. Nevertheless, I find it remarkable that, for four years, you can sit in the government and actually have responsibility but do not react and act in the past. The Center Party and the Liberals were two of the parties that went out and reacted strongly to this. This is supposed to be a right law, and we want to go back to what the LSS was basically about. This is mostly a reflection of the past term of office that the Green Party is still involved in contributing to what is decided, but that it then does not act more forcefully against what strikes these weak groups.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-421	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry that Sofia Nilsson needs to think about this. Clearly, there are more important questions to devote our time to. What I can say with determination and will always be my focus in politics is that we should move forward. We see the challenges that exist when it comes to LSS. There is agreement in committee that we need to bring about changes, as well as the judgments that have fallen at different times in recent years and have had a very negative impact on people's living conditions. I am very much in favour of our being associated with these issues, and I am also looking forward to putting the focus and momentum on the further discussions on this in committee.
i-86WX8LRhd6avHLmc5ftoVr	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal on Category 9. The results of health care, as many others have said today, are in many ways outstanding. At the same time, we have permanent problems, not least with long queues. More than 93 000 patients have been waiting illegally for the surgery they have been deemed to need or for the specialist visits necessary to investigate further complaints. The fact that patients do not receive care on time poses problems, first and foremost for the individual who may be forced to be on sick leave or otherwise have reduced health that affects life, the economy and everyday life. Long queues also pose an ethical problem for healthcare workers who may be forced to make priorities that run counter to both medical knowledge and law. Health care employees need to be more numerous to meet the needs and have a good working environment. It is important for us Christian Democrats to have more resources for prosperity in the near future. We are highlighting a specific issue in the area of expenditure. It is about LSS and the fact that many people have been refused assistance in the area of respiratory help and probe feeding because it is not considered to be basic needs. We propose that money be set aside for this and that the changes that need to be made be urgently launched, so that people get the necessary assistance. It is about people who are in a very vulnerable situation. There are many more areas that we Christian Democrats believe need to be reformed and improved. However, we are aware that we have not presented an entire budget but a budget reservation which has also received the approval of the House. It is a reservation that means that a small number of things change. Otherwise, it is in this case the transitional government's proposal that applies. In several areas of expenditure, we do not have any amendments at all, for example in the case of sickness and disability benefits. There it is entirely the transitional budget that applies. Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few words about primary care. It will be one of the most important changes made during the term of office. We need more close care, and it needs to take a greater share of total health care resources than today in order to achieve its full potential. We must lay a solid foundation for health-promoting, preventive work if we are to meet both present and future challenges. Person-centred care is what applies regardless of whether you are ill often or less rarely, and an increased primary care is necessary to succeed in this. We need care that provides continuity, that works health promotion and that is close and accessible. Through a fixed medical contact and a reasonable number of patients, the care team can do much more than today, benefiting both patients and the entire healthcare system. We need more employees for primary care, so we need both more resources and a management and management that pulls in the same direction. I believe that we can succeed in this, because in this area too there is a broad political view that we want to develop primary care. We have an investigator who, on behalf of the government, has submitted an interim report with many good proposals. Consultations have come in and processed, and soon it is time to take the next step so that we can move from words to action. That is why it is important that we can allocate 11⁄2 billion to starting the transition of primary care. Resources double in the following year. We Christian Democrats believe that the state must contribute financial resources if we are to achieve improved primary care. Mr President, I would like to An improved and extended queue billion is included in the committee's proposal. More parts of the care process should be included, and there should be more resources than before so that the healthcare staff get more colleagues and can provide patients with care within the deadlines decided by the Riksdag. The fact that care is currently employing more people for administration than for direct care shows that we also need to take seriously the reporting and routines that are not appropriate. Some work has been done to remove unnecessary administration, but more really needs to be done. Mr President, I would like to In several parts of the report, we highlight the importance of continuing the focus on improved cancer care. The regional centres that exist are successful and need long-term funding. Child cancer care needs to be strengthened, and the use of standardised care processes needs to be developed. I am pleased that, through the budget reservation that we have worked out with the Moderates, we can contribute to strengthening important areas within the core of welfare. There is also care for the elderly. We need to build more adapted accommodations, and the social part of elderly care needs to be highlighted. Not getting the space you need in an adapted accommodation is not worthy. State aid is needed in the construction of adapted housing and incentives to reduce involuntary older people's loneliness. In the budgetary framework that won Parliament's approval last week, the general state grants to municipalities and county councils are increased compared to the transitional budget. Although this is dealt with in Category 25 on Friday, it is an important part of all the efforts that municipalities and county councils make. They simply get more money. It's about the core of welfare. I'm glad we can end the year by giving more money to the welfare. I would like to thank Mr President, all the Members of Parliament and the members of the committee for their good work in the autumn.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-435	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Acko Ankarberg Johansson to the Social Committee and to our debates. Acko has not been here long, but I have to say that I appreciate Acko Ankarberg Johansson as a Bureau employee and as a member of the committee – although our political views will probably differ a great deal during the term of office. Having said that, I would like to mention one of the areas I talked about and where we need broad solutions, namely the LSS. For me, it is a matter of ensuring in a responsible way that the people in need of intervention can get the help they need. I do not really know how to express this, but sometimes I get the feeling that the ambition is to win political points for some parties instead of actually trying to come up with a long-term and sustainable solution. A long-term, broad and sustainable solution is what this group needs. I appreciate that together we have taken the initiative of having cross-party talks on the theme that we are not a transitional holiday even if we have a transitional government. Therefore, I would like to ask Acko Ankarberg Johansson : Does the KD think that these talks need to continue, and how should we best take care of the investigation that will be left just in the near future?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-438	Mr President, I would like to First, let me return to Kristina that I appreciate the cooperation. I would also like to express my warm thanks for all the work she did at the beginning, when I was not there. Many thanks for that, Kristina! I also appreciate the work that is being done together on LSS. What we are highlighting in this budget, which we get money for and which can be implemented in the near future, is a small part – an acute part. It is about people who have been waiting for months to get back the assistance they actually need. But I think, Mr President, that, as Åsa Lindhagen highlighted, we need to continue the discussion once we have read the investigation and know what it looks like. There is a consensus that we are not satisfied with developments and that we need to do something else. I am therefore looking forward to seeing that once we have read the investigation we listen to each other to see what we can do in Parliament to achieve changes. It's about finding that broad and long-term consensus. What we are now highlighting is a smaller part. It is probably so important, but what we need to do is to highlight the whole LSS so that it will be the freedom reform that it was supposed to be. Things have gone the wrong way in the last few years.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-441	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that I am very pleased with that answer. I think it is extremely important that we really go through the investigation that is now being submitted. I think it will contain proposals worth taking advantage of. We also know that there will be a process of consultation rounds and the like. Some things may take a shorter time, and some things will take longer. We welcome what the Moderates and Christian Democrats have put forward in the current budget on breathing and probing, but, as I said, we are convinced that there are other parts – important parts – that require us to be able to work together to make it good for this group. I would therefore like to thank you for your reply.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-444	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would just like to mention that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have noted in the report that the state needs to take greater responsibility for the LSS in the future, as far as the head office is concerned. There I want to send that we always have to read an investigation; to just go on what you think is not fair to the one who has been investigators. However, what the investigator himself has told me makes me worried, because there is talk of the municipalities being given greater responsibility. The municipalities are 290 in number, and many of them are very small. They find it difficult to take full responsibility for a group that needs a lot of help and which should have the right to receive it. That is why I would like to say that we have raised the need for the state to be present in the future and to take greater responsibility. This should not be passed on to the municipalities, which have very different possibilities. We believe that it is wrong with those affected by this important freedom reform.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-446	Mr President, I would like to Acko Ankarberg Johansson has talked about the queue billions with emphasis, and I think that is interesting. It sounds like Santa Claus is about to come and knock on all the doors and everyone is going to get pats as they've wanted. I would like to know how this proposal and the budget we have are anchored, Mr President. Kämiljarden – that a s it, in some way, but have you established it with the Medical Association, the Health Association and the Municipal? As far as I know, they don't exactly do their thumbs up for the cue billion. I am also thinking of investigations that have been carried out. For example, health care analysis has looked at what business managers thought about just queue billions, and 55 per cent of business and clinic managers felt that queue billions contributed to displacement effects. Now, Mr President, the KD and the Moderates are going to fix it so that it doesn't happen. Then I have to find out what you've been thinking. There's got to be a general plan for how it's done. Avoidance effects means that the sickest and the oldest end up last. Sick, elderly and multi-sick were not in the race when it came to queue billions the last time you were in the government, but now the elderly, the multi-sick and the very sick are going to join. How are we gonna do that? The embodiment wasn't anyone here at the time. How's it gonna be a hit now?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-450	Mr President, I would like to I find it embarrassing that a member of the Swedish Parliament finds it difficult that we halved the queues. When we halved the queues, many more people received care on time. That must still be the primary concern of health care. We will ensure that the methods we use are as good as possible. We think we need to improve them. We double the queue billions, and we make sure that the entire care process is included. But is it wrong for people to receive care on time? Is it wrong to remove the pressure that arose on the employees, which is today that you cannot choose the best methods and that you risk going outside medical knowledge and outside the law? That's not how it's supposed to be. We need both more resources and a better focus on people getting care on time. If people receive the care they need, the need for sick leave will also be reduced. Many people are waiting for care and do not receive care on time. To say that it is just wrong and toss away the question, I do not think it is good. We need a cue billion. To simplify and call it Christmas presents I think is not good– I know that Santa Claus does not exist, so it is very stupid to have hopes that way. What I think is the big question, which I have highlighted several times, is primary care. That is where we must ensure that we move from words to actions during this parliamentary term. We have to make sure there is something of it. We must ensure that there is not just hope in the interim report. We have to make sure we do something! Let us make decisions here in the necessary parts and make sure that there are resources so that you can reset and can hire more, because more people are needed on the team. We must also ensure that health promotion is achieved. We cannot do that with the resources available today. This is my big question for the next parliamentary term.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-459	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to primary care, I am completely on the same line as Acko Ankarberg. As you know, Acko Ankarberg, this transitional budget was entirely fixed in its form, so to speak. It is in this way a completely non-political budget, based on the previous framework. Mr President, I would like to Regarding the queue billion I ask Acko Ankarberg Johansson once again: Have you established this with the Medical Association, the Health Association and Kommunal? They were negative, and as far as I know, they still don't think this is good. Of course, I think patients should receive care on time, but I'm more doubtful about whether the queue billion will help patients get care on time and make sure that the staff stays in the healthcare system. I am also doubtful as to the under-pression effects that this may have, as it had in the past. How do you expect this to happen?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-462	Mr President, I would like to We implement clear and clear electoral promises. The Christian Democrats made progress, and we have made it clear that we are among the most important in terms of health policy. This means that the Swedish people want to see shorter queues. But when we are going to do this – we are not in government today, but we are politicians in the Swedish Parliament who decide what money should be spent on and where the emphasis should be – we have sent that we need to work it out together with SKL and others involved to find the right form for it. I think the profession needs to be much more in the future in order for us to find the best methods. Then I don't mean the profession at the high level in county councils, but the profession that actually meets the patients and that sees the flow of patients every day and knows how to do this in the best way. We want to see more of this work now that we start the new year with a better budget. It is a transitional budget of an unpolitical government, but since we are politicians, we were going to take the liberty of also making political proposals.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-466	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to be able to stand in the speaker's seat in a country that has a wonderful health care system. Medically, we are really top class, and we have employees who do a fantastic job every day, 24 hours a day. At the same time, we have quite a lot of challenges. I am, of course, thinking above all of the situation that has escalated more and more during the last parliamentary term, with doubled care queues and triple queues for child and youth psychiatry. In addition, the supply of skills and personnel is threatened both in health care and in the care of the elderly and in social services. We have a shortage of specialist nurses, general physicians and pathologists. Continuity does not work, and it is even so serious that patient safety is threatened at times. In addition, it looks extremely different depending on where in the country you live. I find regional differences unacceptable. We must have equal care, and it should not be the case that the care you receive depends on where in the country you live. We have a psychiatrist who walks on his knees, not least child and adolescent psychiatry. Our children and young people are getting worse and resources are important to provide. Moreover, the national cancer strategy is in the process of passing the ‘best-case' date. There too, efforts must be made. Digitalisation is another area, and we also have major, cross-cutting issues such as long-term financing of healthcare and care that we are going to discuss. We certainly do not lack challenges in this area. It is therefore very gratifying to be able to say that the budget that we moderated together with the Christian Democrats has presented points to precisely these challenges. Among other things, we want to strengthen health care employees. After all, this question has been discussed in the lines because these associates are literally vital. This is something we hope to be able to do with a moderate government in place after the turn of the year. Among other things, we want a national coordination and strategy on long-term planning to be developed and implemented in order to ensure the provision of skills and personnel in healthcare, which is currently lacking. Such a strategy would include issues relating to administrative burden, supporting the development of digital tools, requiring universities and higher education institutions to better prepare students for professional work in health care, creating opportunities for maintaining income for nurses who further train themselves as specialist nurses, reviewing the possibilities of developing a model in collaboration between state and county councils or regions with opportunities for health professionals for further training, and ensuring the quality of care with, among other things, general authorisation requirements – i.e. both private and public care – and monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, such a strategy would include the introduction of specific means of enforcement and the strengthening of penalties for attacks, threats and violence against health professionals. Unfortunately, this is a growing problem. These proposals are just some of the measures we want to take to improve the working environment of healthcare and the working conditions of staff in Swedish healthcare. Mr President, I would like to We have a transitional government, but we do not have a transitional holiday. This means that we Moderates and Christian Democrats want to assume our responsibilities and honour the electoral promises we made in dealing with the major challenges we have. Patients, relatives and health care staff – this stays together – cannot wait for a new government to come in. The challenges are too great. Care queues have doubled in just four years. Every day people wait for their statutory care. Every ten minutes a person in Sweden receives a cancer notification. During the autumn of 2018, more than 2,600 health care places have been kept closed, usually due to a lack of staff. For the growing healthcare queues, the Social Democrats bear a particularly great responsibility. It was the S-led government that, in one of its first decisions, abolished the queue billions – a queue billion that non-political authorities have identified in analyses the important effect of. Mr President, I would like to The patient should not have to stand week after week, month after month in line for treatment. I suffer with all those who have received a cancer decision and then have not received their vital care in time. For example, barely one in five women with cervical cancer receive treatment at the right time. This development is totally unacceptable. We Moderates therefore want to reintroduce and reinforce the queue billions that previously halved the care queues. We've shortened the care queues before and we're going to do it again, because we're putting the patient first. Mr President, I would like to We have a clear national health agenda, and we prioritise the following reforms in the budget that we have now presented: Mr President, I would like to In total, Parliament's decision means that the expenditure category 9 Health, medical care and social care with this bourgeois budget develops with just over SEK 3 billion. The majority are invested in shorter waiting times for patients, better working conditions for health workers and the development of close care, for patients and health professionals cannot wait for a new government. Let us decide on concrete reforms that make healthcare more accessible and shorten the queues now!
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-488	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by returning to this about the cancer strategy. The Government decided in spring 2018, not very long ago, on the direction of cancer care. This was done after having had an extensive consultation on the issues. The vast majority seemed to agree that what is needed is not a new strategy and to put the work on developing it in the focus of cancer work at national level, but the aim is to improve care for cancer patients. That is why we reject the idea of a new cancer strategy. That is not really what I was going to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall about, Mr President, but it was about one thing that was said in the speech: we are in such a hurry to implement and honour the electoral promises. That is something that I fully understand, because that is what all politicians want to do. But then I think that if the queue billion is such a big solution to the challenges of healthcare, wouldn't it have been better with two queue billions and that they hadn't lowered the tax so much for me and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall? I asked a question in the last line that I did not get an answer to: when will we begin to see the effects of the queue billion? The effect of the tax reduction is immediately after the end of the year. I doubt whether the effect of the cue billion will ever come.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-492	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that it is amazing that the main representative of the Social Democrats in this debate seems to be completely unaware of the impact of the previous cue billion. Earlier this autumn I had a debate with Kristina Nilsson's colleague Dag Larsson, who has a long and deep experience of county policy. When we discussed the queue billion he admitted that we probably need some kind of queue billion to deal with this but that it needs to be improved and changed. It is quite astounding, Mr President, that I must now inform Kristina Nilsson that it is not a cue billion, but two cue billions we propose the first year, which will then be exchanged up to three. It is very important to read through the documents so that you know what you are debating in this House. That could be good advice. The embodiments will look different from what they did in the first place. To claim that the effect was not that the number of queued people in care queues went from 120 000 down to over 50 000 through the design of queue billions is a lack of respect for the facts. Now we take this further, develop it further and ensure that all parts of the healthcare process are included, that we extend this to more areas. It is about doing what the Social Democrats have failed to do in the last four years, to graze the care queues. Kristina Nilsson! In all honesty, is there any plan on your part on how to deal with the situation which has once again arisen under social democratic rule?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-497	Mr President, I would like to I apologize for saying the cue billion instead of the cue billions. But I did not get answers to my questions, despite Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's rather long harang. I had two questions: when will we be able to see the effect of the queue billions? And why was there no reason to wait a little and use some of the tax cuts, which now, right after the turn of the year, fall to the richest people in society? Would it not be wise to use some of them to further strengthen care with a queue billion or perhaps a professional billion?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-499	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, I do not intend to put any great effort into getting Social Democrats to understand what they have actually seen happen several times, namely that when we lower taxes, it generates more hours of work and thus gives more money to welfare. The opposite is the case if you raise taxes on labour too much. What is important in this context is to be able to ensure that people receive care on time. The effect of the cue billion became apparent quite quickly when it was introduced last. With an increasing number of county councils that now have an alliance rule, I hope that we will be able to see the effects of the queue billions quite soon. This is an election promise for us moderates to live up to both here in Parliament and out in the country. Kristina Nilsson can feel safe in that, because we will do what we had to do last time, clean up after your care queues.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-501	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Grönvall spoke about non-political authorities in her speech. I want to know who the political authorities are, because then there must be political authorities. Care analysis conducted an investigation and analysis of the queue billions. 55 per cent of the managers and line managers in health care considered that they were absolutely charged with displacement effects. How should these billions now be dealt with so that the same thing does not occur? And how are these billions going to keep the staff, improve working conditions, improve schedules and improve the working environment? That is precisely what is needed. That was my first question. Mr President, I would like to My second question concerns the so-called leisure money, which is now being reintroduced. What analysis is behind that children who have income support should apply for leisure money instead of having a general grant for swimming schools and other things? What analysis, knowledge and evidence does this depend on? Those are my little modest questions.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-505	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Rågsjö for her modest little questions, something that characterizes Karin Rågsjö. It's always nice to discuss. As far as the political authorities are concerned, I stressed that it was not a politician who had said this, but that it was authorities and independence that had carried out analyses, and I believe that Karin Rågsjö understood this from the outset. It is fascinating that a summary of this debate is not the focus on our own political issues and how to deal with healthcare challenges without a surt-sa-reven-om-rönnbären discussion. Let me point out that we are spending just over 3 billion more than the government is doing on solving healthcare challenges. What we are talking about is questioning, among other things, the queue billions where we have an established effect. Let me repeat: going from 120 000 people in queues to just over 50 000 – that can't be anything Karin a success, can it? How else is it to be seen that 120 000 people in care queues in 2006 were down to just over 50 000 in 2014? No politician is satisfied until we have zero and no one in healthcare queues, but the effect is established. What we are doing now, and I have tried to explain it as educationally as I can, is that we are improving and deepening the queue billions and ensuring that it covers more parts and handles the entire medical course. This had an effect under the alliance government, and it will get back to that. What responsibility and what idea does Karin Rågsjö have for what to do about the runaway healthcare queues?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-511	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall forgets that the Left Party has supported the transitional budget and has chosen not to present its own proposals. We did not want to create more chaos; that was enough, we thought. But you and the KD did not think so, but you have been affected by the SD iver, so the more chaos, the better for the country and the country's citizens. Of course, I want patients to be protected, but are they protected in the queue billions? It's your general approach. In 2015, the Medical Association, the Health Care Association, Municipal and Health Analysis said that there were many executives and hospital managers who did not think it was good. The queues were shortened, but who were allowed to sit on exceptions? Was it the elderly and multisick? We don't know that. I would probably have charged more money on welfare than on tax cuts, if I had the opportunity.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-514	Mr President, I would like to To say that with almost 3.2 billion more in investment in health care, we want to cause chaos is quite disrespectful. Our budget for this has something that Karin Rågsjö's party should have had a greater focus on during the last term of office, namely the patients. It's about people getting the right care at the right time. It's about old, multisick and chronicles. These are children who are currently suffering in the BUP queues that tripled during the last parliamentary term, with the support of Karin Rågsjös Left Party. We are making these major efforts precisely to take the responsibility that Karin Rågsjö and the Red Green Government did not do.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-516	Mr President, I would like to It is anything but taking responsibility to present a budget in this way at a difficult time in Swedish politics and when we have principles for a transitional budget. Now you go ahead and slaughter the environmental and climate work, and the judgment of history will be harsh. We are also responsible for human rights in our committee, and this is a clear threat to the future rights of children and the existence of our whole civilisation. That is not what I was going to talk about, and I do not like that part of politics when we do not have the focus on what we are going to achieve, and also at the moment we are. I will therefore not spend any more time on this, but that is how I feel. I am new to Parliament and to the committee, and I think that social services are too absent from the debate. I would therefore like to bring in social services. A strong school and a strong social service are essential for creating a good society. For prevention and, not least, for the creation of a secure society, we need a strong social service. We also need it to meet children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We are not doing enough for children at risk today. Every day, social secretaries work hard to provide support to children who are in harm's way, but we need to take greater political responsibility in these matters. Mr President, I would like to So let me ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall: What do the Moderates want to do to provide better support for children in vulnerability?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-521	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Lindhagen for the question. I also think that the debate should focus on the area of responsibility that the Social Committee has to deal with, and the climate area is not there – although we spend more on it in this budget than Åsa Lindhagen's government did. Throughout my political activity, I have had a great deal of focus on children. That is why I recently mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs that we should work less in reeds and try to find common ways for, among other things, the Committee on Education and Social Affairs to work together with children in focus. We know that unapproved school results and exclusion are linked and that social services are the ones that take on. I look forward to finding new ways to work on these issues. I personally hope that Margareta Winberg's investigation will have a new bearing on this. I therefore welcome future discussions and agree that these issues need to be raised.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-525	Madam President, I would like People's outrage when reading in the media that social services have not acted is understandable. However, what rarely appears in the media is that social services may have tried to reach the family and children with support for a long time but that the parents have given up contact. Then social services can first act when the child is in bad shape that there is legal support for coercive measures. The child is thus allowed to feel worse and worse until the situation is so difficult that social services finally have legal support to resort to coercion. This is a question that I think we need to talk a lot more about. In various reports we have black and white that some children do not get help because the parents, who generally want what is best for their children, have made the assessment that they should turn down efforts. What do we do with those kids? How are we going to help those children better? How can we improve the follow-up of children who are in harm's way? There's a lot to do there.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-527	Madam President, I would like These are, of course, extremely urgent issues to discuss. We need to have much more interaction between the different administrations in the municipalities, but also connect it with the region and county councils and perhaps also government efforts depending on where we are. I have many years of experience from a municipal education board. We worked in such a way that we developed family centers to be able to find early support and discover children in need of support. It is about finding collaboration between, for example, BVC, MVC and the school. I see that today, for example, we often lose children during the transition to pupil health. I look forward to many exciting discussions in this area and in those reports, because these are very pressing issues.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-528	Madam President, I would like If there is something that I have really hard for when it comes to politics, it is when you use people's trust to do hip-hipp and magic tricks. The worst side of politics is when it benefits the very richest and is also completely unserious and directly unprofessional. A better example of this can hardly be found than the farce we are looking at right now with a budget reservation that should even cause every right man to blush. For ten years, Madam President, we in the Left Party, together with the disability movement, have been running a struggle in this country to secure our security for all and to guarantee our right to live a life like others regardless of functionality. The last term of office has been a regular war on people's right to their lives, a war in which nearly 2 000 people have paid a price so high that for most people it is not even possible to imagine what fate they have faced. Indeed, the attack on personal assistance in recent years is unprecedented. Those who have been our friends and enemies during this battle have varied according to who was in power. During the last parliamentary term, I stood horrifyingly many times in this very speaker's seat, shouting hoarsely at the merciless policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. With a great deal of shame, I had to ally myself with parts of the blue side. Among other things, the Christian Democrats have demonstrated their commitment to assistance in large words. But now I'm afraid it was just big words. The second they armed the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, they quickly let go of parts of their ideals. At the speed of light, a great deal of money was lost that was promised for assistance and is now replaced by tax cuts. Consider my surprise when it does sound like they have actually made a big effort for the LSS. They claim this because, in their budget text, which was presented in committee last Tuesday, they called for an urgent legislative change on the feeding and breathing as basic needs. The problem is that this was already under way. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we had already reached an agreement with that very wording. It was a fulfillment of a promise made by all parties. During the last minute of the election movement, it was realised that something actually needed to be done. It was a collaboration so that we would finally start together to secure the LSS and start the cross-party work that is absolutely essential for us to seriously save our rights legislation. Madam President, I would like After four years of high notes from the Christian Democrats in this House, I wonder if this is what they meant when they said they wanted to save the LSS: a spit styre of the money promised, a change of law that we already agreed on and perhaps also rather little respect for overall cooperation. That is not the case with us. Just as we write in our letter together with S and MP, there are more steps that would have been required to really secure LSS. I guess what that means for S and MPs will have time to tell. But for us it means that no one should have said that they have saved the assistance until we have restored the legislation to its basic intention. Adjusting for probe feeding and breathing is, by all means, a very important step that we fully agree to implement, but the basic problem remains. In order to secure the LSS for real, the law must be adjusted according to all the judgments that have been handed down from 2009 until today. There is no way that we will be satisfied before it has become a reality. No, in extreme right-wing Sweden, those affected by LSS are certainly not saved. There, each one of us who is not born with a silver spoon in his mouth and who at some point suffers the whims of life is condemned to the tyranny of class society. There we are drawn apart instead of sticking together, and there our security is fundamentally threatened. Because of the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, we now have a budget that can only be seen as pure and simple class contempt. It is a policy that fills the coffins of the already rich at the expense of welfare, culture, feminism, anti-racism and climate. Here you can see the result of the airing of the most reactionary and conservative forces of our time. It is air that we will do everything in our power to suck it out. We in the Left Party will oppose every step they take to destroy our country and threaten our common security. For us, the promise of an equal Sweden where every person should have the right to live a safe life with self-determination and empowerment is much more than empty words. For us, it is our very foundation. When we return from our leave, we will stand here fully ready to continue fighting for the LSS and to meet you in a regular class struggle. You can be absolutely sure of that.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-538	Madam President, I would like I am grateful for the questions asked by Maj Karlsson. There is only a small part that we can correct now. It is not insignificant because it affects so many people. But, as I said, there is much more we need to do to make this the freedom reform that it was intended and that it has been working as for some time. It does not work to say, on the one hand, that it is miserable that we have highlighted a number of things in a budget reservation but, on the other hand, to say that we should have added more. I would have liked to have made an entire budget. I would have liked to have taken the entire Christian Democrats' budget and made it the whole House's. But there was no support for that. We've picked out some parts where we found consensus with the Moderates. We are implementing those proposals. There are a few proposals in relation to the entire budget. I look forward to getting back to you. Not least we have highlighted the need to increase the flat-rate amount. It has been behind for a long time, which has led to a significant deterioration in the conditions. Today, when we know that assistance is a major profession for many people, while there is a high level of throughput, there is reason to review the flat rate and raise it to ensure a better working environment and more long-term working conditions. Don't think anything but that we're gonna come back! That is also why the wording on increased state responsibility is included in our common budget text. But to go no further now but to make the changes that we can make in the near future seemed urgent. I'm glad you, too, think it's important that we get it done. Then we'll take the rest after Christmas, and we'll get back to you. Remember: We can take Christmas leave, but for all those who depend on assistance there will be many days when they do not get the help they need. I am glad that we have a consensus on this.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-543	Madam President, I would like Acko Ankarberg Johansson! I have to start by saying that I have very great respect for the work carried out by KD during the last term of office with Emma Henriksson at the head. It's been a great help. What I find hard to understand is why you couldn't go all the way while you were squirming a little bit with the budget. That is what I want to highlight in this debate. Why did you not take a holistic approach and make sure that we went back to the basic intention of legislation? You had every opportunity to do that. As I understand it, you wanted to bet 1.6 billion. I think it was a 350 million bet. You have a legal amendment that we in committee already agree on. It is very important and is absolutely not to belittle in any way. But after all, more is needed. What I am afraid and very concerned about is that if you, g ud forbidden, were to come to power together with the Moderates, we will not go further than this. That's my concern. That is what I am expressing today. Nevertheless, it is the Moderates who have been the brake ball of the previous term of office.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-547	Madam President, I would like When Maj Karlsson had his first speech, it was obvious that it was a problem to get the Red-Green Government to make the necessary decisions. I note that the unwillingness to improve assistance has existed in many places. At the same time, there have been some difficulties in how to do it. I believe that the Left Party and the Christian Democrats do not have exactly the same proposals. What we had was to ensure that assistance is restored by increasing the flat-rate so that we have better working conditions. But that is not the case if you say now that you will return without reservation to the 2009 condition. In that case, we need to analyse much more in order to understand the meaning and consequence of this. We did not have a proposal to return to the 2009 condition. We had proposals to increase the flat rate and to improve breathing aids and probe feeding. Now we can take the first step, and I'm glad. But I want to do much more in the future. It is about taking the steps that are possible instead of standing in a corner and being angry because everyone else is doing something. I am prepared to do much to bring about change. This is a good change.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-551	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that we have a consensus on the need for cooperation. I share your point of view. There have been two brake blocks over three terms of office. It's S and MP. That is precisely why I believe it is so important that we in the parties that have fought for this issue, but which are less concerned, put a great deal of pressure on the larger parties so that we can get there. I know that what it takes is for us to return to our basic intent. The little changes are good. But we have to make the big change. We need to secure rights legislation, and then we need to go back to the basic intention. I welcome every step forward. But I want a real change.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-554	Madam President, I would like The debates taking place in this House these days are taking place in a very different political situation. It has never happened before that a new government still did not take office a hundred days after an election. Nor has it happened before that a parliamentary majority voted away a current government without having a ready plan for what will happen later. And this is the first time that the Swedish Parliament has taken a position on a transitional budget. However, the fact that it has not happened before is not the same as the fact that it cannot happen again. How we act in this situation may well create practices for the future. It has guided how we Social Democrats have chosen to handle this process both in the Government Office and here in Parliament. When the Prime Minister was voted out, we were given a transitional government that administers in accordance with the rules of the government. It cannot take political initiatives, it cannot resign and it cannot call new elections. On the other hand, it must submit a budget to Parliament within a fixed timeframe. Therefore, principles were negotiated between most of the parties in the Riksdag as to what a transitional budget should look like, what it should contain and should not contain. The budget proposal presented follows the agreed principles and was therefore not a party political product, but a document that would give a future government the best opportunity to present an amending budget with a clear political orientation. Our view is that it should be in everyone's interest to put in place a practice whereby a transitional budget is accepted by Parliament and that a incoming government thus has the decisive influence on the state budget. It is therefore regrettable that other parties chose to present their own budgetary movements – and also vote them through the House – in this very unusual situation. Of course, it is absolutely true that reforms are needed. However, the nature of a party movement makes it not the best form of government, as has been demonstrated in recent weeks with all the necessary clarity. The confused process we have now witnessed hardly lives up to the epithet as responsible or calm, and I hope it will not be elevated to practice. Both citizens and authorities have the right to expect more than this from parliamentary parties. Madam President, I would like We are in a situation where employment is the highest ever recorded in an EU country, labour force participation is increasing and long-term unemployment has also decreased. Not least, it is gratifying that women born abroad are increasingly part of the labour force and that the time it takes for a newcomer to enter the labour market has almost halved in recent years. At the same time, a large group of people are outside the labour market, despite the fact that the overwhelming majority of employers say that their main problem is that they find it difficult to recruit the skills they need. The solution to the mismatch is to equip the unemployed with the skills needed by industry and the public sector. This requires training but also active labour market policies. About 75 percent of those enrolled in the Employment Service today belong to groups that find it more difficult to get a job. This suggests that the need for action has increased rather than decreased. At a time when more and more people are assessing that we will soon be entering a worse economy, severe cuts in labour market policy appear to be even more short-term and irresponsible. The goal of the Moderates is to close the Employment Service and replace it with private companies. However, the experience of market experiments in the labour market area does not impress. I think there's a lot of us who remember the start-up slots. However, recent studies also show that private employment services are not more effective than public ones. Not only the administrative appropriations of the Employment Service, but also the appropriations for measures are cut sharply in the M-KD budget. In reality, total stops for new participants are waiting for emergency jobs and additional services. The entry jobs, i.e. jobs with 30% lower wages than under current collective agreements, which the right wing wriggles so much and rewrites in their motions, there is currently no legal support because, in addition to the fact that they cause other major problems. If the SD-supported motion of the Moderates and Christian Democrats becomes a reality, the result is a risk of increased long-term unemployment and a sharp increase in the cost of subsistence support in the municipalities. This is exactly the opposite of the desired development. We Social Democrats have chosen not to present our policy in this area in the form of a motion, because we believe that the transitional budget should have been voted through. At a later stage, of course, we will come back, hopefully in the form of a budget proposal and otherwise as a party motion and outline our political visions and proposals relating to the labour market and working life. As we do not support the Framework Decision, we are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in the field of expenditure and refer to the joint special opinion of S, V and MP.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-570	Madam President, I would like The clear line of the Swedish Democrats' policy is based on and aims to increase citizens' security and welfare. When it comes to category 14 Labour market and working life, this means that we want to make substantial reforms to achieve a situation where workers' security is prioritised while creating good conditions for a good business environment. Unlike many other parties in this House, we are holding on to the core of our policy: security and competitiveness. This means that the efforts we are making in the area of expenditure are not new, but something we have debated in this House several times before: we must make it possible for job seekers to come into regular employment, and we must ensure that the workplaces are safe and characterised by a good working environment. In order to achieve this, we want, among other things, to launch, in cooperation with the social partners, a proposal on apprenticeships supplemented by studies. When it comes to the work environment, we want to invest more resources at the Swedish Work Environment Agency and at the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work. We want to do this because we know today that more checks are needed at our workplaces, but also because we want to review and expand the task of the Swedish Work Environment Authority, especially in relation to the work of safety representatives. Perhaps it is time to find other ways of dealing with regional safety representatives and not give the union a veto. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work receives more resources to increase research on health and safety related issues. In order to achieve greater security for employees, we want to raise the unemployment fund and nationalise it so that more people can benefit from it. Disability should not be an obstacle to gaining employment. That's why we're also raising the funding for Samhall. Madam President, I would like Each individual is entitled to support and measures to enter the regular labour market. It is a mission that today is owned by Arbetsförmedlingen. Unfortunately, the agency has been characterised for a long time by low confidence in both job seekers, businesses and the general public. Results in the form of regular employment have not been achieved. Instead, we see a plethora of expensive, ineffective measures. In order to increase the service provided to job seekers, we now see no other way to go than to phase out Arbetsförmedlingen in its current form. It is therefore not a question of closing the Employment Service, but of dismantling it in its present form. We do not see it as justifiable that an authority with such low results should be allowed to continue to be responsible for supporting the job seekers. Nor is it justifiable to use 80 billion annually to finance this authority. This is the way forward to increase employee security: financial security in the event of unemployment, increased and improved support for returning to the regular labour market and secure jobs. This is at the heart of the Swedish democrats' labour market policy. As our framework exceeds that of the committee, we are abstaining from taking part in the decision, Madam President, and have submitted a separate opinion. I would like to mention a few words about the climate of debate in this House. I searched myself after yesterday's debate and asked myself if I could sink down to the level that some parties did yesterday when they behaved quite ruthlessly in this House. But I came to the conclusion that I cannot, because my respect for democracy and this House is too great. I'm not going to sink to that level. I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year – especially to our excellent staff in committee.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-582	Madam President, I would like I have a question addressed to Magnus Persson from the Swedish Democrats about the savings that you also have in labour market policy. I also asked the question in the previous debate on Category 13. What distinguishes you from the other parties is that when you remove people from various measures they cease to exist in economic reality. Almost all other parties – including our own and also M and KD in the budget now adopted by the Riksdag – have proper calculations. It is envisaged that one share will end up in supply support and another in something else. It's a normal way of thinking, because even if you want everyone to get a job directly or possibly disappear, it's not like that in reality. These people must have some kind of livelihood. I wonder when the Swedish Democrats will correct these billion-dollar holes in their budget.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-585	Madam President, I would like I don't really understand what Martin Ådahl means, because we have full coverage in our budget. RUT's been counting on it. Does Martin Ådahl believe that the parliamentary investigation service is not credible? You asked me the same question last night. For example, we have funding for municipalities, and we have funding for further training. Everything is in our budget. If Martin Ådahl takes the time to read it, he will see it. It was good that Martin Ådahl requested a reply, because when you look at the Center's so-called budget motion you can see that it is quite empty and empty. You want to get rid of bottlenecks, but there's nothing written about how you want to get rid of them. Martin Ådahl is welcome to answer that question now that he is standing here in the speaker's chair.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-588	Madam President, I would like We have been clear that, unfortunately, practices have not been followed in this budgetary process. There have been major problems with how the management of the entire budget has been for a government. That is why we have very deliberately presented a minimalist budget motion. Maybe you haven't read it. But we have previously had 200 pages of budget movements with plenty of footnotes and references to RUT. This is what I will come back to. Yes, I've actually read your budget bill, and I've read the footnotes from RUT. And I have actually noted that, unlike everyone else, unfortunately you do not have any further reference as to where these people are going. You don't have any real calculations either. That's also what makes you have a lot more money than anyone else: you make it up if you can use that expression. Madam President, I am sorry. I still ask Magnus Persson the question: Where in the footnotes that RUT has produced is it where people have gone? Can he explain that?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-591	Madam President, I would like I have answered Martin Ådahl to this. He can read the document, because it is clear what our efforts are. I don't have to stand here rumbling up numbers on numbers, because I guess he can both count and read. I see no problem with this. But I see problems with the easy text that the Center Party has. It blames and refers to practice, but practice does apply a little when it suits. It's kind of distressing. You might think you've been sitting at Stureplan over a cape hat and writing a document. There is a lot of talk about napkin budgets and the like here, and this is nothing that impresses me.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-593	Madam President, I would like I hope that we can maintain a good climate for debate in the future. First of all, I would like to say what everyone knows: since the framework of our proposal has fallen, we are not taking part in the decision but are referring to our specific opinion. We do not really want this way of making a budget in Sweden. That's what a government will do. Let me refer to the important area of expenditure we are now debating starting with a small quote: It was the time of wisdom, it was the time of folly. This is the classic beginning of Two cities of Charles Dickens. But it could also be an introduction to a description of the Swedish labour market today. On the one hand, we are now just over the crest of the international boom. The export industry is at high speed, and there is a sharp shortage of labour in many sectors of the Swedish economy. Tens of thousands of people are missing. On the other hand, we have the deepest and most difficult split we have perhaps ever had on the Swedish labour market. As mentioned earlier, three quarters of all unemployed in Sweden, 260 000 people, are vulnerable people. Many of them are born abroad, older people who will try to get back to work or people who do not have a high school degree. This is what it looks like in a situation where unemployment is based on one to be at the top of a boom rather high level: 6.2 per cent. Earlier today, the Employment Service announced that it has now given up and lists those who are furthest away from the labour market as hopeless. They should be taken care of by the non-profits or something similar. We can't have that in Sweden. We must have a labour market that is for everyone. We must not give up on people just because they are far away from the labour market. This is also a regional, and sometimes almost a local, cleavage. We who are here come from different parts of our country, and many of us know that alongside a thriving labour market and a strong business climate there are areas where the labour market looks almost hopeless. Many people I've met look me in the eye and say: I don't see any of this amazing job market. Where is it? Where is it for me? This is what those who have struggled to get into Swedish society as new arrivals and those who struggle in their locality to get back to work after getting rid of their work. If we take a closer look at the statistics, we can see that much of the small improvement that has taken place is, unfortunately, also based on extra services which, for some inscrutable reason, are counted as employment, although they are subsidised by the state at 100% and a little more. Now this isn't impossible, I'd say. Other countries have reversed such developments. Germany was Europe's sick man and had over 10% unemployment, which was among the highest figures in Europe. Now unemployment is one of the lowest there. But in order to reverse this, structural reforms are needed once again. In fact, as some of our opponents say, education is needed. That's what the Center Party wants to bet on. We want to invest in professional and smarter vocational training and apprenticeships – all possible ways back into work. At the same time, however, we must admit that this is not enough. We cannot put hundreds of thousands of people on the school bench for many years of adulthood and believe that this is the solution to our labour market problems. We have to open up other ways, too. There are four locks here which we have created in politics and which we must pry up with politics. The first is the huge lack of start-up or apprenticeship jobs – there are many names. Dear child has many names. It is a matter of starting at a lower salary for a few years than is tolerated today in the Swedish labour market, in order to get a way in and get a higher income than the low contributions that came from as unemployed. This is what is sometimes called simple jobs, but they are certainly not simple. Had we been like Germany, we would have had 100 000 such openings for people – 100 000 more jobs on a population of Sweden's size. If we were like Denmark, we would have had over 150 000 such jobs. That is where we have to start, and it is going far too slowly. There are those who are worried that this will cut other people's salaries in Sweden. But the amazing thing about this is that, according to the studies carried out in Denmark, these jobs actually raise the existing wages on the labour market for those with the lowest wages. When tens of thousands more people come in, those who are already in the labour market will have an increased responsibility, sometimes have to supervise and get a new and strengthened role. So we can actually reinforce those who are already there. The second lock is that we have among the highest taxes in the world on hiring them with the lowest wages. A large part of it is just pure tax and really no real social security contributions. In one hand we have these huge tax wedges on hiring those who are the toughest, and with the other hand we are using this tax money for expensive measures that are ineffective. It has to stop. On the contrary, we in the Center Party want to remove employers' contributions for those who employ you who are completely new to the labour market during the first two years. When you are at your weakest and really need to enter the labour market, small businesses have the greatest reason to hire you. It is particularly important, once again, in the small towns where many are struggling to enter the labour market. Then we need to increase mobility in the Swedish labour market, because that is how people come in. This is the third lock. Now we have designed labour law in Sweden in a very strange way. We tell those of you who are brand new to the labour market that you have the most precarious form of employment. If you are in the labour market, we say that you should stay as long as possible. The longer you stay, the safer your employment will be. And what happens? People feel an enormous need to stay for a very long time in the workplace, because there it is safe when you have your permanent job. And then one day the company cuts down, and then you stand there 55 years old and the union negotiates away your place in turn. Then you are at the back of the queue and will fight you back into the labour market. We must get away from that and get to what is called flexicurity in Denmark. There is a completely different way of securing people's place in the labour market by equipping them for conversion to skills training. People then have, which the Danish LO thinks is fantastic, much more chance to come back time and again in life and find new jobs and be able to both be mobile and stay at work and have security in it. The fourth lock on the labour market is the hugely ineffective way we use the resources we have to help the weakest unemployed. It is absolutely right that the Swedish state should help the unemployed to enter the labour market. We believe that in this country. But how can we use these tens of billions in such an inefficient way? How can we do that? A survey showed that only a few per cent of the persons enrolled in the Employment Service receive active help from the Employment Service staff to get into work. It's not Arbetsförmedlingen's employees that's wrong. This is a bureaucracy that leads people from action to action without any efficiency in job search and which has proved impossible to reform. The Center Party wants to redo Arbetsförmedlingen in depth. We want results to be rewarded. Bring in the independent, non-profit, idea-driven or private actors so that they can find new, specialized and creative ways to help people get into work! But make sure that the money is only distributed according to results and that it is greatest for those who have the toughest and less for those who are easier off. We shouldn't reward people just for putting people into craftwork and other mischief. They shall not receive any compensation but shall be thrown out of the system. Australia, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands have used every penny of tax to help especially those who have the toughest in the labour market. If we can only break these locks – the lack of entry jobs, the lack of mobility, the inefficiency of brokering and support and the high tax wedges of hiring – we can also move from grant jobs and measures to real jobs. Then the best of times can really be the best of times before the dangerous recession that awaits comes and it becomes much harder to get people into the labour market. Then those who are outside the labour market can enter. Then we can get away from what the Arbetsförmedlingen said about some people being so hopeless in their opinion that they can't even commit to helping them. Then we can really open up the Swedish labour market.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-613	Madam President, I would like I was pleased that Martin Ådahl mentioned Charles Dickens, who describes a society very much in the spirit of the Center Party, one may say, with free entrepreneurship, no income loss principle, many simple jobs and very strong, not to say existential, driving forces for work. But that's not what I was going to go into here. I reacted to something that Martin Ådahl said both in his speech and in the shift in line with our comrade from the Swedish Democrats, namely that they were very reluctant to present their own budget, that they think it has been a problematic process and that it is really the government that should present the budget, especially in this situation. What is somewhat surprising about that is that I did not realise that there was any obligation for the Center Party to present its own budget, as it did after all. It is the fact that the Centre Party presented its own budget, then reserved itself in favour of it and then abstained from voting so that we have the situation we have now. I would like clarification as to whether the reason for the Center Party's motion has been specifically that it should be a budget motion – napkin sketch or not – from the Moderates and Christian Democrats with SD's help that goes through. Has it been the main purpose of the Center Party's budget exercise, or are there other purposes, for example, to show that you still want to have reduced unemployment and so on?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-616	Madam President, I would like Regarding what Ali Esbati said about Dickens, I would like to say that I understand that Ali Esbati would like the debate to be just like in the 19th century when Marx wrote the Communist Manifesto. However, we would like to update the picture of reality and the measures for the modern era in which we live. As far as the budget is concerned, we have not been at all unclear about the fact that we wanted the order of this budget vote to be different. We would have liked to have a government first, and we would really have liked to have avoided this whole situation we now have with a budget that went through Parliament instead. But given that this situation has arisen, it is not the task of the Center Party to compensate in these votes for what everyone else is doing. We were clear that we had made a budget that we knew would fall. We insisted on its idea and thought, but it was like you say a manifestation of what we want but perhaps not with the particular emphasis that you have, Ali Esbati. However, we have been clear that we cannot take responsibility for what everyone else in Parliament does. We cannot compensate for what others do with our decisions. Nor have you, ever, done so in these votes or in other similar parliamentary situations. Everyone therefore has to pay for their budget and their handling.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-621	Madam President, I would like I understand that Martin Ådahl in his history description wants to skip the whole period of the labour movement's struggle and what it led to. I won't demand it from him. However, I note that the answer to my actual question was very strange. I have not demanded from Martin Ådahl that he take responsibility for what someone else does. I think it might be reasonable to take responsibility for what you do yourself. For example, it is agreed with other parties that it is reasonable for a transitional government not to present a party political budget but to prolong previous budgets, in accordance with principles that Martin Ådahl's party has considered reasonable. To come forward with a budget of my own, I cannot believe that Martin Ådahl or anyone else has had to do so. It's an active choice. And the results of the active elections are seen here. A conservative reactionary bloc has received its budget bill.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-624	Madam President, I would like I understand that Ali Esbati would like to attribute to the person he happens to replicate all the things he is dissatisfied with. But it is not, in fact, us who have presented the Moderates' budget motion. We have presented ours, and we have made it clear that we do not want it to become the kingdom's budget in the end. It is a way of presenting our policy. We know that it will fall in the following rounds. Then we have at least had to mark where we stand, just as the Left Party has marked in other ways where they stand. The Center Party cannot, although Ali Esbati would like to do so, take responsibility for everyone else's actions. Nor are we in any way responsible for the fact that the Moderates have presented this budget. In terms of content, there are things in it that we think are good. But that's not the point. We still think that the handling has been crazy.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-626	Madam President, I would like This may be a bit of a continuation of the conversation that Martin Ådahl and I had. We are gathered here to debate in a rather strange budgetary process. Then it'll be a little formalistic constitutional nerdy. But we must put what is happening in context. Sweden has, as has been noted many times, a transitional government. This is because the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, voted out Stefan Löfven without having a clear idea of what a new government would look like. The situation we find ourselves in is the result of that vote and the subsequent parliamentary process. What, then, has happened? Why are we in this situation? We are in it, although we have a parliamentary position similar to that of the previous parliamentary term. Then we had a red-green government that got through its budget after negotiations with the Left Party. But what has happened – a fairly great change – is that parts of what was previously called the bourgeois alliance have gone another way. They have started a process where they see themselves as part of another kind of right where the Swedish Democrats are included. That is why we are in this situation today. In constitutional terms, this means that we have not yet been able to have a government. This, in turn, has put us in an unprecedented position, namely that a transitional government has been forced to present a budget. It is a situation that has had to be handled responsibly, both to ensure the ongoing management and administration of government functions and agencies and to create a practice that can find broad support and become reasonably robust for future eventualities. We should remember that there are not very sharp constitutional limits to what a transitional government can do. The exception is, in fact, that extra choices must not be made. However, there are budgetary laws and a parliamentary order that needs to be followed. A budget needs to be laid. The country needs to work. There is also a memorandum from the Council of State Committee. It has been used because there has been broad support for it being a reasonable way of acting as a transitional government. There has been broad support for it after KU treatment and so on. Please note, therefore, that the outgoing government, which acts as an expedition minister, has stretched very far and hindfolded itself. None of the parties that form part of that government have put forward proposals for new reforms. Neither has the Left Party. Why? Well, we have honored a consensus that has been there to give the next government – no matter what parties it consists of – greater room for manoeuvre. This is a political cost paid to ensure an orderly process in a complicated parliamentary situation for Sweden. We've paid that price. But what has been the action of the bourgeois parties? They have said that what you have ached up at the Government Office are good principles, which you should follow. Then they went to their private offices and totted together budget movements of a napkin. That is how they have acted. It is, of course, both tactical and political. The aim has been to create a blue-brown reactionary block in Swedish politics. But at the same time you should give a shimmer that there is a kind-bourgeois bloc in Sweden with liberalism as one of the foundations – whatever that means. Of course, from the moderate side, it has also been about dealing with the panic and bitterness that has arisen when one has not yet been able to form an M-led government. For the rest of us, it is obvious why: the rather significant and in itself gratifying fact that the bourgeois alliance lost the election and that the Moderates went backwards. To justify their actions, the Moderates have barricaded behind a number of points of speech and tiring spins. One thing we have heard all along is that we have a transitional government but not a transitional holiday. That is, of course, correct. But the conclusions drawn from this are in practice completely up the walls. As we also point out in our special opinion, the relationship between parliament and government is a delicate combination of constitutional rules and revised practices. You can imagine wanting to change that relationship. It is perfectly reasonable to imagine that you want to move real influence from the government to the Riksdag and the parliamentary processes – fine! But these parties have hardly expressed this in other contexts. If such a type of constitutional shift is to be made in a serious way, it must be an orderly and thorough process. It would change the way the budget is designed, how it is worked out, what is to be in the budget or handed over to the government, how the ministries are to be managed and how the authorities are to act. These are important issues that can be discussed. But one should hardly discuss these issues in a chaotic process where the budget is submitted at a maximum late date. It is not at all an expression of the political will of the present government or government parties after the elections. The commissions' preparation process is subject to maximum pressure. And as onions on the salmon, the parties that say, hello, we have not devoted ourselves to anything but making the process serious and transparent in Parliament. This makes it difficult for authorities, the media and the general public to understand what is happening in this budget. We do not even know what is included in the proposals. It has even been a process of bringing M's and KD's budget into a common reservation – not that KD has gained much influence, but still. It is also difficult to see in reports and underlying motions what is going to happen, why things change and not. That is the situation in which we have been placed – by the overall bourgeoisie, I would say. Madam President, I would like This is a situation which, of course, also makes the link between government power and the budget strange and unclear. Here we have a transitional government that cannot resign. The transitional government cannot say: we cannot rule on this, so then we resign or announce extra elections. You can't do that. It is a government that, by definition, lives in uncertainty. Now, then, the responsibility is shifted to that government to solve some of the problems that you have not been able to deal with yourself. This is not how parties that should be allowed to come close to the government are acting. Let me just say a few things about the content of this chaos budget. The committee says that it wants to see strong driving forces to work, with lower taxes on labour income and with benefits and benefits that promote the work line and support for returning to work. ..................................................... The rich will be richer, the sick and the unemployed will be punished. That's what it means. We know what it was like during the eight years of civil society when, with great frenzy, both the unemployment fund and health insurance were broken without extending any rehabilitation even though the word rehabilitation chain was used very often. These are the general incantations and the ideological one-eyedness of this budget. When you get into the funds, you make substantial, obviously irresponsible cuts: 900 million on the administrative costs of the Employment Service and over 2.6 billion on programmes and efforts – this to scrape up money for their tax cuts, especially for those with higher incomes. Here it is interesting to imagine what you think this will have for consequences. How are we gonna do that? If you read the report and the motions, the answer is quite clear: you have no idea and you don't care much either. That is the tragic reality that we are facing. The committee wishes to begin by highlighting the need to reform the Public Employment Service in essence, we can read. That's exciting. That's what they did during the Reinfeldt government. The Director General of Powerpoint presentation showed you where the main competence was not to have been a social democrat. An internationally unique slaughter was handled at the unemployment fund. The Arbetsförmedlingen had to take the fall for the simultaneous strangulation of health insurance. Forced privatisations were carried out that gave us headlines of the type: ..................................................... The pilot companies were involved in entrepreneurial innovations that involved picking up customers by promising their own computers to financial crime and in some case also possible recruitment to IS. I would have had a great deal of sympathy for this fiasco if we wanted to change fundamentally, but we want to do the opposite. You want more of this. In other contexts, we are talking about the closure of the Public Employment Service, but it is therefore a question of privatisation with publicly secured funding for private operators, i.e. a full scale experiment in line with the procurement and out-source disaster carried out under the Reinfeldt Government. It is like wanting to create a New Karolinska in each county and municipality, but without medical care. It is not even possible to present a plan for this budget; it is a question of implementing these cuts and then of seeing what happens. The committee believes that the Employment Service should be made more efficient, it writes. You could have followed up with the words and good luck. In addition, it has not been thought that it takes some time to fire employees in today's Sweden. It's not like anyone might expect in their imagination, that employees can be fired and walk during the day. This means that the Arbetsförmedlingen may need to resign many more than is needed to then directly hire staff again in order for someone to work there in 2020. This, Madam President, is not to be the adult in the room, it is rather a children's party with an overdose of princess cake. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I and the Left Party have very strongly and for a very long time criticised a great deal in the work of the Employment Service and the measures that many unemployed people are offered or actually forced into. There is a great deal to be done to get a labour market policy worthy of a modern welfare country with a dynamic labour market. But then this road is not the right way to go, rather the opposite. This is a policy that will affect people who need help, and it will affect the municipalities financially. In turn, this risks going out even more over people who need the support of society. We will come back to these questions many times and in many different ways, regardless of which government it will be. With regard to what we think today, I refer to our specific opinion, which we have together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. But to compensate for some of the outrage I have shown here, I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-659	Madam President, I would like The transitional government has presented a transitional budget that is politically deflated. The aim was to provide as much as possible room for manoeuvre for the government that will eventually take office. I am therefore not taking part in the decision but refer to the transitional budget bill and the special opinion we have made from the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party. With that, I turn to what I want to highlight in my speech: youth unemployment. This is an issue that concerns me very much, and one that concerns many others. Madam President, I would like When the government took office, Sweden had such a high youth unemployment rate that we received financial assistance from the EU. The S-MP government has made a number of efforts to reverse the trend. A 90-day guarantee was introduced and has been achieved. Today, it takes an average of 53 days to get young unemployed people who are required by the Employment Service at work, studies or a labour market policy effort – this in comparison to 2015 when it took 80 days. The training contract is another effort introduced by the S-MP government. It is aimed primarily at young people who have no final grades from upper secondary school. It is an initiative that says that it is never too late to inherit a final grade, something that is extremely important to stress time and again. It must never be too late. Society must never give up giving young people a new chance. Another example is the coordinator the government appointed for young people who are neither working nor studying. The coordinator has gathered experience and promoted exchanges between government authorities, municipalities, county councils, industry, social partners and several other actors in order to continue reducing youth unemployment. Madam President, I would like We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 15 years. The labour market has been strong, and government policies are delivering results. But we are far from finished and more needs to be done, much more. Despite the fact that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate since 2003, there is a very large group of young people who are not included in the positive development. Darkness is probably large, but it is up to 160 000 young people who are neither working nor studying. They often get stuck in that situation for years. It is a group far from the labour market that is invisible to many. There are several reasons why a young person is neither educated nor working. However, a pattern is evident: the share outside studies and work is particularly high in socio-economically vulnerable residential areas. It is young people who were born in Sweden in the particularly vulnerable areas and whose parents are first generation immigrants. We must not give up on these people, we must not turn our eyes away. Today we forget them, but we must not. That is when we get the shootings and the tragedies that are taking place today. Madam President, I would like I have my own experience growing up in a socio-economically vulnerable area, but I was lucky enough to get the support I needed so as not to lose hope. Unfortunately, this is not the case for everyone. These young individuals have been abandoned by society and have lost faith in the future. We can't have that. Something must be done to break this negative trend. As I mentioned, research shows that it is up to 160 000 young people who are involved. That is why we need to find common solutions beyond party politics. Madam President, I would like Any young person who does not go to work or study risks being recruited for crime. I remember a mother from the mother's manifestation in Sergel's square who had lost her son, not to violence, not to crime, but to exclusion. We humans simplify and say that it was their own fault because they were criminal when the root cause can be found and prevent far back in time, in school and in the first attempts to get into work. What that mother said and that I carry with me today was: We live in alienation. We grieve in exclusion, but we are all responsible for the lost young lives, and we are each other's prerequisites. A more true meaning I've never heard. Madam President, I would like Another mother shouldn't have to bury her baby. Being a criminal should never be anything attractive or the only way out. That is why we need a more inclusive labour market. We need to work to combat discrimination and the structures that alienate people. We must work more proactively, invest more in young people and provide more resources for social services. We need more teachers and more adults who really take responsibility. Everyone may not become an academic or get those top jobs, but everyone deserves a dignified life. And everyone deserves a chance and an opportunity to build a dignified life.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-676	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I would like to begin my speech by expressing my admiration for Ali Esbati, who manages to stand in the speaker's seat for 11 minutes and 42 seconds without mentioning a single proposal or a single ambition of the Left Party. Sweden certainly has a transitional government, but we also have an intact parliament. We have a budget bill that won the vote. That can't mean Ali Esbati has no ambition, can it? Is there no political vision in the Left Party of what you want to do? Instead, he spent 11 minutes and 42 seconds--I counted his Christmas greeting off--wrong about the budget bill that's on Parliament's table. He also explains to the rest of us how a budgetary process works. I do not know whether Ali Esbati has reflected on this. You can compare with the speaker before me, Leila Ali-Elmi, who goes directly on social problems and has a policy for what she wants to change. This can be considered for a moment. I would now like to devote myself to my own speech. As I said, our budget motion won the vote of the Parliament. I do not believe that we have broken on one point anything that could explain that we have had the process that exists. Instead, a majority in the Swedish Parliament democratically voted our budget. Let's start by looking back at the last four years. This budget will certainly lead Sweden forward, but we can also sum up the time that has been. The last four years can be seen as a lost mandate for important reforms. We now need to strengthen the Swedish economy's ability to grow and create jobs. We need to take steps towards full employment. Not least, it is important that integration starts to work because newcomers can also get a job. The competitiveness of businesses needs to be strengthened rather than undermined by ever higher taxes. It is clear to us Moderates: Sweden needs a new direction. In our budget, we move from words to actions. We are doing what we promised our constituents. We have presented a bourgeois reform agenda. It is characterised not least by the common policy on which the alliance parties developed together and on which elections were held. It is about creating more jobs and strengthening competitiveness and growth capacity. Those who can work should also do so based on their ability. That is not the case today. We lower taxes on work so that it pays better to work. We are introducing a higher ceiling in the RUT deduction that helps to create more jobs. The fact that fewer people pay government income tax with our policies makes it better to educate themselves. This also means that many teachers and nurses do not have to see more than half of an increase in income go to tax. It's about how we get integration to work. How new arrivals are integrated into Swedish society is a matter of destiny. A job is important for people to gain power over and influence their own lives. However, the fact that more immigrants work is also very important for the Swedish economy and for society as a whole. Jobs and language are crucial. We will never accept exclusion and segregation. To equip people to enter the Swedish labour market we see as society's most important task. Despite a prolonged boom, one in seven of working age today lives on benefits instead of working. Many of these people – new arrivals – are at risk of long-term and permanent exclusion and dependency. The consequences of exclusion are great both for the individual and for society. Increased employment among those who are currently excluded is also important to ensure that their children do not inherit their parents' exclusion. Unemployment is now almost five times higher for people born outside Europe compared to people born in Sweden. Despite the government's goal of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, we are now in place 17. We are now further away from the objective than we were in the previous parliamentary term. Moreover, more and more people are moving further away from the labour market. While many people need help to enter the labour market, recruitment problems are large and employers find it difficult to find the right workforce. Our labour market is characterised by major matching problems. Almost all industries say the same thing: We find it difficult to find the right skills. We are prepared to contribute if only people can come to us and work. We'd like to help. In addition to ensuring that it will always pay off from contributions to work, labour market policies need to be adapted and streamlined to address the challenge facing Sweden. An important part of labour market policy is that the right individual can take part in the right effort to ensure both that the policy has the intended effect and that taxpayers' money is best spent. This isn't working today. One example is labour market training, which for a long time has shown poor results. Despite major labour market matching problems, this has prolonged unemployment. Efforts for the long-term unemployed also need to be reviewed. Today, thousands of long-term unemployed are completely without intervention or activity. At the same time, it has been shown that the government's flagship, extra services, is given to people who can be assumed to have relatively good job opportunities even without the efforts. During the autumn, it has also been reported that these expensive efforts displace other, effective interventions at the Swedish Public Employment Service. Arbetsförmedlingen's forecasts show that the costs of extra services and emergency work are estimated to be SEK 10 billion in the next few years. At the same time, follow-ups show that interventions rarely lead to work. The stakes therefore need to be more accurate. In our budget exercise, we take a first step in changing the focus on the expensive and inefficient labour market policies that the government has pursued over the last four years. Madam President, I would like Sweden's reform work must start now. However, it also needs to continue for a long time to come. The Moderates see a continued need for a major grant reform with ceilings so that it always pays to take a job. Not least in the labour market area, we see a need for a new and sharper authority to replace the Public Employment Service. Sweden needs more reform policy, and this mandate needs to be used to the full. That is our goal of full employment. We are now taking the first step on this journey.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-697	Madam President, I would like Of course, I understand very much that Jessica Polfjärd is upset that I commented on the report that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have got through with the help of the Swedish Democrats. I'm sure she'd love to see me not. I would probably have felt the same way if I had stood for the policy that is now to be drummed through in Parliament. I am happy to take on the task of developing what the Left Party policy looks like. I mentioned, of course, that we come back to it many times in different contexts during the parliamentary term. What, then, is our policy to reduce unemployment? Of course, doing what we know works: investing in areas where jobs need to come and where the needs are very great. The responses of the Moderates to this are reduced taxes. Jessica Polfjärd is happy to answer why they want to do that. Our view of employment and unemployment is that it needs to be conducted more by economic policies combined with social and gender equality efforts. As a result, Sweden is the country where the highest proportion of the population is working. What is the response of the Moderates to this? They obviously find it sad that this is the case but want less of it. Why, I wonder. What does the Left Party want to do with Arbetsförmedlingen? I said we've written a lot of long movements about this. Basically, we want to make it more an authority that can meet employers and job seekers instead of spending so much time on procurement and control. Instead, the Moderates want to refine it later and call it, as Jessica Polfjärd said, new and sharp. Why? one might wonder. Finally, it is a question of giving people who are actually unemployed economic opportunities and opportunities to survive in society. There too the Moderates want to do less. Why? I wonder.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-705	Madam President, I would like I have a little feeling that Ali Esbati has asked for a reply to my speech to tell you about his own policy. He asks himself questions that he answers. But I will of course explain what we in the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, want in our budget. We believe that there is a need for reforms in the Swedish labour market. We see today that there are many outside the labour market who do not have the right opportunities to enter. For example, we can take the extra services. We see that they have been expensive, that people do not get jobs afterwards and that they have also been double-subsidised. We believe that it is possible to do more and better things for the same money in order for people to get the help they need to get closer to the Swedish labour market. Many of the benefits and activities that have existed have proved to be quite poor efforts to get people to work and to be better equipped. Sometimes it might have been better if you had been able to get an education instead of an activity, and if so, an education that could have moved you from a position where you are far away from the labour market to a position where you are more employable and closer to a job. We know that these are measures that often need to be subsidised and that they produce good results. But the question is: What is the effort to make it work? We see that the extra services have been very expensive in order to give the intended effect. We are absolutely convinced that you can do better for the same money.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-709	Madam President, I would like I requested a reply because Jessica Polfjärd explicitly called for it. I thought it was quite reasonable to also contrast our proposals with those that the Moderates have or in many cases simply do not have. That is also the answer to the question of additional services, for example. It is possible that there are more and better things to do. But the thing is, you're not suggesting it. You're not suggesting anything. Then you propose a kind of general idea that people will work more if they get less money, which has proved to be wrong through both the long story and the short one, namely when you last ruled. The effect, on the other hand, is that people who do not have a job receive less money and become poorer. That brings with it a lot of other problems. I think it's a problem. I do not know if the Moderates perceive it as a problem that, for example, there are widening income gaps and poverty in Sweden. It remains to be seen what Jessica Polfjärd says about it now and in the future.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-712	Madam President, I would like We think it should pay more to go to work than not. We received reports during the year that perhaps even lost money by taking a job. If one in two in the same household got a job, you got less in your wallet after paying taxes than you got if you continued to be unemployed. It's an equation that we find a little strange. We think it should pay off to work. We think it should pay off to contribute. But it also means having the right conditions to do so. That's why we've said we want to sharpen the Arbetsförmedlingen, just like you said before. Yes, we think that you have a large and broad mission, that you have not succeeded in all parts and that there are more actors that can contribute so that people can get an honest chance to actually get into the Swedish labour market.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-714	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I have to say that I am proud and happy about how the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, have stood up for bourgeois politics this autumn. We have taken responsibility and are now ensuring that Sweden gets important reforms in place. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the Moderates very much for their good cooperation and calling for the Committee on Employment's proposals to be approved in the committee's report. When the Swedish people went to elections on 9 September, the Christian Democrats' message was clear. We would do what we could to replace Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and form a bourgeois government that could take Sweden in the right direction. We were the guarantor of a bourgeois change of power, and we promised to present and test the support for our policy in the Swedish Parliament. We have kept our promise, and we remain ready to form a bourgeois government. So far, unfortunately, we are being dragged by a wing-cut and tired Social Democratic transitional government. We Christian Democrats very much regret this, for the simple reason that people do not have time to wait. 100 000 people have now been waiting illegally for surgery or specialist care. We've broken a record in shootings. Too many elderly people are denied a place in retirement homes, and the defence is not given the opportunity to defend our country. The situation is frustrating. We Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish people deserve better. That is also why we have chosen to take responsibility by presenting a bourgeois budgetary alternative together with the Moderates. We have seen it as our duty. We have now proposed a double queue billion, so that the sick person will receive care on time. We are investing in more retirement homes, so that more elderly people can find accommodation. We raise police salaries and strengthen the chain of justice, and we give priority to a stronger defence. This budget option takes important steps towards a safer Sweden, where the care queues are short, where the police come when you call and where you can feel confident that Grandma can fit in a retirement home the day she needs it. However, we are also taking important steps in the field of labour market policy in order to give more people the chance to have a job and to make it pay better to work. We are still in a boom, and many Swedes are doing well. At the same time, however, we know that the labour market is indeed twofold. Not least, unemployment among people born abroad is far too high. This is because the level of education is often low among those who have arrived. But it is also because the rigid labour market and high entry wages are simply holding people back. People are excluded or caught up in ineffective labour market policies. It's not worthy. For Sweden to be a country of opportunity, as we Christian Democrats want Sweden to be, it needs to be easier to get a job. The so-called simple jobs, i.e. jobs that require low or only basic education, need to be many more. We need better job matching and better employment services. And we need to reinforce the opportunity for those furthest from the labour market to get a job. First of all, we Christian Democrats want to reduce the risk and cost of hiring by allowing lower entry wages in the form of entry jobs. Secondly, we want to abolish the Employment Service in its present form. We want to streamline our work tasks and release more independent actors who are given overall responsibility for jobs for the country. An important part of this is that we now streamline Arbetsförmedlingen's operations. We are reducing the Agency's costs and reducing inefficient labour market policy measures that do not sufficiently lead to jobs. At the same time, we are improving the possibility of jobs for those farthest from the labour market – people with physical and mental disabilities and the long-term unemployed. We do this by reserveing extra services for the long-term unemployed, and we do so by making money available in our budget option for more jobs in Samhall and raising the ceiling in the wage subsidy. Finally, we also lower taxes on labour so that people can keep more of their wages and that it will pay better to work and run companies in Sweden. We are doing it because it is right, but we are also doing it because we realise that it is when we have a world-class business environment that jobs can seriously grow over time. The budgetary options of the Christian Democrats and Moderates now imply bourgeois re-priorities in favour of health care, police, justice and defence, as well as a job and fiscal policy that creates the conditions for more jobs and more money in the wallet. This means a new start for Sweden. More people will have the opportunity to stand on their own feet, support themselves and make their dreams come true. The hope of the Christian Democrats is that more people will be able to feel hope and faith in the future – hope for a freer, safer Sweden but also for a better future for themselves and for their family.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-731	Madam President, I would like We do not take part in the decision, but I support the joint opinion of S, V and MP. I would like to dwell on the alexander hem that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats allocate to labour market policy in the budget that has now been won. The servett sketches are of great concern to those who are currently farthest from the labour market, and I have unfortunately seen very little in this exercise about what the alternatives are. This means that 2.6 billion less will be given to labour market policy measures, this when, on the one hand, we are facing a recession – no one can say when it comes, only that it will – and, on the other hand, it has a labour market that is quite difficult, especially for certain groups. I contacted the municipalities in my constituency when it came to finding out that this budget would have a majority in this House and asked for examples of what it looks like in terms of additional services and modern preparedness jobs. Östergötland is a county where you have worked very actively with these two efforts. We have done this through a conscious political effort, in which we were very clear at an early stage that we should make good use of these measures. We were quick to create measures within the Com munity, the region and, not least, state authorities based in Östergötland. I have two examples that I wanted to tell you about to give a picture to representatives Jessica Polfjärd from the Moderates, Christian Carlsson from the Christian Democrats and Magnus Persson from the Swedish Democrats, who are behind this napkin sketch for budget reservation. I would then like answers from the three of you as to what information we can give to the participants. A woman came from Somalia in 2006 with a general upper secondary school education. She studied Swedish and attended a welding course but did not enter the labour market for about nine years. In 2016, she received a job at an extra position as a teacher assistant and resource in the classroom at a school in my municipality of Motala. Since we have quite a few new arrivals in the municipality, her language skills were also desirable. It went great for the woman, and when the extra service ended, the headmaster chose to continue her employment with a new job, which was part of labour market policy. She has now moved on to studies with the aim of training as a preschool teacher. I have another example, a man who worked in the industry in Motala for many years. The steel bath in industry and the conversion took place between 2004 and 2008, when many industrial workers went into unemployment. Many were retrained to the public sector and in other professions, such as services and others. This man was over 50 years old and unemployed. He was Swedish-born but did not have any education other than elementary school. He was invited to join an extra position as a teacher assistant and help at one of the municipality's upper secondary schools. He did this very well, and it meant that he was discharged from Arbetsförmedlingen and was given the opportunity to get a paid open-ended position as a teacher assistant. There are many good examples of life stories in our municipalities and regions. I would advise the representatives of the three listed parties to contact your comrades at home, where there are extra services and modern emergency work, to get a story from the real life of your constituencies. Then you will hear about several successful examples of extra services and modern standby jobs. We are talking about some 20 000 people who are currently involved in these measures. The proposal for a budgetary framework that has now been voted through will put an end to new preparedness jobs and additional services. It will also mean that the old and time-limited will gradually end. This is a policy that is very ominous, especially when at the same time we have a group on the labour market that is finding it difficult to enter. This is partly about unemployed people who have been away from the labour market for a long time and also about new arrivals. I have read the budget reservation very carefully to try to see if you have perhaps added funds to the local government sector elsewhere. Then I see to my horror that the reservation also removes 500 million that the municipalities have received in order to combat long-term unemployment. This is therefore being done in parallel with the abolition of two effective measures. I also wanted to mention briefly something about Arbetsförmedlingen, which also makes me quite terrified. The employment agency as a public authority can have many views on. We have, and we have. There's a labour market investigation going on. In the committee a few months ago, we had the investigator, who told us how far we had come. The final report will be delivered at the end of January. To do as early as 2019 the alexander hem as you do because a third of the staff of today about 14,000 people are in danger of being laid off is very strange to me. I therefore have a few questions for Jessica Polfjärd, Christian Carlsson and Magnus Persson. What kind of activities at Arbetsförmedlingen should be discontinued? What has been done that has not been effective? What should the structure look like forward? Is it the local offices in our 290 municipalities that are going to change, or where is the change going to take place? I believe that some sort of indication is expected in terms of how this is to be handled and what the future plan is. With regard to the measures that I have talked about, both labour market policy measures and, not least, the work of the Public Employment Service, today the vast majority of municipalities have good and effective cooperation with the Public Employment Service. It is a collaboration where social services, the municipality, Försäkringskassan, our coordination associations and all sorts of things work together and closely together to be able to work with the long-term unemployed in particular. What I see this will lead to – that's my own conclusion – is increased costs for the municipalities for the support for this particular group of people. Nor should we forget the suffering that individuals will end up in. With that, Madam President, I refer to the previous special opinion of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. I expect answers to my questions. I'm looking forward to that.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-752	Madam President, I would like Of course I will try to answer the questions raised here. What I think is worth bearing in mind is that even with the proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we have the second highest level ever when it comes to spending money on labour market policy measures. As I understood, the example we heard here was that of a friend from Somalia who had been unemployed for nine years, that is, long-term unemployed. As far as the long-term unemployed are concerned, we want to reserve additional services for that particular target group. Today, too many people get the wrong kind of action when they turn to Arbetsförmedlingen, which causes this. It slows down the possibility for people to get to work. The person in the example we heard is now studying for preschool teachers. Then we can announce that with our budget that person will have the opportunity to work as a preschool teacher where there is time for the children, because thanks to M's and KD's budget we are now putting money into smaller children's groups in preschool. We can also tell you that when you get to work and work as a preschool teacher you will have to keep more of your salary and get easier to stand on your own feet and plan the future with your family.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-756	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian, for the answer – although I did not really follow in all its parts! There are a little different groupings among those who are long-term unemployed; I think that is important to remember. The two examples I gave are successful examples. There are those who have a much more difficult time, and for them the extra services in particular have been a good measure. People have had contact with the labour market, come close to a workplace, learned how social life is in a workplace and not least been able to tell children and relatives and others that they have a job to go to. I don't think we should forget that. I believe that what you are doing now in the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats will have a labour market policy that has been successful in breaking down. It has cost money, but it costs even more money if you do nothing and people end up in vulnerable areas with all the risks of being excluded from society. I also heard in your post, Christian, about the investment in Samhall and salary contributions. These are measures that I think are reasonable. That is what we have had in our budget in the past, especially wage subsidies. But there are two different groups. The labour market and, in particular, those currently in the long-term unemployed group look different. They are different individuals, but above all they have different needs. Not everyone will be able to be educated away. Not everyone will be able to enter into the actions that exist within Samhall's bay and sturgeon. Today it is also difficult to get out when it comes to wage subsidies and other things. There, these efforts have been successful. My question to Christian is: What is your plan to work with this group in the future?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-761	Madam President, I would like The Moderates and Christian Democrats therefore spend SEK 10.3 billion on labour market policy programmes and measures. That's a lot of money. It is not just us who have condemned your actions as ineffective. So does the National Audit Office. Somewhere you might think that it is reasonable to clean up in inefficient systems that do not work in a way that equals what they cost. My question is: What do the Social Democrats want to do when long-term unemployment grows and Sweden has the biggest employment gap between domestic and foreign born? We believe that more than inefficient labour market policy measures are needed, for example, to allow lower entry wages. But the Social Democrats are doing nothing.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-764	Madam President, I would like No, we don't believe in lower entry wages. Above all, we should not legislate on this in Parliament, but it is a matter between the parties. The Saltsjöbad Agreement turned 80 the other day. The letter from the parties there was clear: Don't go in and touch entry wages, contract formation or other parts! We deal with that as partners. We have said that we are prepared to find start-up jobs. Work is under way on this as part of doing so between the parties. It's one way to move on. There are many other elements in which we would like to see the measures we have put in place – the fact that more people are being added to the labour market policy that exists, but at the same time, of course, changes are being made if needs change.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-768	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are abstaining in the vote, as our budgetary framework exceeds the committee's proposal. However, we have submitted a separate opinion. During the 1800s Sweden went from agricultural society to industrial society. People moved into the cities, and new industrial cities were formed. Sweden got more workers and fewer farmers. In agriculture you were your own employer, but the workers' situation was very poor. The working days could last from 10 to 13 hours. In industry you had to be effective, otherwise you might lose your job. The working environment in the factories was also very poor. It was poor lighting and often poor hygiene. This led to the spread of disease. Occupational injuries were common because many machines were dangerous and lacked protection. The workers did not earn well and therefore often lived very crowdedly. All the poor were crowded in the same place instead of living in houses in the woods as they did before. This highlighted the social problems, which became increasingly apparent. Fortunately, today we have a completely different situation, and the Swedish labour market is world-class. At the end of the 19th century, the first unemployment insurance scheme was designed. It was a fantastic development and an important step in the formation of the Swedish model, which we often take for granted today. Madam President, I would like I live in Lerum just outside Gothenburg. Every day I can talk to my children through both sound and image, which is a fantastic digital development. It eases the loss and makes my work here in Parliament much easier. However, rapid digitalisation has made the world less and more globalised and urbanised, which of course has an impact on the labour market. The challenges have changed, and legislation and regulation need to follow in order to achieve a balance in an increasingly dynamic and flexible environment. As I said, this also applies to labour market policy. On a couple of occasions I have had the privilege of living in other parts of the world, both in Iceland and in developing countries, and it has helped me to understand the fantastic privilege of living in Sweden, with a fantastic welfare and a Swedish model that makes us have an incredible safety net to land in. Today, for us politicians, it is important to maintain the balance between the Swedish model and the challenges we face in global change. The challenge will be to speed up slowly, while at the same time taking a pragmatic approach to the decisions to be taken. I think it is important to keep the foundations that work well, while at the same time developing and reforming what can be better – all in order for the people we represent to receive dividends from what we jointly contribute in the form of tax and social commitment, in the short but also in the long term. Unemployment insurance is a strong foundation for the security of the individual. I know this not least from my own experience; I myself have had to take advantage of the ministry. Today, the Swedish unemployment fund finances 90 percent with tax revenue, while 10 percent is financed with membership fees. Why, then, should not all those who work and contribute to our well-being be able to benefit from the security provided by insurance? Well, the answer is that the unemployment fund and the trade unions have too strong links with each other, and that is not constructive, we think. Unemployment insurance should be separate from the trade unions by definition today, while we receive reports that the difference is not always as clear as it should be. We find this worrying and, in substance, wrong. Therefore, in our committee motion, we are proposing that the unemployment fund should be compulsory and accessible to the whole population through state funding. We believe that this is more fair and better distributed. Madam President, I would like Everything indicates that we are about to face a recession, and then society needs to show that we are capable of creating and providing security to our citizens. Would it not be safer for those who risk losing their job to know that they can look for work locally and do not have to put their family's security on the edge? For those who are involved in community life in local areas and drive their children to various activities, sports events and other things, it can have a devastating effect to have to move or commute to another location. This is an example that shows why we think it is important to make it clearer that the unemployed person is given a chance to look for a new job locally during the first 100 days. Being unemployed has major consequences for the individual, and so we want to work to increase the compensation ceiling from 910 SEK to 1,200 SEK per day during the first 100 days. This is an important measure for a more secure life for workers.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-782	Madam President, I would like Much can be said about the Swedish labour market. If you ask the Social Democrats, it works more or less excellently, and they then highlight the Swedish model with strong partners in the labour market as the given explanation. But is this really a true statement of reality? Is all peace and joy, or are there flaws that are spoken of quieter? Madam President, I would like The labour market is a difficult area to debate without affecting other areas of expenditure. The debate is usually reduced to issues such as the tax reduction for trade union contributions, the work agency's being or not being, or the traditional bourgeois parties wanting to abolish employment security for ordinary people. Some people lift their eyes and mention the thresholds that surround our labour market. From time to time, the fact that we have the lowest proportion of simpler jobs – not jobs that are easy in themselves, but jobs with lower formal qualifications – is also highlighted in the EU. This is, to be precise, about half as many as in our neighbours Denmark and Germany. But the problems don't stop there. Despite a fiery boom, hundreds of thousands of people are outside the regular labour market. Many companies in several sectors are at the same time screaming for skilled labour. Don't you think it's a little weird? And what happens when the economic cycle turns downwards? Where's the alert for that? Are we getting more labour market policy programmes with new clever names? From the left, it is said that the problem of labour market mismatches can be solved with an investment in education and training. But is there really a lack of training that is the problem today? It is simply not possible to educate unemployment. Of course, statistics can be temporarily refined with additional services, but the basic problems will persist. I believe that the problems are more of a structural nature. The costs of hiring are simply too high in Sweden, and the incentives for people to move from grants to a first job are too small. We also have poor labour market mobility, although the current economic situation has improved somewhat in recent years. Misunderstand me – I am not against the Swedish model. I myself have worked in the party world and see the importance and benefits of the parties being responsible for the negotiations. But, with this, politics cannot abdicate its responsibilities. There is much we could do here in this House to help the social partners develop the labour market. We simply need to upgrade the Swedish model to 2.0. But it takes courage to dare to roll up your sleeves, face up to the challenges and make the difficult decisions that need to be made, and preferably yesterday. Madam President, I would like Let me concretize. There are several things that need to be done in parallel because of the fact that all the different groups in the labour market do not, of course, need the same type of measures. For people who today have a job, we must ensure that the concept of lifelong learning has a meaningful meaning. We need to review the study support system so that part-time work can be combined with part-time skills development, even later in working life. I'm sure there's a lot of different ways to go. One could be to give conversion organisations the opportunity and responsibility to enter before a real need has arisen. In such a scenario, the State could go in and contribute through an exchange of employers' contributions, while companies could take their share of the cost within the framework of collective agreements. For the low-skilled unemployed, strong training efforts need to be made. We need to expand the professional programmes and apprenticeships vigorously. This effort will be particularly beneficial for foreign-born, but also for school-tired young people. We also need to increase access to supplementary higher education for people with foreign academic degrees. There is a huge gap between supply and need. We also need to ensure that the standard for Swedish for immigrants becomes full-time instead of part-time. We need to reduce the number of retroactive days in parental insurance for newcomers and expand integration preschools so that foreign-born women can enter the regular labour market more easily and quickly. But this will not be enough. That would be an illusion to believe. We need to do even more things. We generally need to increase access to simpler jobs. The Centre Party has a proposal to remove the employer's contribution for the first two years of the labour market. But there is also another thing that needs to be done: reducing taxes on our small businesses, which create jobs. The Centre Party has therefore also proposed the removal of the employer's contribution for the first employee during the first two years. A review of the benefit system is also necessary, something I have touched on in the past. Only during the period 1 January 2018 – 30 June 2018 Arbetsförmedlingen sent over 500 000 messages to the a-kassas and Försäkringskassan about the unemployed who had not done their job search. Bring in the number: 500,000 messages in just six months! The Center Party also wants to clean up among inefficient labour market policies and government employment subsidies. You know that. Lower the cost of hiring instead of subsidising fake jobs and thus crowding out real jobs! The future of employment services is also important to devote thought to. Today, the Authority is failing in several of its core tasks. Above all, it is deeply regrettable that the Authority is only capable of making labour market policy assessments for every fifth that is registered with the Authority. These particular labour market policy assessments, which form the basis of action plans and further action for the individual, must be the main priority somewhere for a government agency that wants to safeguard the effectiveness of the mission. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech with an appeal to all of us in this House: do not allow our ideological differences to be a duplicator and prevent what the vast majority of us already agree that we must do, including in the party world! If we are to solve today's and the future's challenges, we must dare address the problems. The alternative is more exclusion areas, higher crime and more social problems. We now have the chance to make structural changes for the benefit of our society and for future generations. Let's get it!
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-800	Madam President, I would like In these times of political stability, internal meetings sometimes become a little more important. That is why I am last on the list of speakers on this matter. Nevertheless, I thought it would be good to have a brief speech. I would like to start by referring to our specific opinion. Then I'd like to talk about Charlie. Earlier this year, I met Charlie. He came to Sweden two years ago from Sudan and is currently working on Axfood's pilot project Nyanländ in Axfood. There he learns Swedish, educates himself and works with salary. At the turn of the year, his trainee program ends, and he will go from new arrivals to new recruits. When I saw Charlie a month ago, he was able to speak almost perfectly Swedish, after only two years in Sweden. It's amazing! You should have listened to his way of speaking. It was amazing. Charlie and the journey he's made represent everything I stand for politically. We must allow more people like Charlie to enter Swedish society. My parents themselves have made the journey that Charlie is making today. I know how much my parents tried, and I know what it's like to grow up in a suburb with parents who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. There are hundreds of thousands of people in Charlies's situation who do not get the opportunity to test a job in Axfood's stores. There is a tremendous inherent force in newly arrived men and women held back by rigid rules and systems. Liberal politics is about more individuals, like Charlie, freeing the inner power. Madam President, I would like The last term of office has been about closing doors, locking them up, throwing away the key and walling the entrance for individuals like Charlie. Several research institutes and expert authorities have stressed the importance of more jobs without entry requirements for individuals to get a first job, but the Red-Green Government has refused to listen to them. The government has made it more difficult to apply labour market and education programmes, like new start-ups and career introduction programmes, by consolidating them with huge regulatory frameworks. The government has postponed the RUT reform, which has paved the way for 30,000 new jobs in Sweden and enabled many, not least foreign-born women, to become self-employed. The government has chosen a care policy instead of offering opportunities and making demands. Miracle cures have been to hide individuals in expensive and inefficient labour market programmes. Every job that has been added after an extra service has cost the community 30 million SEK and the participant several wasted hours. This affects, in particular, training companies and companies specialised in getting people into the labour market, which are now forced to cut back on their activities when all the resources go to additional services, which almost never lead to jobs. Madam President, I would like Our responsibility as politicians is not to dictate to individuals what to do, think or think. It is not up to us to decide whether a person who comes to Sweden will further train to become an academic or start working. Our task is to offer opportunities. The labour market policy of liberals therefore focuses on providing opportunities for the individual. We want to introduce entry jobs so that more new arrivals can get a first job.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-813	Madam President, I would like I am 16 years old and I am terribly worried that my father will lose his job because of this drought. The quote comes from a letter that Elin, the daughter of a dairy farmer, sent to her municipality in connection with the summer drought, in which she asked the municipality to act to support the municipality's farmers. Elin's words capture the concerns that many people in Agricultural Sweden felt during this summer's drought, but also the commitment and strength that were made by consumers, farmers, authorities and politicians to find solutions. A number of months have now passed since the long-awaited raindrops finally arrived, and when the snow falls outside the hall it is difficult to really remember the summer's oppressive heat. But even though the memory of summer has faded somewhat, the consequences of summer droughts are most vivid in many farmers in our country. We in the Center Party are serious when we say that we believe in the future of Swedish agriculture, and we therefore allocate a total of SEK 2.4 billion in 2019 for measures in the long and short term due to summer droughts and to strengthen competitiveness in Swedish food production. If we are to achieve the goal of increased food production decided by the Riksdag in 2017, short-term crisis measures are needed to strengthen liquidity here and now. The Center Party therefore wants to see new crisis support in 2019. It is important for this to be a support that is directed to more branches of the industry than in autumn 2018, when, among other things, it missed both pig farming and crop growing. But the drought also shows how vulnerable Swedish agriculture is. Long-term measures are now needed to enable companies to build good profitability so that they can cope with future valleys, and also to provide farmers with tools to manage a changing climate. It is about reducing the cost of work and inputs such as diesel, ensuring that farmers can operate without the risk of hatred and threats, and ensuring that regulations and authorities' actions contribute to the development of agricultural enterprises rather than hinder them. It is about changing to fossil-free agriculture with hardy crops and systems that can handle a changed climate with both too much and too little precipitation. Many who operate in green industries are small businesses with small margins and limited liquidity. It is therefore crucial that the behaviour of public authorities, for example in the case of aid payments, is clear and predictable. The Centre Party therefore takes very seriously the fact that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has failed to pay in time the compensation to which farmers are entitled, and it is of the utmost importance that the agency has the resources and conditions to fulfil its mission and restore the confidence of farmers. Madam President, I would like Even in the forest industry, 2018 was a year that many will remember, not least because of the horrendous forest fires that affected parts of our country but also because the waves of debate about the forest continued to go high despite the fact that the government presented a national forest programme that was intended to dissolve several of the knots that existed within the forest during the spring. Forests are extremely important for the Swedish economy. It creates jobs in rural areas and is of great importance for our transition to a sustainable and long-term bioeconomy. At the same time, it is important to protect valuable nature and endangered species so that we strengthen biodiversity in forests and soils. But when forest owners feel run over, when they are deprived of power over the forest they have cultivated and managed and whose values they have built for decades and when the state takes land without compensation, it is something that does not work in Swedish conservation. The Center Party therefore believes that a shift in forest protection is needed in order to improve the functioning of nature conservation. For nature conservation to be sustainable in the long term, it must be based on the legitimacy and participation of those concerned. We therefore want to see a review of the Species Protection Regulation, a halt to the key biotop inventory until the method is more legally secure and ensuring that we have appropriate forms of protection and that the forest owner is more closely involved. Madam President, I would like Finally, 2018 was also the year in which this Parliament decided on long-term goals for rural areas. But just as with the food strategy and the national forestry programme, objectives and strategies are nothing until they are translated into concrete action. We in the Center Party strongly believe in the potential and opportunities of Sweden as a whole. We want to see a Sweden where everyone can live and realize their dreams no matter where they live. For individuals as well as businesses, freedom and self-determination are essential elements of the will and ability to create development. In addition to measures such as rural deductions and written off student debts in sparsely populated municipalities, the Center Party therefore wants to implement a series of freedom reforms to facilitate the conditions for living and working in rural areas and give more power to people throughout the country to decide for themselves. This includes municipalised beach protection, farm sales and simpler regulations for business premises in rural areas, but it also involves returning funds from natural resources such as wind and water to the regions concerned, ensuring the functioning of wildlife management through, for example, a wildlife authority, and decentralising management and state jobs throughout the country. Madam President, I would like We are facing a crossroads for rural areas and green industries. In the next parliamentary term, the policy must move from objectives and words to concrete actions and actions that give confidence in the future. We must show Elin and her 16-year-old comrades that we are serious when we say that the future is in the countryside. Since Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than the Centre Party wishes, we will refrain from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations. But we believe that the Center Party's policy for better conditions, greater self-determination and more freedom for people and entrepreneurs in rural areas is the policy that will move Sweden forward.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-827	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 2 on agricultural activities. This is the first time that a transitional government has submitted a budget proposal to Parliament. The Government, the Parliamentary Order and the Budget Act contain provisions on how to do this and on the content. There is no specific regulation on how to design it. That is why we Social Democrats were anxious that this should be done in an acceptable way for all. Although Sweden has a transitional government that follows the agreements and presents a transitional budget, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have chosen to present their own budget movements, which were eventually rewritten into a napkin sketch and with the help of the Swedish Democrats became the parliament's budget. Madam President, I would like Order and order are what I have learned during my years in the Riksdag. It was even the case that the Riksdag decided to bring the elections forward for a week so that the incoming government would have more time to design a budget so that it would be possible to rule the kingdom in a legally secure way. Now, instead, the state finances are to be governed by a hasty napkin sketch. Instead of an elaborate budget bill, the state finances are now governed by an unclear reservation, with the priority being given to large tax cuts for multi-billion dollars and unclear cuts. This leads to uncertain planning conditions in terms of welfare and for our authorities, but above all for our citizens. We are now in the position that we Social Democrats have warned against, where the Swedish Democrats have gained a decisive influence over Swedish politics. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats represent a completely different policy from the one on which we Social Democrats went to elections and want to pursue. We want to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden and invest in welfare and security. The well-being of citizens must take precedence over major unfunded tax cuts. By its decision of 12 December 2018, the Parliament has determined the total expenditure for category 23. As our budget and framework have fallen, we have abstained from taking part in the decision and have given a specific opinion in the report on our policy in Category 23. This appropriation should have been drawn up in accordance with the budget proposal of the transitional government in order to enable the incoming government to draw up a revised amending budget as soon as possible. But, Madam President, we are going to debate MJU2 on agricultural industries. I would have liked to stand here with Mr S in government and present the continuation of the food strategy, how we Social Democrats want to increase self-sufficiency, how we can get more Swedish food on the tables and how we can increase food exports. I would have liked to stand here and present how we can continue along this path in order to achieve a cohesive countryside with a state presence throughout the country. I would have liked to stand here and continue to develop forestry policy and a national forestry programme, with regional forest programmes throughout the country. I would have liked to stand here and present how we can continue new investments in the forest industry and new products and biofuels that we can refuel. I would have liked to stand here and present how we can ensure that Swedish game management develops with secure regional influence, how we want to create a coherent biungulate game management, how we can invest in aquaculture, how we view agricultural policy, the new CAP and fishing in Brexit's tracks, how we view drought and new types of drought and how it affects agriculture. We have been draining water for a long time, but now, together with the agricultural sector, we need to ensure that the policy is designed to ensure the water that agriculture so badly needs. All this and much more I would like to present. I hope, of course, that we can come back and present this and that the Social Democrats, together with other moderate parties, can present a declaration of government that can do this and much more. Now, if we look at the napkin sketch that we have to take a stand on, we can see that green jobs are disappearing. And without the key biotop inventories, Sweden loses credibility in its work on biodiversity. Forest owners lose knowledge of how to use their forests. In the long term, we will reduce competitiveness with fewer opportunities for certified timber, which will affect our exports and the sector that demands certified timber in order to be relevant to the market. Together with the cuts made to Category 20, this represents a severe blow to the ongoing work on managing valuable nature around the country. It is also serious for all forest owners who have taken active responsibility for nature conservation around the country. It is also serious for all those who have entered into a compensation agreement and who are now losing the possibility of compensation. We are also convinced that jobs around the country will be lost in all the companies with which the Swedish Forest Board works together as a result of the reductions that will take place at the Swedish Forest Board. Madam President, I would like The forest industry is under pressure. The sector accounts for record profits in the tracks of red-green governance and in the tracks of the transition to a fossil-free society. Madam President, I would like There is now a considerable shortage of staff in the sector. The forest contractors say it has never been harder to find people for planting and for clearing. It has never been more difficult to attract young people to education in the sector. In this situation, the new right majority chooses to scrap the gateway Green jobs – 1,400 jobs around the country and about 140 jobs in each forest county. It has initially begun there, and it is seen as the future and an opportunity. It'll be cut off on January 1st. How will the new majority find people who want, can and can? Is it lower wages and lower compensations that are the only way forward for the right majority, or do you want to bus more people from Eastern Europe to do the easy jobs? Is that the answer, that is, that more people from Eastern Europe should come here and do what we can do ourselves? Madam President, I would like With the framework decided by the Riksdag, the possibility for a new government to present an additional budget to cope with the investments that make Sweden stick together and ensure jobs and jobs in rural areas is reduced. It's not impossible, but it's getting harder after all. But we will do what we can to break this negative plugin and this negative sketch. The development of the real economy requires a living countryside, we who live there have to have confidence, much more than reduced diesel prices, and we need efficient infrastructure, public services, government jobs, country traders, banks, IT, infrastructure and care for the elderly. In each policy area, we Social Democrats put forward how important it is for S verige to stick together. The community building will be secured, from Kiruna to Trelleborg. Madam President, I would like It is not an easy budgetary process that the committee has carried out. That is why the other officials of the committee and Parliament deserve special thanks and a wish for restful weekends. After the weekends, the committee will start to follow up on how the responsible authorities intend to administer the changed appropriations and the drastic cuts. With this, I wish my colleagues in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-852	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved under paragraphs 1 and 2. This debate is about our priorities in relation to agricultural, rural and food sectors. This is an extremely important part of our budget. The green industries form the basis of a living countryside. Their well-being builds our prosperity. City and country depend on them. So is the climate. Their green fingers care for Sweden's green lungs. That is why, Madam President, it is our job to create the conditions for green industries to do their job. Therefore, the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats are an important step on the road. Many are the politicians who speak warm for a vibrant countryside and increased food production. But, in the end, not everyone is pressing the right buttons in this House. They choose to punish distances instead of emissions. They say no to regulatory simplifications that can reduce administration and strengthen competitiveness. They say no to farm sales, even though there is every reason to let it simmer in the countryside. They distrust the forestry community's ability to take responsibility under freedom. And they are constantly increasing the costs to farmers as if they took them for granted. Madam President, I would like This summer, agriculture and forestry were severely affected. Severe droughts spread, and widespread forest fires ravaged. Harvests were lost, forest cultivated for generations went up in smoke, and farmers were forced to slaughter animals. It was a summer that will go down in history, and we will always remember how society stood up. Now is the time for us politicians to stand up. In our budget, we have therefore allocated SEK 760 million to those whose income has been lost as a result of the drought. In addition to this, we have allocated SEK 72 million to the country's foresters. But more is needed. The acute crisis has brought the light to an even greater problem, namely lack of margins and too weak resilience. Our line is clear: the competitiveness of farmers must be strengthened. For this to happen, the regulatory burden and costs must be reduced. There is a risk that too great a burden will lead to the collapse of Swedish production in favour of goods from other countries. That's not how we strengthen Swedish food production, that's not how we strengthen the Swedish economy and that's not how we improve the environment. A large part of the cost burden consists of taxes, not least on fuel for the machinery needed in the agricultural and forestry production chain. Transport of raw materials from the forest or food from fields and stables is a prerequisite for us to be able to make a green and sustainable transition in society. All of this, however, requires that our agriculture and forestry are not competed out in favour of other alternatives. No one's gonna win. Therefore, the Moderates and Christian Democrats propose a further refund of the tax on diesel used in the green industries. The Swedish forestry policy has previously been subject to the provisions of the Declaration of Freedom under Responsibilities. It's served us well. Precisely freedom under responsibility has built up the fine values that we see in the forests today and that many now want to protect. During the last term of office, however, uncertainty has increased with our Swedish forest owners. The government and the authorities are making increasing efforts to reduce our sustainable forestry. The Minister for the Environment has even gone so far as to say in this House that it would be unreasonable for the State to replace all those who have their property rights restricted. It damages confidence, long-termism and willingness to invest. At the same time, everyone seems to think that forests play a key role in the transition by providing alternatives to fossil materials and fuels. But how will someone dare to invest in the forest when you don't know if you get legal treatment from our authorities? How will someone dare to bet when you don't know if you're reaping the fruits? Confidence, legal certainty and long-term sustainability are needed for important green investments. Therefore, we will stop the key biotop inventory until it can be carried out in a legally secure manner. It is also something that Parliament has long been demanding and demanding again today and something that the government should have done a long time ago. Madam President, I would like Those who believe in Swedish countryside and really understand that city and country are connected do everything they can to let the green industries green. This is a debate on agriculture, forestry, food and rural areas, but it is also a debate on climate, the environment and nutrition policy. In all these areas, we need a blue policy that understands what is needed for competitiveness, for the willingness to invest and for companies to stand on their own and grow on their own. The green industries and the green values are best served by a blue policy.
i-8bQoWjjdhfNHBiHxAKanpt	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Maria Stenergard. In fact, I cannot help but wonder whether Maria Malmer Stenergard, the Moderates and the new Right Alliance feel that the authorities do not comply with Swedish legislation – legislation that has been put forward in this area by bourgeois governments since the principle of freedom under responsibility was implemented. The 2013 Bill on Biodiversity set out the goals for what the state should save, what voluntary provisions should mean and how we should achieve biodiversity across the country. Is it really the bill that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats want to redo – or scrap? After all, we are now going through the back door to pay compensation, which will directly affect those who are now in the process of signing or have signed a contract for compensation. You cut the budget right away. Those who actually do their job think this has worked. Some 9 000 forest owners per year have received or are about to receive compensation. Does Maria Malmer Stenergard think it's bad?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-865	Madam President, I would like You should have great respect for the influence of legislation, but you should also have great respect for what it means with management and governance in the public sector. During the time that the Red-Green Government has been sitting in Rosenbad, it has certainly proved that it matters what signals you send to the authorities. There has been an incredibly worrying trend in the way forest owners are treated in this country. Let me be very clear: the Moderates stand up for ownership and the right of forest owners to farm their forests. We are therefore stopping the heavily criticised key biotope inventory. It is also a decision that the Riksdag has taken. A majority here in Parliament is behind it, and the Member's government should have done so a long time ago. The principle of freedom under responsibility has benefited Swedish forests and the forest industry, and it must continue to support it. The State shall not claim property from individuals without giving reasonable compensation. Then compensation can be paid in another way – for example, in the form of a change of forest, as the Alliance now wants it to be reintroduced – but the key biotop inventory has led to people not receiving compensation in the event of ownership restrictions. This is particularly sad because the values we now claim to want to protect to a large extent have come about precisely because of the use of the forest by families for generations. When it comes to ownership, you can trust the Moderates. We'll be the last man standing.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-869	Madam President, I would like We can see that some money is missing. Some money is missing, just as it did before the Red - Green government took office. There was a large, neglected maintenance, where there were several thousand forest owners waiting for compensation because the appropriations were too small. This is now being completely hijacked. They also hijack the Swedish Forest Board and say: We stop the key biotop inventories until further notice. At the moment, I feel that it is not going to get started with this budget, and I think it would be more honest if the Moderates said as it was: that they want to do about how they view the protection of biodiversity and that they want to change the basic legislation. I would like to argue that our Swedish authorities comply with Swedish legislation.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-871	Madam President, I would like Now, however, we must be right: we are not cutting the compensation entirely, but we are keeping some of the appropriations. However, we cut the remuneration for the key biotop inventories until they can be done in a legally secure manner. As I said, it is entirely in accordance with what the majority of Parliament has proposed. It is also the case that the government itself has stated that 31 per cent of Sweden's forest land is currently excluded from use. The question then becomes how much Isak From would actually like to exclude from use. Is that 40% or 50%? As I said, there are other ways to protect forests, for example through forest change. I would also like to remind you of the recent report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which shows that Sweden has focused far too much on quantity and not quality when it comes to protection. It's time for a change.
i-58E9DwdPmEmEUqn5B2xmyJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Maria Stenergard. The drought this summer was an effect of climate change. Maria Malmer Stenergard has repeatedly said that climate work must now be reduced because – as she puts it – it is not effective enough. The fact that we manage the climate transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet is of paramount importance to rural areas. As an environmental party, I can really state the following: If it is somewhere the car is needed, it is precisely in the countryside. Therefore, locally produced fossil-free fuels are also needed that are distributed throughout the country, and electricity stations need to be available throughout the country. Maria Malmer Stenergard has said that the climate life is a symbolic initiative, but I believe that 30 000 charging stations are not symbolic. Yesterday we in the Environmental Party received unexpected help from an organisation that normally does not tend to be on our side, namely Bil Sweden, which in Svenska Dagbladet criticized the Moderates and Christian Democrats for cutting down on the Climate Board. It is believed that it is a major mistake to close down Swedish climate policy in this way. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Maria Stenergard whether she has really pushed the right button in this House in terms of climate policy.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-878	Madam President, I would like Thank you for addressing incredibly important issues related to emissions from the transport sector, Maria Gardfjell! We have to deal with them, because they account for one third of our emissions here in Sweden. But, again, right should be right. Climate work must be reduced, says Maria Gardfjell. That's not true. On the other hand, we are redistributing climate change through our budget, or at least taking important steps. We stop focusing on the number of crowns invested and symbolic measures, as several expert authorities have noted, and focus instead on things that are of particular benefit. That is why we have actually picked a part of the Climate Tree, namely the part that experts like the Institute of Economic Development have said is more effective. It is about the expansion of charging infrastructure in public places, where more people can take part of them. We are investing in this in a specific new budget line, and I do not think that has escaped Maria Gardfjell. As far as the criticism from Bil Sweden is concerned, it mainly concerns the charge-home support. It is rarely a gossip when someone who has enjoyed grants and can no longer do so has little comment on the matter. However, I feel very confident in our decisions, because this has been called a fiasco. Very few have applied for the grant, and these are measures that had been implemented anyway, the experts state. So no, there will be no less climate work now, but it will be a better focus. I would like to remind you once again that we are spending 1.1 billion more on the budget that we are discussing today, which is about the green industries, because they are so incredibly important for our climate work. No one – least of all the climate – benefits from their extinction.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-882	Madam President, I would like There is not a single krona of this 1.1 billion extra that the government has not announced in previous budget proposals or in play about the drought this summer. It is fully in line with what has already been in place.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-884	I hear that you do not mention organic production in your speech, Maria Malmer Stenergard, but the government's announced investment of SEK 25 million in the conversion to organic production is missing. This 25 million is the only proposal announced by the government that you do not include. We know that there is a need for more investment in organic production because demand is increasing strongly and because this provides an opportunity for Swedish agriculture to develop. Should I, Madam President, take the view that Maria Malmer Stenergard does not want to develop Sweden's agriculture on the basis of market demands?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-886	Madam President, I would like In the question was the answer! The sharp increase in demand that has been seen is a good thing that there is no need for aid. We are very keen to increase food production, but we are also happy to see that consumers are involved in controlling and influencing the range that should be available. We believe that from a political point of view – from this House – we should not tell people what they should put on their plate. There too, Maria Gardfjell has her answer.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-888	Madam President, I would like After all, the Parliament has determined the total expenditure for category 23. Since the Swedish democrats' proposals for appropriations in the area of expenditure are above that level, we cannot reserve ourselves in favour of our proposal. I refer instead to our particular opinion. However, I would ask for reservation 2 on the payment of farmers' aid and reservation 7 on aid for relief. The area of expenditure relates to the agricultural industries, i.e. agriculture, forests, reindeer husbandry, hunting and fishing, but also to the foodstuffs produced and the environmental values associated with these industries. One might think that one can look isolated on, for example, the environmental values in the landscape and make decisions that only look at these values, but that is wrong. The areas of expenditure are closely intertwined. For example, one decision based on an environmental value may indirectly threaten another if it means that the profitability of agriculture is too low. Generally speaking, if the real industries have good profitability, there is as much more that can be done. This applies not least to the living countryside, but also to what is possible in terms of nature considerations, food quality and animal welfare. High-performance Swedish agriculture must be guaranteed reasonable long-term conditions of competition and working conditions, as well as fair compensation for the added value of society produced by farmers. The drought of the summer showed, above all, the vulnerability resulting from too small margins in the agricultural industry. For forestry, we must not pursue a short-term policy that removes the bones of landowners and foresters and, not least, the confidence and spirit of cooperation that has marked the relationship between the industry and the state and is an absolute prerequisite for private owners' willingness to invest in something as long-term as forest management. Swedish forestry has a good potential as a motor in bioeconomy, but then we must succeed in simultaneously ensuring biological, social, economic and cultural values. I think it is very difficult to achieve an effective policy in the field of economics without a holistic approach. The area, like most other areas, is full of conflict goals that make it necessary to see all the values and weigh them off against each other in a good sense of consistency. It is also important to actively seek synergies, where measures, while promoting the environment, provide better conditions for the production and promotion of other values. When it comes to figures, we have allocated in our budget two budget lines less appropriations and six budget lines higher appropriations than the transitional government. In addition, there are four new budget lines in our budget. In total, we are spending half a billion more than the transitional government in the expenditure area. In the budget as a whole, we spend 2 billion more on green industries. In addition, additional funds would have been added through the abolition of the general salary levy for the first three employees if the Swedish Democrats' budget as a whole had been adopted. Remember that for the next budget vote next year! We are making cuts in the Swedish Forest Agency's funds for forestry. This has to do with the fact that we want to temporarily stop the heavily criticised key biotop inventories, where forest owners have ended up in limbo. They will be resumed, but only when legal certainty for forest owners is guaranteed. The Swedish model for everyday considerations in forestry, with a high degree of voluntaryity, needs to be preserved and developed as well as to form the basis for environmental work linked to the forest. The model has been damaged by the short-term policy of key biotop inventories. We are also reducing the large scale-up of green jobs in the forest in this budget. The board's administrative allocation is also reduced, as those parts of the agency that handle biotopinventory and green jobs can be reduced. Our budgeted appropriations are still well above the 2017 appropriations. Agricultural conditions require a number of reforms. On the one hand, we are monitoring that the new aid rules within the EU and in Sweden are reasonable, effective and simpler, and on the other hand the cost situation for Swedish farmers must come close to what applies to competing farmers in other countries. To achieve this, we permanently reduce diesel tax by 11⁄2 billion, which is not reflected in the budget for Category 23. In the longer term, we expect that the diesel tax reduction will lead to lower feed prices, which can also benefit other operators in the industry. We are introducing an animal welfare allowance of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow because they are allowed to go out to graze. Due to this year's severe drought, we are introducing annual support for agricultural sectors that are not hit by the reduction in diesel tax or animal welfare payments, such as pig production, egg production and vegetable cultivation. The total investment in farmers for 2019 will be 2.1 billion and even more so if the abolition of the general wage levy is included, which should be done. The degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden must rise from the historically low levels now. In order for the investments in a better competitive situation to provide a good exchange for increased production, we allocate extra funds to aquaculture, import control, competence development and export strategies and work for Swedish procurement to take into account Swedish added value. Production in Sweden results in lower climate loads and lower use of pesticides. This means that at the same time as we increase production in Sweden and improve the conditions for a living countryside, we reduce the environmental impact of Swedish and foreign consumers. Finally, we will ensure that intensively cultivated agricultural land is finally monitored, which will provide early information on the change in critical environmental parameters and cultivation parameters that are important both from an environmental and from a production perspective. This is a measure with clear synergies. The joint budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats also includes a re-launch for the Swedish Forest Board for its work on protection of a valuable nature in a direction that provides greater efficiency and a better overall view. Unfortunately, the budget does not include a permanent reduction in diesel tax but a temporary refund of a large part of the money to alleviate the effects of summer drought. Unfortunately, many of our forward-looking appropriations are missing. However, the budget is broadly in the right direction and is certainly better than that of the transitional government.
i-EeT6hGEMTrEUAp5NQzmxiJ	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I forgot to call for the approval of reservation 1, which deals with the key biotope inventory and the move actually made by the S ‐ led government. I ask you to accept reservation 1. Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for your speech. The Swedish democrats have chosen to join a new right-wing alliance, and then they have not so much of their own politics. Then there has been a great influence. We see this not least in this area of the budget. Then the question is: What is the next step to push for? Is it to receive the animal welfare allowance that the Swedish democrats are driving to the full? Is the idea that the Moderates and Christian Democrats should tax-finance animal welfare that each animal owner should of course provide without tax subsidy?
i-FK29ntHtQTfdCSsfG4udBU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for the question! Of course, we have an ambition that animal welfare compensation should be implemented, the sooner the better, of course, because it is a competitive disadvantage for Swedish farmers compared to farmers in other countries. But we think it's very good to have dairy cows on pasture. That is why we want to replace farmers for this added value that they bring to the Swedish people. I can assure Isak From that the Swedish Democrats will always work for as much impact on our policy as possible, regardless of the area involved.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-913	Madam President, I would like Yes, we see that the Swedish Democrats have gained a great influence here. But it is totally unreasonable for taxpayers to be involved in subsidising something that every animal owner should obviously do on the basis of legislation. I asked a question in my speech – Staffan Eklöf may have thought about it. How will the new right-wing majority find people in the forest sector? Is lower compensation and lower wages the only way forward? Or are we going to bus even more people from Eastern Europe to carry out grubbing-up and planting services? Is it the Swedish Democrats' idea of how we are moving forest policy forward that more guest workers from Eastern Europe should come here and work?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-915	Madam President, I would like Animal welfare and dairy cows on pasture could be carried out with different models. The legislative model has now been chosen. At the same time, however, public purchasers buy in things that are not approved under Swedish legislation, and that is not how we can do it. We punish our own farmers if we tell them to comply with a certain regulatory framework and then buy meat from abroad that does not have to comply with the regulations. They simply need compensation. It is a moral issue, among other things. Lower wages we say no to; we do not want lower wages. These industries are well-functioning, and if they are given the opportunity to be profitable, they will be profitable. It will also make it possible to live in rural areas. With our policy, there will be many more people who can live in rural areas and thus the need for skills will be solved.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-917	Madam President, I would like Today's debate can take place where we left off on Tuesday. The difference between the transitional budget and the right-wing conservative budget highlights an important difference. It's about values like using and nurturing. In the budget that we are now discussing, it is crystal clear that the nutritional perspective is prioritised at the expense of the environment. It is an important perspective, but mixed with short-term solutions and short-term formulations of problems, there are major consequences. If we are to continue to live and cultivate nature on this earth, something very drastic must happen. We have to change our lives. It is clear in the UN climate report that it is the rich countries that must take the lead in this work. It is the rich countries of the world that have caused climate change and that continue to do so to the greatest extent, because we know that with income emissions are growing. The poorest half of the world's population, about 3.5 billion people, accounts for 10 percent of the world's emissions, while the richest tenth, about 700 million people, are responsible for half of the world's emissions. It places historical demands on us and other countries that have come a long way from not allowing the emission space to limit their development. We have benefited from a carbon-intensive development period, and it is only reasonable that we now also take the consequences and responsibility for it. When it comes to climate aid, the Left Party has worked for it but has said that it must never be taken from the existing aid work as it is now. Nor must it be used as an excuse to do less here in Sweden. We say that we should use today and at the same time care so that we can use even in 10, 20 or 30 years when the next generation takes over. Caring is not high in the budget that is now before us. The key biotop inventory is stopped. The reason is the reluctance of bourgeois parties to implement it, despite the fact that the Swedish Forest Board, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and a collective environmental movement believe it is important. A key biotope with its high natural values and its importance for forest plants and animals is important for biodiversity, and knowledge of the presence of key biotope is an important basis for the Swedish conservation work. The idea of the key biotop inventory is by no means new. An inventory was made in the 1990s, and the inventory that we are talking about today could renew the knowledge base then collected. Despite the fact that the issue has been raised for a long time, the right-wing Conservatives now choose to delete the inventory without presenting any proposal as to what we could do instead. Forest owners have expressed concern about the inventory. They are worried about standing with chips that suddenly lose economic value. That is why it is so important that more and more compensation should be paid to those who have a high proportion of protected forests on their land, not that the inventory should be stopped. A reduced grant for payments of SEK 200 million worth of forest conservation payments gives the picture of two parties who do not think that the compensation is particularly important. We know that many people are already receiving compensation and that the need for it will increase in the future, while many today are not receiving compensation and are waiting to receive it. The risk of non-reimbursement is that they simply choose to harvest their forests instead. The way in which the key biotope inventory is to be conducted is not static. Changes have been made in, among other things, how to evaluate forests in the north-western parts of the country. An active acquisition of knowledge also requires, of course, an active evaluation where the process can be continuously improved. It is important that the inventory is right, that we protect the forests needed to preserve species wealth. Yeah, but then how much are we supposed to protect, we'll never be done? wonder the right-wing conservatives where they sit in the back seat like impatient children on a journey that they think is far too long. They also count as children and say that today we protect up to 30 percent of all forests. They know it's a number that doesn't add up. According to the Nagoya agreement, which Sweden will live up to, we have agreed to set aside 17% of all our productive forest. If today we count the formally deposed forest, nature reserves and so on, together with voluntary deforestation, we get 8%. How, then, can 8% be 30%? Yes, perhaps for the same reason 143 will be more than 144. Or it is because they choose to count on land that is not protected or not usable, because if you want to see it from an economic perspective, it is of course good to protect land that you do not use. Marks like empires where no trees grow then suddenly have a purpose. You could say that you set aside 30% without actually having to sacrifice anything. That's how they count. By including consideration areas and unproductive forests, such as impediments that are poor soils for both biodiversity and production, they quickly reach up to 30 percent. The problem is that it means that we do not live up to the Nagoya agreement, which requires that we set aside 17% of ecologically representative forests within connected networks, and these forests should be protected by reserves and other effective nature conservation measures. The budget has more consequences. The Board of Forestry has already begun to phase out the labour market measure in close proximity to jobs. The aim of these jobs was to make it easier for the long-term unemployed and newcomers to enter the labour market. Today, some 1,500 people are taking part throughout the country, but just in time for Christmas, they are now told that their employment is not extended after New Year's. Throughout this right-wing conservative proposal is short-term efforts that put profit interests ahead of environmental considerations and solidarity with future generations. I therefore support our joint reservation, No 1, on key biotope inventory and otherwise refrain from taking part in the decision.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-931	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved under paragraphs 1 and 2. Madam President, I would like Summer 2018 will go to history as one of the driest and warmest in manna memory. Many farmers have been very concerned about getting enough feed for their animals. Feed prices have skyrocketed, so it is difficult to make ends meet. It is therefore important that we in the budget from M and KD propose SEK 760 million to strengthen the affected agricultural industry. Summer's drought puts its finger on the problem. There are no financial reserves to take out when it is in crisis like this year. Profitability is too low. This is where political action must be taken, so that profitability increases. We are happy to talk in this House about the food strategy, and it is an important document. However, it is not enough to have just one document, but here politics must move from fine words to action. The Competitiveness Investigator showed a number of measures to strengthen competitiveness and increase profitability. One suggestion was to reduce the diesel tax. That is why we have reduced taxes on diesel as a measure for agriculture and forestry in our budget. It is a start, but we hope to have a new government that is taking even more important measures for Swedish agricultural policy. I am also thinking of the regulatory burden that is becoming heavier and heavier. A farmer who today has the production of, for example, milk or cereals has about 900 rules to relate to. No wonder then that a farmer I met at a farmer breakfast in Nässjö said that every morning when you wake up you think: What rule will I break today? A new government must work purposefully with regulatory simplifications for our entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, Madam President, the measurements made show that agriculture is being shut down in Sweden, that the amount of milk weighed is falling and that the self-sufficiency of food is at seriously low levels, below 50%. Imagine that the shelves in the grocery stores here in Stockholm in the event of a crisis would be empty after two days! Of course, that's not good enough. We must increase our self-sufficiency in food. What if we could raise our target so that we approached our neighbouring country, Finland, which has up to 80 percent? Madam President, I would like Another great threat we see in the countryside is the great boar tribe. Last year, wild boars destroyed SEK 1.5 billion for farmers, and that does not count for all the costs of road accidents and the destruction of villas and other things. There's a lot of damage. It must come to a decision to reduce the wild boar strain, and it is urgent. Madam President, I would like I am very concerned about the development of the threats to agricultural entrepreneurs. Criminal animal rights activists threaten families so seriously that some may even move to sheltered accommodations. This can't go on. It is an enormous human suffering and a threat to democracy. We politicians have a great responsibility to make laws that bring this to an end. I would like to wish everyone in committee a really happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-941	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just have to keep asking the right-wing majority how you think now when you cut the green jobs. There are just over 1 400 people, some 140 in each large forest county, who are on their way to create their jobs and livelihoods in the forestry sector. You cut that off. What is the right-wing alliance's answer to that? Is it lower wages, lower compensation, or do you intend to continue to increase the proportion that is being bused here from Eastern Europe in order to be able to carry out plantings, grubbing-up and so on?
i-82KtKgjGVZegzd1yhSp4ME	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for your question! That's a great question asked. I wonder a little what the honourable Member's thinking. Is it wrong that there are people from other countries in Europe? It seems that the honourable Member looks a little down on Eastern Europeans. They do a lot of good. We are part of the Schengen Agreement. I think the honourable Member needs to explain a little bit how he thinks and why it's so terrible that they come and work here. I'd like to know how you think about it. We are concerned about our companies, the honourable Member. We care about our forest companies and landowners. Is there anything that has been interesting during these four years is when we have had Forest Day, for example. The honourable Member himself has been present. It turns out that many are so concerned about the tendency of ownership and how to handle these things. It is interesting to ask Mr Isak From how he views property rights and the issues that lie in that part.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-946	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Member of Parliament Magnus Oscarsson does not understand. We also do not understand how to cut off 1,400 green jobs with an opportunity to enter Swedish society. The Christian Democrats have normally protected the opportunity for newcomers to come out to work. They have now changed foot and stood on the side of the Right Alliance. Instead, it is now seen that it is lower wages, lower remuneration and guest workers from Eastern Europe who will compete out Swedish companies. Apparently, it's way worse. It is serious that those who have been given an opportunity to enter are now losing that opportunity. The Christian Democrats have made an active choice here, Madam President.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-949	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Isak From. I can't hear you answering my question. But I will try to answer the honourable Member's question. We are concerned that people who come here will get a job. We are concerned that they will receive training. We are keen to get into work if you are newcomers in our country. That is the answer to the honourable Member's question.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-951	Madam President, I would like More than half of the grain harvest dried up in the summer of 2018. The harvest was summed up to about 3 1⁄2 million tonnes compared to 6.2 million tonnes, which is the average harvest in recent years. It is the worst harvest in Sweden when it comes to cereals since the 1950s. The drought has also affected large parts of northern Europe. In the case of coarse fodder, the harvest is summed up to 60 - 80 percent of normal. The Swedish harvest of vegetables and root vegetables appears to be 50 - 90 percent of normal. For Swedish products, the drought of 2018 in Sweden leads, for example, to an increase in the prices of fodder. This, in turn, leads to increased prices for me, beef and pig production. Access to organic feed is being reduced, thus reducing the supply of organic products. There may be a future shortage of Swedish dairy products such as cream, butter and cheese and perhaps also in Swedish birds and eggs. There will be a reduction in the supply of Swedish vegetables and root vegetables. There will be price increases in those areas. Swedish-produced goods can simply run out in the store shelves. Climate change means that situations with extreme weather will become more common. Therefore, the most important thing to see from the summer's drought is how agriculture can be made less vulnerable and more climate-friendly. Madam President, I would like Funds will be provided for rural investments. This concerns measures relating to the drought. This is an initiative that the government has announced for the summer of 2018. In addition, SEK 650 million is added for rural policy measures and SEK 100 million for broadband expansion. There are two initiatives that were also announced by the Red Green Government in the 2018 Budget Bill. The Government has taken several initiatives to ensure that the Swedish Board of Agriculture pays out the support for agriculture that is lagging behind. A board of directors has been appointed and additional resources have been added. I believe, however, that we need to identify the root causes of evil. Outsourcing of IT within the Swedish Board of Agriculture is cost-driven and simply does not work. There's no more money needed now. It is high time to stop outsourcing. For the extra support for the drought, M, KD and SD agree that the investment should be locked into the use of diesel and villa oil in agriculture. In addition, M, KD and SD have policies that increase subsidies on diesel for agriculture and do not give extra support to or want to reward those farms that are at the forefront. It is the organic farmers, the farmers who are climate-smart and the country's natural pasture farmers. From the Green Party we would rather see the aid allocated according to the needs of agriculture and not to reward the increased use of fossil energy. Probably the most climate-smart farmers in our country are disadvantaged by Moderate politics. They are the ones who have invested in circular economy, such as machine rings. They are the ones who have really gone in to invest in energy efficiency. Madam President, I would like According to MSB, the best food policy to reduce vulnerability is to introduce policy instruments and implement efforts to speed up the transition to a fossil-free farm. It is very important that Swedish agriculture is not totally dependent on imported fuels, fertilizers or feed materials. The self-sufficiency of food must be increased. We now see clearly that the Moderates and the KD are pursuing a policy that threatens the development of the future of Swedish agriculture. Madam President, I would like I cannot stress enough how unseriously I think it is, on the basis of the current political situation, that we are not getting the transitional budget in place. It was based on a few principles to protect order not only in Sweden's economy but in Sweden as a country. Madam President, I would like We need to talk about the Swedish forest. Too many people don't see the forest, but just the trees, the wood and the raw material for the pulp industry. The forest is all the species and habitats that exist in the forest land. We have many forest owners in this country who for a very long time have made great efforts for the nature of our forests. Now the Moderates and Christian Democrats are reducing the natural grant by SEK 298 million. It is about the grant to offer forest owners with key bio-rich farming units compensation and money to offer the opportunity for simple green jobs. Simple green jobs in the forest sector are seen as an important part of the supply of expertise in Swedish forestry. The allocation for the protection of forests through nature conservation agreements is also decreasing. Madam President, I would like In the wake of the fires in Ljusdal and elsewhere in the country, more resources of several kinds are needed. Unfortunately, the Moderates and Christian Democrats ignore the fact that funding for nature conservation is an important component of this. They want to stop the inventory of so-called key biotopes. This is an important mapping of where there is valuable nature with ecosystems that need to be protected by forest owners. The inventory is needed if forest owners are to gain added value when selling their forest products. Our last protected forests must be preserved. Protectable lands do not become less frequent simply because they are not surveyed. According to the Environmental Code, forest owners have a duty to know whether their forests are safe, and they need to consult on measures. The money for compensation and inventories is a help for forest owners to gain knowledge about protected areas in good time to be able to plan their fellings and their economy. You might want certification, nature conservation and so on. Those forest owners who have more than 5% key biotopes in their land now no longer receive the compensation they so badly need. It is the individual forest owners who are affected by the policy of Moderates and Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like I am proud that the Red-Green Government has changed the course of rural policy. The focus is to close the gap between town and country. All policy areas must contribute to the strengthening of rural areas. It is therefore particularly unfortunate, Madam President, that the reduction in subsidies on affordable housing should be removed. They had really benefited the countryside. It is unfortunate that so many green jobs are disappearing. This applies to both simple jobs, biologist jobs and jobs in the green industries. Madam President, I would like Sweden has high targets for IT policy. We will be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. In order for the whole country to be involved, it is therefore necessary to invest in broadband in rural areas. By the state complementing private companies' efforts, the whole of Sweden can get a better connection. In the broadband billion invested by the Red Green Government there was announced the SEK 100 million that are now also supported by the Moderates and Christian Democrats. With this, I would like to support Amendment No 1 by the Green Party on key biotopes and refer to the specific opinion. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, all the egos and all the politicians in environmental and agricultural policy a really merry Christmas.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-971	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the very comprehensive post, Maria Gardfjell! I have a question for starters. I reacted to the statement that she cannot stress enough how unseriously it is that we have not got the transitional budget in place. The transitional budget did not provide any support for farmers affected by the drought and foresters affected by fires. Thanks to the fact that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats put this budget on Parliament's table, the work of paying the compensation quickly can now get started. The Green Party would have been completely free to present a budget in a similar way so that farmers could have been compensated if it had won. In what way does Maria Gardfjell think it is unserious that we want to ensure that farmers receive compensation?
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-974	Madam President, I would like I really cannot stress enough how unseriously I think it is from the current political situation that we do not have a transitional budget without an M-KD budget. The transitional budget was based on principles to protect order and order in the situation we are now in between the elections and a future government. The principle had been firmly anchored by the Minister of Finance both in the KU and with all the fiscal spokespersons. The worrying thing is that the Moderates, as I have previously seen as a serious party, now join the Swedish Democrats' chaos line and no longer accept order. What was important about a transitional budget was precisely that the future government, no matter what it looks like, would have the full power to develop the policy that that government wants to develop. That is why a transitional budget is the best solution. The examples of measures that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have put in their budget in this particular area coincide with what the Red Green Government has announced. I guess we'll have to thank you for not taking the turns. But in the environmental field, as another example, it is a major problem that you have made up things that may not be feasible.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-978	Madam President, I would like One can easily get the impression that the transitional budget is some form of neutral budget. But it is not at all, but it is an extension of the red-green policy which has been extremely damaging to the green industries for far too long. Happily, earlier this autumn compensation was in place for those affected by the drought. However, as a consequence of the policy that has been announced for a long time, the transitional budget proposed that the aid should be largely eaten up by an increase in diesel tax precisely for those industries that have been hit so hard by the drought. It would not benefit our food production, and we are saying that we want it to increase. I can only agree with the leader of the Land newspaper today, who writes that it is now just keeping our fingers crossed because we have a government that wants to work in accordance with the club's budget. With this, I would like to wish everyone a really merry Christmas.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-982	Madam President, I would like The biggest challenge facing us is the climate threat. If we do not ensure the possibility for Swedish agriculture to move to fossil-free, we will have major problems in the future. This is not just the case for farmers, who may fail to grow and suffer from drought more summers. It can also be a lack of food and difficult to live not only here in Sweden but throughout the world. It is absolutely crucial, Maria Stenergard, that we phase out subsidies on diesel and oil. It is absolutely crucial for agriculture to be able to say that we do not continue to subsidise fossil energy.
i-YJQJFtxHRZSM3XWCPNWe9T	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the presentation, Maria Gardfjell! Maria Gardfjell says that we subvent diesel use in the M-KD budget supported by SD. She thinks it is an unserious procedure and believes that we are destroying the climate. At the same time, the honourable Member is talking about increased self-sufficiency, but I believe that the environmental party's climate policy and food self-sufficiency are two irreconcilable objectives that come from a lack of holistic approach. Let me be clear. Sweden increases the tax on petrol for rural people who need the car. China is building coal power plants. Sweden imposes penalties on Swedish agriculture. India is building coal power plants. Sweden subsidises electric cars to the upper middle class and installs charging stations in their homes. Russia is extracting more natural gas. Sweden subsidises toys to those who do not want to trample themselves. China is building coal power plants in other countries. This is a race that we cannot win no matter how much we beat ourselves in Sweden. Sweden accounts for 1 per mil of the world's emissions. China accounts for 26% of the world's carbon dioxide emissions and increased its emissions by 1% last year. India increased its emissions by 3 per cent last year. Figures from 2017 indicate that China is building 700 new coal power plants around the world. That shows two things. The first is that our contribution to reducing climate gas emissions is negligible. The second is that our efforts do not cause others to follow, unfortunately. The parts of the transitional government's budget dealing with innovation and technology development are the important climate initiatives. We Swedish democrats renouncing that strategy by removing a lot of inefficient policies and adding an extra half a billion to innovation and technology development. We are also spending a quarter of a billion on efforts to make fourth generation nuclear power work with spent nuclear waste. If these efforts are made in such a way that fossil energy is relatively too expensive and uninteresting, Sweden can produce a global effect instead of a local effect and a lasting effect rather than a transient effect.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-989	Madam President, I would like The other day Staffan Eklöf's party friend Martin Kinnunen stood here in a dialogue and said that the Swedish Democrats are indeed behind the Paris Agreement. I remember yesterday when it was the day before yesterday. To be behind the Paris Agreement means to support the fact that we in Sweden need to reduce our emissions. We cannot just point out that others should take that responsibility and do it elsewhere at some other time, but we have a responsibility. Sweden is also thanks to the strong climate policy we are driving a leading force in international contexts. We are seen as one of the most important representatives and climate leaders in the world. We do this thanks to our good reputation but also because we can show an effective policy where we work with instruments for example petrol and diesel, climate investments and other investments. It is crucial for rural areas in the future that we are able to cope with climate change and have sufficient access to fossil-free fuels. I have to say, Madam President, that a lack of overall understanding does not mean that Staffan Eklöf should blame the Green Party for these issues. Here, in fact, the last parliamentary term has succeeded in bringing about a climate policy framework, a climate law and a working method that unites the Swedish Parliament.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-992	Madam President, I would like New technology also reduces emissions in Sweden, which can enable the Paris Agreement to be maintained. But that's the small thing in this context. New technologies can reduce emissions in the world. That's where the great potential lies. The conclusion is that if we are to succeed in saving the Earth's climate, we must make a change of method. It is not about ambition, it is about different ways of looking at methods. We believe that the methods used today are unrealistic. They will not lead to the desired result. We have proof that the other countries are now building coal-fired power plants after coal-fired power plants. Malawi will have its first coal power production soon, and they have never had coal power before. They do that because they don't have options. There are no alternative technologies, but we could develop that. Nor is there any money spent, to the extent that we want, on developing countries for them to use for renewable energy. We'll add 500 million extra.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-994	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Staffan Eklöf is talking about new technology and that Sweden can become a role model. Within the projects supported by Industriklivet that now the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats want to phase out completely, we develop new Swedish technology where we can produce steel without coal. The cement industry is next to be able to possibly get this support, but you have put a stop to that. With the budget that you have submitted to Parliament, you have put an end to the possibility of methodological changes. You have put an end to the possibility for Sweden to go ahead. I think it is unfortunate, Staffan Eklöf, that you are standing here talking about new technology while actually doing nothing about it in reality.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-996	Madam President, I would like By its decision of 12 December, the Parliament has determined the total expenditure for category 23. Since the Swedish democrats' proposals for appropriations in the area of expenditure are above that level, we cannot reserve ourselves in favour of our proposal. Instead, I refer to our specific opinion, as Staffan Eklöf did in the past. Like Staffan Eklöf, I would also like to support the reservations about the payment of farmers' aid and about aid for a relief service. For the Swedish Democrats, living rural areas are important. We are the whole party of Sweden and believe that rural areas have been overly obscured. We want to balance what we perceive as a big city fixation by to some extent turning the focus towards the Sweden that lies outside the metropolitan regions. But we want to stress carefully that we work with politics for the whole of Sweden. A very large part of Sweden's surface consists of rural and forest areas, streams, lakes, ponds, pastures, fields, mountains and deep valleys. Not least I know that as a frail, because we have all this in Fryksdalen. The only thing we're missing is mountains. Beautiful landscapes and traditional settlements are important in themselves, but for SD politics should primarily be about the people who live and work there all year round. Living and making a living in rural areas has become increasingly difficult. Many young people have no choice but to go to the cities, even though they would often have liked to stay in their home country. In many localities it has become far too difficult to keep small businesses going. Without a functioning business community, people disappear and with them shops, schools and other service facilities such as health centres. There is a wide range of important industries, and we call for general improvements for small businesses. However, we note that agriculture and forestry are central to society and the economy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are budgeting for a grazing allowance for grazing cows of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow and year in the new grant for animal welfare compensation where we invest 320 million. This is one way of compensating for the competitive disadvantage of Swedish dairy farmers vis-à-vis other countries in the internal market as a result of improved animal welfare and grazing requirements. Swedish agricultural and forestry companies pay more tax on fuel than they do in our neighbouring countries. It is a major competitive disadvantage. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats want to increase the refund of fuel tax for these companies, so that Swedish farmers reach the same level of taxation as Danish farmers. Tax on fuel is an important source of revenue for the state. But the loss of income is manageable because it is necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture. Madam President, I would like Sweden has very good conditions for food fish production, namely fish farming. It also has regional policy implications and sustainable jobs in rural areas. The survey The growing aquaculture country has clearly highlighted the potential of growing aquaculture. There is enormous potential in our country for aquaculture. The neighbouring country of Norway has 100 times as many aquaculture as we have in Sweden. There is every reason to develop it. Investments in aquaculture can lead to many jobs, not least in rural Sweden. But then the establishment of new fish farms must be facilitated and the preconditions for red tape and regulatory permits for existing and new farms developed and expanded to improve them. We are spending 25 million more than the government one, over the three-year period of 75 million more, on support measures for fish and aquaculture. Madam President, I would like Lands that grow again and buildings that mature can be restored and cared for long-term. Predators can be placed on land where they do the most natural and cultural conservation benefits. Species-rich roadsides and mowing meadows benefit from mowing and harvesting. In an open and active landscape with well-preserved barns, grazing animals and visible water mirrors, wildlife as well as plants, humans and their livestock thrive. The compensation to farmers for the management of natural and cultural environments provides cost-effective environmental benefits. From both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Forest Agency and the National Antiquarie Office there are different forms of support to be applied for to restore and maintain various cultural environments. In the past, the project selected the environment in the Rural Programme as an opportunity to replace the restoration of cultural and landscape conservation objects in the agricultural landscape. The Swedish Democrats want to review the possibility of reintroducing such restoration aid. In view of the above, the Government should also review the possibility of developing a larger and more targeted support for restorations of old barns and outbuildings, so-called overlap buildings, which are no longer used or needed for the operation of the farm. In terms of compensation for wild game injuries and more budget the Swedish Democrats 5 million more than the government, 15 million more over a three-year period. It is for the costs of preventing damage to wild game and compensation for such damage. For the Swedish Democrats, well-functioning game management is important, not only to reduce the number of wildlife traffic accidents or damage to crops, forests or domestic animals. The hunt is also important for a long-term healthy and sustainable game population. Today's game conservation policy has some unsolved knots. We believe that it can work better. The Swedish Democrats want the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to be freed from its mission around game and hunting and instead create a new authority responsible for these issues. In 2015, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government that a game agency should be established. But nothing has happened in the matter since then. The management of wild animals needs a fresh start and a competent authority that can streamline operations and work flexibly. Today we have more game in Sweden than we have in centuries. Then it is important that the exercise of authority is adapted to this.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1012	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to understand the ambiguities of the Swedish Democrats. You want to eat the cake and keep it. They have both supported the M-KD budget and have their own proposals. That is why I wanted to ask Runar Filer a question about his speech, for which I would like to thank him. Runar Filer talks about the people in the countryside and how problematic it is there. The fact is that the cuts made in the budget allocation under the Swedish Forest Agency and in forestry efforts affect the opportunities for rural people to get jobs. Overall, in both this area and category 20, we expect the Swedish countryside to lose over 7 000 jobs within a two-year period. I wonder if this is something that the Swedish Democrats are behind.
i-N9aUwt86ufv8JQhb5bCJCH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Maria Gardfjell! The Swedish Democrats stand for a forestry policy that favours forest use and respects property rights. It's very important. If you own something, you want to keep it and benefit from it. Continued work and employment are important to us. We want to give priority to research and development over reserves and restrictions on use. Information is also important to get instead of it being detailed laws and rules that govern. We put ownership in absolute priority for Swedish forestry. Forests that cannot be produced are an indirect cost. It becomes inefficient not to be able to benefit from the production that one could have when it is stopped by, for example, the Green Party.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1017	Madam President, I would like Ownership rights are not in any way adversely affected by the creation of new green jobs that forestry can benefit from. The green jobs that are now being lost actually involved developing the skills of forestry. It was an opportunity to get done the work that needs to be done in the Swedish forest in order for the forest industry to function as it should. Runar Filer raises another question, that grazing animals are important in areas where conservation benefits can be achieved. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats halved the appropriations for grazing, grazing and mowing. The risk is therefore very great that Sweden will grow again.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1019	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to preserve the Swedish forestry model. We respect it and think it is good, with two overall and equal goals – environmental and production goals. We also have a rural policy that the Green Party completely lacks. We want the general payroll tax to be removed for the smallest entrepreneurs, so that they receive incentives for new entrants. We want less bureaucracy and simpler rules. We do not want to introduce the road-wear tax that the Green Party is defending. It would hit places that do not have the infrastructure that other towns have, such as rail. Animal welfare payments are very important, as is the reduction of taxes on agriculture and forestry. We want less red tape for forest owners and less regulatory burden for farmers. At EU entry, a farmer had 200 rules to relate to. Now it's 600.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1023	We Presidents have the ambition to keep the order that has been decided. That is why we are clearing up or making a few small comments to remind you that we in this House speak through the Presidents and do not use you without your first and last names. I'm sorry if you think it's a little troubling. It is simply an attempt to work together.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1025	Madam President, I would like Today, Category 23 Areella industries are being debated. It is a collective name of industries that cover large geographical areas on land or in water. Examples of economic activity include forestry, agriculture and the fishing industry. There are also industries that make use of nature's expanses and views, such as nature and ecotourism. One of its main sources of income is the natural experiences that fit into natural ecosystems. I would like to regard nature itself as an area of nourishment. It is surface-related and provides us with services that are vital, such as clean water and air, but also recreation that increases quality of life and makes us healthier and happier. The only problem with ecosystem services is that they are free. So we do not have to occupy ourselves 40 hours a week in order to create photosynthesis and make the nutrient cycle go together. Therefore, there are no jobs, no monetary gains, no logos that can be spread to international arenas and put Sweden on the map. No, nature just is. Nature is only a prerequisite for our entire well-being. And from a narrow perspective, what is priceless can become worthless. One way, Madam President, to try to bring together the real industries that generate monetary values with those who do not, but which provide us with their free ecosystem services, is to try to find a good balance between exploitation and conservation. We need sustainable agriculture where planetary borders are respected. This is a major challenge for forestry, among other things, and two things are needed to achieve this. Firstly, we must set aside enough natural and forest resources for protection. We have to step up from 5% protected productive forest land to our 20% intermediate target. Secondly, forests must be managed in a sustainable manner. We know today that felling and soil preparation are among the most destructive things we can do to biodiversity. More than 1 800 species are under threat as a result of these measures. We must therefore change forestry and increase the proportion of non-polluter pays. We can only do this by cooperating. We in here need to work together. There must be cooperation between the state, the municipality, the church, industry and not least, Madam President, our private forest operators. About 50% of the forest is owned by private forest operators. Through their different roles and their way of working the forest, they have given Sweden a little more varied forestry. Madam President, I would like Today, there is freedom under responsibility in the forestry industry. It is almost an unreasonable responsibility to put the current forestry policy on the shoulders of the individual user. I know that many forest owners are doing their very best to manage the forest in a considerate way. But as the Forest Protection Act is written, the person in question must have a great knowledge of biology and ecology, ancient and cultural monuments and law. Therefore, the state must help to provide a knowledge base to these landowners. One name for the most natural-valued forest areas is the key biotope. There, both ecological structures and the presence of species are assessed, and the inventory is carried out by nature-readable biologists at Skogsstyrelsen. The base makes it easier for the forest owner to know what is safe and what is not. This is something that needs to be done systematically. The key biotop inventory should not be considered as a policy more than what a car inspection or medical check-up is considered to be. It's about a knowledge base. To say no to knowledge is to put your head in the sand. It does not solve any problems, and it is directly irresponsible. What we choose to do with knowledge, however, is politics. It is our responsibility to discuss this. Madam President, I would like For me as an environmental party, it is obvious that it should be easy to do the right thing, especially when it comes to nature conservation and forestry. Of course, our environmental heroes in rural areas must receive a reasonable reward for not felling biologically valuable and protective forests. Rather, they contribute to the development of natural values over time. Therefore, I myself have put forward a motion to investigate a bonus – Malus system for land use where those who care for and protect nature will benefit financially while those who exploit highly protected natural areas will pay. What is clear from M's and KD's budget is that they do not want to replace our environmental heroes in rural areas even though they are expected to make a major contribution. Madam President, I would like There will be a double punishment for those landowners who want to do the right thing when both the grounds and the compensation disappear. The protected forest remains, no matter how much M and KD wish they didn't have to take responsibility for it. When M and KD cut the grant of SEK 200 million and excuse it by wanting to increase efficiency, they mean that landowners should do it out of pure goodwill. Either there is a lack of an overall picture of forestry in Sweden or there is a lack of respect for all those landowners who are already making an important contribution to the farm. As M and KD cut down and halve the complementary efforts to protect valuable nature and measures for valuable nature, we are further removed from our environmental objectives that require just that: more protection and more management. According to the assessment by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, it will not work, but the milestone for the protection of valuable nature will not be achieved by 2020. Madam President, I would like Because the situation is extremely difficult right now, I and my colleagues will put our full political effort into ensuring that Sweden's environmental heroes in rural areas receive the appreciation and compensation they deserve in the fight to achieve our national and international commitments.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1041	Madam President, I would like I will begin with the objective of Category 23. The aim is to contribute to good conditions for work, growth and well-being in all parts of the country. Green industries should be viable and contribute to climate change and sustainable use of natural resources. This is just to keep our goals in mind. I'm going to talk a little about the eel, because I started yesterday with a seminar organised by Baltic Eye, where researchers in the field participated and told about the condition of the eel in the world. And then there's Christmas. We know this, so I don't really have to say it again: the eel is acutely endangered, but we are still fishing it. It rhymes very badly with the use of natural resources sustainably. Fishing an acute endangered species is unsustainable. There are fewer and fewer eels each year. Soon there are so few that reproduction is no longer possible. And yet we continue to fish eel in Sweden. Sweden is politically divided in its view of how to secure the future of the eel. It is not more research that is needed, what is needed is that we politicians decide that we want to keep the eel as a species. If we want to save the eel as a species, we need to agree that this is exactly what we want and then listen to the researchers and do as they have said in order for there to be a chance. Stop fishing eel, simply! A year ago, in the EU, it was decided to stop fishing for three months a year. It is a step along the way but, according to the government's will then, we would have been able to go to the EU and say that we in Sweden now stop fishing for eel and at the same time ask what you intend to do to preserve this endangered species. The way things look right now, we can choose to stop fishing for three months of the year. We can choose to have it during the three months when no fishing would have taken place. Then the effect of an agreement will be completely ineffective. We must not choose the best alternative, that is, the time period when the blank eel wanders down to the Sargasso Sea, which is in the high summer. But we should put our stop to fishing as close as possible to that period of time, i.e. September to November. I think that will prove to be the case if we want to achieve our objective of using natural resources sustainably or not. Of course, it is best if we can agree to stop fishing for an endangered species. Can we? We often say that we should listen to the research and, as far as possible, follow the advice given to us by the researchers. In the last 15 years, ICES has said that all fishing for eel should stop if we want to retain the species. So my question to all of us here is: do we want to keep the eel as a species on the planet, or do we want to keep it right now on our Christmas dinner? If we want to keep the eel as a species on the planet, there are possibilities that the latter may be back on our Christmas dinner. If we want to keep it on our Christmas dinner now, there's nothing out there for the eel. First of all, I wish that we would all, together, do everything we can to stop climate change. My next wish is that there should be no eel at any Christmas dinner. There is a fish called clarias, which is grown in closed systems indoors. Smoked clarias is a delicacy that is at least as good as the eel and that we can have on the Christmas table instead. In this way we can give fish farming in closed systems indoors, perhaps in old barns, a boost in development. Farmers who need more bones to stand on may have another source of income. Small businesses in rural areas can thus get a boost when empty barns can be filled with fish farming in recirculating sustainable systems without emissions. At the same time, we are making sure to stop eating an endangered species. It simply becomes a win-win situation.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1053	This is a budget debate. Of course, we must stick to the subject under discussion. We have tried to find out whether the budget contained anything about what the honourable Member talked about but did not find it.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1054	Madam President, I would like As the last speaker in the budget debate on agriculture, rural areas and food, I will try to create some Christmas peace throughout the area. Although it may seem that opinions differ when all parties present their positions, there are areas where we agree, namely when it comes to monitoring and evaluating the results presented by the government. It is the responsibility of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to report on this and, as chairman of the follow-up group, it has fallen to me to do so and to present the observations we have made. The other day I presented a similar follow-up to the expenditure on environment and nature conservation. We were basically satisfied. There wasn't much worth improving. On the other hand, with regard to today's field, we think there is something else to be desired. This is particularly true in order for us to be able to carry out the task prescribed by the Government and the Budget Act. The comments we make are not due to the fact that we have a transitional government that is behind the budget, but rather something that the committee has noted and presented to the government in recent years. We therefore hope and expect that a future government will take on board this message and will continue to analyse whether the policies it has pursued can in fact be said to have had an impact and have contributed to achieving the objectives in this area. That is what we in the committees are in a position to take a position on. This year, in the analysis, we have focused on a performance area called A competitive and sustainable food chain. Some trends that may be interesting to mention are that the number of food businesses, especially in the beverage sector, is increasing, while the number of farms has decreased by 13% over the last ten years. The use of antibiotics has decreased by 36 per cent between 2005 and 2015. Food exports are increasing. The share of organic food sold in the public market increased by 15 per cent in 2017. The University of Agriculture and the issue of competence have also been raised. We can now see that you attract a little more students, and the proportion that completes the studies is high. The competitive and sustainable food chain performance area covers a great many areas. It also includes the food strategy adopted a year and a half ago. We are particularly pleased that the Government reports on how the implementation and effects of the food strategy can be followed from the start. On the other hand, we are surprised by other parts. This applies, for example, to why the government no longer reports data on how the work on regulatory simplification continues. There is also a lack of information on the progress of the CAP. This is an area that includes the Swedish Board of Agriculture's payments from the EU but also the fulfilment of several environmental objectives and rural development objectives. In view of the attention given to some of these issues, we think it would be interesting to take note of the government's own analysis of the area and whether it considers that the measures taken had the intended effect. Finally, in order to learn more about the future, we think there is a need for an in-depth account of the management of the drought that this year affected Sweden's farmers. Not only does the financial contribution presented need to be accounted for, but we also want an analysis of measures that may need to be taken in addition to them. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to express my thanks to all the party representatives in the evaluation group and to the officials who have assisted us well. I hope for continued good cooperation. Finally, I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1067	Madam President, I would like I have just one comment to make on Betty Malmberg. I think there might have been a slight error in what Betty Malmberg said. She referred to the transitional budget and that the evaluation team had based it on the drafting of this document. However, the problem was, Madam President, that this was adopted before we knew it would be an M-KD budget. That makes it a little problematic. We approved this in committee in the light of the fact that it would clearly appear in the document that we had the wrong basis in front of us when we came up with this. This, of course, affects the views that could be expressed and the issues that should be assessed more carefully. I hope, however, that it will be good in the end. Betty Malmberg did not make all this clear.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1071	Madam President, I would like It is true that such a discussion came up, and that is also stated in the document. At the end of the day, this is a follow-up to the results of the transitional budget. We have no other mission. What Maria Gardfjell is thinking is about what follow-ups and evaluations can be made. However, what we have now presented and which the committee has decided and supported is the report of results presented by the transitional government in the transitional budget. I hope there will be no misunderstanding about that.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1074	Madam President, I would like It is undeniably important to weigh the words. What was said in the speaker's chair was that we have a transitional budget, and we do not have that, after all. I would also like to say, Madam President, that I think the mark that was made earlier on fisheries issues was a little unhappy, because fishing and fish farming belong to this area. And previous speakers who have talked about this area have not been stopped by the President.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1076	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure we're going to extend the discussion. Our mission in Parliament's committees is, as I said, to follow up and evaluate the results presented to us in a budget bill. It was then in the transitional government's budget bill that the profit and loss account was available. That is why I refer to it.
i-ecff8e011c2539ba-1077	I can only say that nobody was stopped in the debate. The speech was completed and the intended line was withdrawn. So no one was stopped. I'm saying that for the sake of clarity.
