i-bb7a561731329f7e-0	Mr President, I would like to Last week the European Council met in Brussels. The discussion on Wednesday evening was devoted to negotiations with the UK on the withdrawal from the EU. On Thursday, we reviewed the state of negotiations on migration, EU internal security and foreign relations. An informal euro summit was also held on Thursday, where countries that do not have the euro as their currency had also been invited. As you know, I was unable to attend this meeting due to the domestic political conditions at home. Mr President, I would like to So we started with Brexit. Prime Minister May had been invited to present his views on the negotiations. She signaled both optimism and a willingness to resolve the Irish question. At the same time, however, it was clear that Britain's expectations on how to resolve the Ireland issue are still far from what the EU can offer. The Mays government is still opposed to the EU's proposal to allow Northern Ireland to continue to apply the EU's customs rules to goods and agricultural products. The British do not want to see any kind of controls between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom. The consequence of this would instead be border posts between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, which not least the Irish want to avoid at all costs. So, after Prime Minister Mays's report, we were able to see that much remains to be done. In the ensuing discussion, without Theresa May, we were once again able to note that the EU-27 is united behind Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier and the continuing endeavour to avoid a border being set on the Irish island. After all, the parties have come a long way in the negotiations. I and others with me stressed the importance of allowing the process to take the necessary time, with the limitations that still exist. We agreed that we should not already decide on an extraordinary summit in November, but that progress in the negotiations should determine when we will see each other next time. The ball is currently with Prime Minister May, and I hope that the negotiations can get started soon. Mr President, I would like to On Thursday, the European Council again discussed migration. The discussion focused mainly on monitoring progress in the Council's work since June. Migration issues, as I have said several times, require a holistic approach. The solutions include an EU-wide migration policy, effective cooperation against trafficking in human beings with better border protection and long-term cooperation with the countries in our neighbourhood. This has been said by me and several others at the last meetings, and I now made this mark again. The Austrian Chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, reported on the progress of the negotiations on the various legislative acts. Here it was clear that the parties are still a long way apart as regards the Dublin Regulation's part of the Common Asylum System. The Chancellor said it was time to consider other forms of solidarity than the compulsory distribution of refugees in a future refugee crisis, but there is no majority in favour of such a solution. As far as I am concerned, I have repeated on several occasions that, if Schengen cooperation is to work in practice, we must find a common and fair solution for asylum seekers also in future crises. It cannot just be up to some countries to take that responsibility. As far as the protection of our external borders is concerned, the work is progressing. The meeting also provided broad support for enhanced and improved cooperation with transit and countries of origin. Mr President, I would like to We also followed up the discussion on internal security that we launched at our informal meeting in Salzburg in September. This is, of course, an area on which cooperation is becoming increasingly important. The emphasis here was on initiatives in cyber and information security in particular and on the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities. The EU must combat radicalisation online. Then the exchange of electronic evidence is an important tool. It is important that this work is progressing, but at the same time Sweden and other countries have stated that the proposals must not undermine freedom of expression and fundamental human rights. Mr President, I would like to The third agenda item concerned our foreign policy relations. There was a good discussion and a broad consensus on the importance of closer cooperation with Africa, not least with the North African countries. We are now aiming at the meeting between the EU and several African states in December, as well as at the summit with the Arab League on 24-25 February. For the government, it is important that this work be long-term and that it be based on mutual interests. Mr President, I would like to The latest Climate Panel report on the impact of climate change is very alarming, and this shows that all countries and sectors must do their utmost to contribute to the reduction of emissions. It was therefore a good thing that the European Council was able to endorse the ambitious conclusions of the Environment Ministers in the preparation of the Katowice climate summit in December. Mr President, I would like to Finally, as I said at the outset, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, had invited on short notice to an informal euro summit in an enlarged circle. No basis for this meeting had been developed. In particular, there was an oral debriefing from the President of the Eurogroup, Mr Centeno. As I said, I could not attend this lunch myself, but I can tell you that the meeting as expected did not result in any decisions. This, Mr President, was the report back from the European Council.
i-CsXMgGsWaNkbkY6P8fDjWN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from the summit. At the same time as the summit was in progress, the Khashoggian valley continued. Saudi opposition representative Jamal Khashoggi has been murdered at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. This has now also become a European issue. The German Government and Chancellor Merkel have spoken out in favour of an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, that is to say the suspension of arms supplies to the country. The German Minister for Economic Affairs, Peter Altmaier, is now calling on other EU countries to follow suit in order to have an EU policy to end arms exports to Saudi Arabia. The brutal and terrible incident directed at Khashoggi is not an isolated event. There is a pattern of oppression against dissidents. Saudi Arabia also wages a cruel war in Yemen, bombing schools, school buses and hospitals. Saudi Arabia is also a known dictatorship. There should be good grounds for joint action. The European Union has a common framework for arms exports. It has an embargo list, which bans arms exports to Iran, Russia and Sudan, for example. So now there is a direct call – it is EU policy at the highest level – for other EU countries to join forces with Germany and to act together to stop arms exports to Saudi Arabia. My question to the Prime Minister is this: was this issue raised, formally or informally, in talks with the other representatives at the summit, and is the Prime Minister prepared to support this initiative by the German Government?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-19	Mr President, I would like to Jamal Khashoggi's fate is very, very serious. The information we have received is absurd. That is why the first thing we naturally support the European Union in, and as the High Representative, Mr Mogherini, has said, is that a really thorough, credible and transparent investigation must be carried out so that we can know exactly what happened. That's the first thing. I believe that what the EU's common positions, conclusions, will be, will be followed by the investigation. As is well known, Sweden has a new legislation for arms exports. It aims to make exports to countries that do not stand up for human rights and countries where democratic rights are questionable. However, this also means that each export transaction must be examined separately. That's what the law looks like. That's what we have to deal with. With regard to exactly what common EU conclusions this might be, I would therefore like to await. What is important now is what Sweden has expressed directly to Saudi Arabia – here at the embassy, to the ambassador – and which has been expressed in cooperation with the other EU countries: here it must be a very thorough and transparent investigation, so that we can find out the truth. Then the concrete conclusions will be drawn.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-23	Mr President, I would like to There is no longer any doubt that this was a cold-blooded and planned murder by the Saudi state apparatus. This is not the first time a political representative has been removed by the Saudi secret services. We also know that Saudi society is permeated by political oppression. How Saudi Arabia is governed is like an original image of the dictatorship. In addition, it is a country that is engaged in a brutal war, which is driving people on the run in Yemen. I believe that Swedish arms export legislation is far too weak. The mere fact that we export weapons to Saudi Arabia is a sign of that. Political reactions are now required. It takes leadership, as I think the German Government has shown. I would have liked the Prime Minister to have made the same clear statement and said: if it turns out now that this is a planned and premeditated murder, there must be consequences, for example in the form of an EU arms embargo.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-25	Mr President, I would like to The tasks we have are terrible and, as I say, horribly. Therefore, a thorough investigation must be carried out. That's the first thing. Then Swedish arms legislation is of this kind. We have just adopted it in this House, and that is the legislation we have. The reason it came into being was that it would be more difficult for those countries that do not stand up for democracy and human rights. It would be harder for them. And this is what the authority has to test in these cases. But there is no doubt: we are just as upset about what seems to have happened in all probability. But let the investigation still be completed – this so that we really, really know.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. I would first like to mention not only but also regret that the European Union and the United Kingdom were unable to make any further progress this time and that the risk of a so-called no deal or hard Brexit is growing every day. I tried to hear some positive parts of what the Prime Minister said. We agree on how important it is for Sweden and for the EU to have as good a relationship as possible with the UK even after a withdrawal. But the issue I want to dwell on is the issue of migration, which was also discussed at the European Council this time. Unfortunately, it is clear that the conclusions adopted on migration policy rather signal a reduction in ambition in the negotiations on the so-called asylum package – and those negotiations have been going on for almost two and a half years. When I listen to the Prime Minister, it sounds like we have to wait. We will somehow wait, take small, small steps and try to move on. We shall wait and see if agreement can be reached in the European Union before we possibly move forward with further national reforms in the area of migration. What we Moderates see is that we cannot just sit and wait and hope that Europe will solve these problems for us. We believe that our own migration policy needs to be tightened up in a number of ways. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what conclusion he draws from what I see as a clear reduction in ambition as regards the possibility of concluding negotiations on the so-called asylum package.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-30	Mr President, I would like to First, it concerns the EU and the United Kingdom. I share that view. I'd rather we had a deal. After all, however, we should see what Prime Minister May described in the UK Parliament. It's still 95% that she judges as clear. The big issue is Ireland and Northern Ireland and that border. It's probably that complicated, so it shouldn't be underestimated. Nevertheless, considerable progress has been made. As far as the United Kingdom and Sweden are concerned, it is clear. We have a very good bilateral relationship. We have had several bilateral meetings and will probably have it in the future to make it as good as possible. Then there is the issue of migration. I do not share the view on a reduction in ambition. There are seven pieces of legislation that are under discussion. The difficult one is the Dublin Regulation. How are we to have the distribution among Member States of the refugees who will actually come to EU soil, so to speak? They will come to one of the EU countries. That will be the case in the future. Then we must take joint responsibility for it. That is why we are keeping this line. We agree on cooperation with our surrounding world, so to speak, not least African countries. We agree to strengthen cooperation at the external border. We will work together on the two points. Then we should also work together on the third issue, because refugees will come to Europe, to EU countries. So I do not share that view. For example, you can take the EU asylum authority or the asylum procedure regulation or the basic protection regulation. That job's in progress. It's on. I still believe that Sweden wants common legislation to be agreed in the EU. Then it is good that we wait for that legislation. We're in the process of designing it. Then we'll get it in place. Then we also know how the Swedish legislation should best be designed – so that we do not stand there again in a situation that we had in 2015. That's the motive.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-34	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Well, then I have to ask the question: what has the Prime Minister tried to record in the negotiations this time in order to try to convince the more reluctant Member States, if we may call them so, to agree on precisely what is the crux of the matter, namely the question of a more even and predictable reception of refugees? I'd like to know. Then I come back to Brexit. We have, I hope, the same goal here. But does the Prime Minister – on the basis of the meeting that took place last week – believe that Sweden, the Government, Sweden's companies and authorities should now signal that they should be more prepared and, if not trigger the plans for Brexit, still be clearer? How much to prepare for? And what is the government's responsibility in this?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-36	Mr President, I would like to On the question of recording in the negotiations, that is the line taken by Sweden. Sweden goes there with what we have agreed in Parliament, not least in the EU Council. What we have talked about, among other things, is the view of the next long-term budget. Several have expressed the view that those countries that do not take responsibility for this issue should see it in the multi-annual budget. There may also be other ways. So it is not the case that the discussion has stopped. It is, of course, conducted in a number of different directions, and we are taking the line that we agree on. However, the pressure on these countries should not be released prematurely. Nevertheless, I think, last and lastly, that a strong argument is the whole of EU cooperation and, not least, Schengen cooperation, which some countries are actually endangering. I don't think they want to. As far as Brexit is concerned, I presented this to the European Council. The government is preparing with the authorities. What could happen if there were no agreement?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-39	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. Europe's leadership has therefore once again decided to do something about the trafficking of human beings across the Mediterranean. It is incredible that this question can be in focus for so long without this government seem to learn anything at all along the way. According to a report by the UNHCR last year, seven out of ten migrants travelling to or through Libya say that they do so mainly for economic reasons. The Vice-President of the Commission – who is a social democrat – has quite openly acknowledged that a majority of those seeking asylum in Europe actually do so for economic reasons, and the Prime Minister himself seemed to admit something similar during the open hearing before the summit. Mr President, I would like to As long as the EU continues to maintain strong financial incentives to cross the Mediterranean irregularly, people will continue to try – it's just a matter of supply and demand. And as long as people try, people will drown. The parties in Europe and in this House who advocate a system which implicitly calls for life-threatening boat trips across the Mediterranean are also responsible for men, women and children at sea. It's not harder than that. In view of the plethora of human suffering, chaos, terrorist financing, corruption and waste caused by the current asylum system, why does the Prime Minister not want to go further and reform at European level away from incentives for irregular travel to a purely quota-refugee system?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-43	Mr President, I would like to For the most part, it is precisely trafficking in human beings that the whole of the EU is now working on, because people are dying in the Mediterranean. That's exactly why. There will always be people who have refugee reasons for Europe, and they will be tested. It is a right that we must always stand up for. What we are going to reduce is the number of so-called economic migrants, that is, those who, from their own point of view, want to improve their lives and therefore risk their lives on the Mediterranean. It is precisely for this reason that cooperation with, for example, the African countries has begun. It is for this reason that cooperation with Turkey and other countries has begun, and it is for this reason that this should be developed so that people are not forced into a deadly flight across the Mediterranean, but can actually see opportunities just as everyone else wants to do. You're supposed to have a place to live. Adult people should have a job. Children and young people should have an education. There should be water and sanitation. This very cooperation has been initiated for a long time. At the same time, I maintain in the European Council that if more countries than Sweden and a few other countries, perhaps three or possibly four, paid 0.7% of GDP in development aid, the situation might have been different. Now that is not the case, but it only shows the importance of long-term cooperation, which is just being started to this end. We will see to it that the business model that these unscrupulous smugglers actually use is destroyed. Then you remove the incentives for the deadly journeys. It has begun, it is strengthened and it must continue. It is one of the three legs of the common migration policy.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-47	Mr President, I would like to There is a very simple way to crush the crime syndicate's business model, and that is to remove the incentives to carry out these trips. Australia has succeeded in doing so in an excellent way. Europe can do the same, but this requires a rethinking of the common asylum system. As far as development aid is concerned, we have actually put the most generous aid budget in the last parliamentary term. There is something we do not need to discuss here, but at least we do as much on our side as we can. The fact remains, however, that as long as we allow people to seek asylum on this side of the Mediterranean, boat trips will continue. Travellers themselves do not always know whether or not they meet the requirements for asylum, and even if they did, they would not give up but try anyway.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-50	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has increased the share of quota refugees. We have jointly agreed to go up from 1 900 so-called quota refugees to 5 000. Sweden is also making a contribution there. Perhaps the Swedish Democrats do not want to realise this, but the fact remains that there will be people who have refugee reasons for European Member States, people who flee from misery, from oppression and from war and whose right to asylum will be tried. We are part of an international regulatory framework that at least the government and the majority of Parliament want to stand up for, and we will do so. On the other hand, the number of people fleeing for other reasons should be reduced, and the best way to do so is to work together to ensure that they too have long-term development in their own country that allows them to have hope for the future and do not need to take the dangerous path.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-53	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The UK and Sweden are close both within the Union and after they have left, and it is important that we maintain the good relationship. Therefore, one can be a little disappointed that there was not a deal already. At the same time, I think it is difficult at home for Theresa May, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. She has to show that she is really doing everything she can to deliver the demands that she is supposed to fight for. So perhaps we should not be so surprised that we did not get all the way this time but simply keep our spirits up and think that we will get to a good conclusion next time. It still feels quite hopeful given how poorly thought out this process started. The United Kingdom was not even able to present from the outset how they had planned their demands and negotiations. When the United Kingdom voted to leave the Union, however, some people in the European Union shed some bad blood. It began to speculate that more might want to follow and that it was important for Britain to have a bad deal so that others would be discouraged from going that way. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there are traces of this in the discussion that is now taking place within the European Union, or whether everyone agrees that everyone actually benefits from a good agreement. Has this process led to more people realizing how interwoven we are and how interdependent we really are, or does the Prime Minister see that this could have consequences and that the Union could have more withdrawal applications in the future?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-57	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that our countries are close to each other and that we have always agreed that it is a matter of ensuring that we keep to ourselves. We have also expressed this: to hold on in order to really achieve a solution. As I said earlier, I have had several bilaterals with Prime Minister May, and of course I will have that in the future too. As for the issue of bad blood, I don't think I see it. Of course, no one was happy, and some were less happy than others, if I express myself diplomatically. But I do not really see it in the discussions, but there is a real ambition to get along. That is also why we have extended the time. It could have been a decision, or several could have pushed that there is no reason to have a November summit. You could have pushed that now we're ignoring this, and now it's going to be the way it is. Instead, we are trying to see if we are going to have the next extraordinary summit at another time to still create opportunities. Of course, there will still be some limit. For example, the UK ratification process may take longer, so you still have to count on what is a reasonable time to look at on 29 March. However, we shall hold on for as long as possible, and Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier has the confidence of the European Council to really find solutions, especially for the Irish question that remains. I do not know any details about other countries, but in Sweden this has turned a little upside down. When we joined, the Swedish people had low confidence in the EU. Now it's increased quite dramatically. I think it is now 77% who are very or slightly in favour of the European Union, compared with under 40% at some point in the beginning, while other countries have gone down. So that looks a little different.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-61	Mr President, I would like to There is reason to remain hopeful. Another issue raised at the summit was climate and Agenda 2030 work. Internationally, it is clear that, following the Paris Agreement, the countries have made too few commitments. They are not enough to achieve the objectives set by the Paris Agreement, especially where we would have to go. How does the Prime Minister view the conclusions adopted by the Council and the discussions held at the meeting? Do they give reason to believe that the EU can play a leading role in getting more and more comprehensive climate commitments in place at COP 24 before Christmas?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-64	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I think so. There are, as you know, slightly different opinions within the European Union and shared ambitions. The European Council endorsed the conclusions adopted by the Council in this area. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a sufficient level of ambition for the EU to play a prominent role in Katowice. There is Sweden, along with several others, to the fore. That's how we want to stay. Sweden has a high reputation in this area, and we shall continue to be leading. Just look at the panel report, and you understand this. But it is not that everyone has exactly the same view. I still think I should be able to have an offensive role in Katowice.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-67	Mr President, I would like to Let me first thank the Prime Minister for the recent report he has submitted from the summit. I was thinking in this round of questions about two things. One is Brexit and the other is the issue of migration. First of all, as far as Brexit is concerned, it is unfortunate that there is not yet an agreement. It affects activities and people. Now the thing is what it is. I understand that during the European Council, a proposal was made by British Prime Minister Theresa May to extend the so-called transitional period. What does the Prime Minister say about the propaganda from Britain, and what do the other Heads of State or Government say about the proposal that was put forward? How would such a procedure, that is to say an extension of the transitional period, affect the long-term budget that is being discussed in parallel and on which negotiations have been opened in this context? My second question concerns migration. What is the Prime Minister's and EU's Plan B? It seems that the debate on the Dublin Regulation, for example, has not been forthcoming for a long time.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-72	Mr President, I would like to First there was the issue of Brexit. We share the view that it is unfortunate that there is no agreement. With regard to the discussion of extending the transitional period, there have been a few different messages. It is not the case that it was discussed at the European Council or that it was presented with a concrete proposal. On the other hand, this possibility has been put forward at slightly different times – of course it exists. Should it be the case that the EU-27 and the UK are in complete agreement, there is that possibility, but there is nothing formal about it. President Donald wrote afterwards that if Britain comes in with such a request, his assessment is that there are good opportunities. Mr Erlandsson asked one of the important questions, namely how the budget is affected. Then you get into the next budget period. I do not have the answers to those questions, but the budget is one of the things that needs to be sorted out. What happens then? How much is it going to cost Britain? What will the representation look like in Parliament, and so on? There are new questions, but where there is a will, there a way, as they say. Probably it's possible to fix it, too. My view is that there is a willingness to extend. Then there was the question of impregnation. There is no concrete, precise plan B. I think it is necessary to try to find out what will then be the alternative. I say again that six out of seven pieces of legislation appear to go well. It is the Dublin Regulation that is the difficult issue. It is just to make sure that somehow all countries take responsibility. We must hold on to that question.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your comments on my questions. Let me dwell on the issue of migration in this round of questions. Now we have been discussing the Dublin Regulation in particular for three four years. Reasonably, the Prime Minister must have a plan B of his own, considering that it is being discussed how to solve the issue and about all the people sitting in camps in Greece, for example. We know that there are a number of people in waiting stations, or what we should call them, on the African continent. There must be some thought about what to do. Let us hear the Prime Minister's answer to the reasoning I assume the Prime Minister has.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-77	Mr President, I would like to What we agree on are the three parts I have spoken about. Here it is important to have good cooperation with the countries in our neighbourhood, so that fewer people need to flee at all. Furthermore, it is about strengthening the external border so that it works really well. Finally, it is a question of helping each other. The third component you can't get away from. Whatever Hungary and other countries say, refugees will come to the Member States of the European Union. I don't want to go back to the situation where a few will take responsibility. That's why the pressure must remain on them. We have a desire to resolve the situation, but quite reasonably so on the other edge as well. If the situation is not resolved, Schengen cooperation will be damaged. EU cooperation will then be damaged. They have to see that, too. The exact solution cannot only be pulled out of the pocket, but we are deeply involved with several countries in finding a solution.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-80	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for reporting back. The starting point of the Christian Democrats' migration policy is to protect the right of asylum and that the EU has a moral responsibility to help people escape. Basically, it's about humanity. At the same time, we know that smugglers and traffickers have put systems in place to exploit the situation, and risky journeys are the reason why more people are drowning today, even though fewer people are trying to cross over to the EU. The European Union should give priority to and step up efforts to save lives in the Mediterranean and strengthen its efforts to combat criminal networks and traffickers. EU agreements with Libya were concluded to stop irregular journeys between North Africa and Europe, often organised by refugee smugglers. After the fall of Gaddafis in 2011, the country is still plagued by political instability, lawlessness and chaos. No government has control over the country, where several criminal networks and Islamic organisations have established themselves in the country.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-86	Mr President, I would like to I share the view expressed by Robert Halef. That is exactly the balance that I think most of us agree on – to protect the right of asylum but also to reduce the opportunities for traffickers to make money out of human fate and death on the Mediterranean. That is why I believe that the right strategy is the three-tiered one, that is, cooperation in our neighbourhood, an external border and then cooperation within the European Union once people have come here. Saving lives and fighting smuggling has been one of the more important ingredients, precisely because people should not take these dangerous roads and the totally unscrupulous traffickers should not make a lot of money by sending people out on the Mediterranean – often almost certain that they will die. One example is cooperation in Libya. It is quite correct that Libya is not a stable democracy in any way, but has much left. Nevertheless, the UN is committed to Libya in order to make the state, the whole state apparatus and democracy work. It will certainly take time, but there is a commitment to this. Combined with this, we have, for example, the refugee camps in Libya, as in other countries. How can we, together with the IOM and UNHCR, ensure that the conditions for people in these camps are as good as possible in a difficult situation? We also have support for and assistance in training the coastguards in Libya, which is also not, as it were, fully-fledged. It needs a lot, but if Libya is to gain control of its coastal area at some point, it must have a coastguard. There are some examples in Libya that are based on these elements, and it is important to see that whole. This requires both a stable democracy and a functioning border guard.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-92	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. A few words have been said earlier in this report from the European Council on the Dublin Regulation. My second question concerns the Dublin Regulation as a common functioning migration policy asylum system. It has proved unsustainable and contributes to the unfair distribution of asylum seekers. Mr President, I would like to It is important that all countries assume their responsibilities for asylum seekers and create more legal pathways for people on the run. The Christian Democrats therefore welcome the reform work for a new European asylum system. However, there is a great deal of disagreement about how this should happen, and the work is slow. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the Prime Minister think that the Dublin Regulation should be reformed in order to achieve a sustainable, fair and common European asylum system?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-96	Mr President, I would like to What we have sought, the government and the majority here, is for all countries to say both that they are prepared to cooperate so that fewer people will be forced to go to the external border and a better life here and that they will take joint responsibility for those seeking asylum in EU Member States. That is what we have sought in what has proved to be the most difficult issue in the whole migration policy. Some countries – Hungary, Poland and others – say that they do not want migration across the board. They make statements of the species If you make such statements – that migration is, not or illegal, but, by definition, is, it is clear, that you have that attitude. Therefore, pressure must remain on these countries. We can't let any of you say that you're going to have to take care of it, but you're going to have to keep the pressure on it. We are trying to find other solutions.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-98	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for the statement of another European summit! It cannot be said that this last summit led to any success on two of the big and heavy issues, which are migration and Brexit. When Theresa May declared that 95% is now clear, we can perhaps assume that the remaining 5% will not be only 5% of the time invested without much left. However, I am pleased that the Prime Minister at least says that although it has not been called for a new meeting on Brexit, it cannot be ruled out that there is still the possibility of such a meeting. Clearly, the EU's focus on migration policy continues to be on external border protection, that is, on the EU's external borders. Then it is extremely sad that the European Commission is now doing Sweden on 95 points when it comes to our own border protection and how we handle it. That question was raised when we consulted for this meeting, and I pointed out once again that the Liberals think it would be a good thing to have an EU-wide external border protection. The Prime Minister then said that our own border protection was quite sufficient, so we did not have to look at that issue any further. I have a question relating to the difficult issue linked to the migration discussions, that is to say the issue of the redistribution of refugees. Unfortunately, there was no progress, but I understood that the Prime Minister said in his report that other forms of solidarity must now be investigated. I would like the Prime Minister to explain what he meant. I am not sure I understood it correctly, but I am addressing it as a question addressed to the Prime Minister.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-104	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to confirming a possible second summit, we await the negotiations. Once they've gone well enough, we're ready. As for whether an external border is fully adequate or not, I do not know whether I expressed myself exactly that way. On the other hand, it is a country's duty to keep track of its external border. Now we have an evaluation, and we will see what the final report says. But it is clear that we should do what is necessary to protect our border and the external border. Let me remind you that this is precisely about the outer border. As far as other forms of solidarity are concerned, it was Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz who put it. I think he used the expression 'compulsory solidarity'. We heard a number of different expressions such as flexible solidarity and compulsory solidarity, but I understood clearly that the majority believe that it does not matter. We can change concepts and come up with new ones, but we must somehow get to the substance, to the core, where all countries take responsibility for this. There was no majority in favour of this. Nevertheless, that is why I think that the pressure on the most reluctant countries must remain so that, in the event of a future real crisis, we do not come back to a situation where Sweden and a few other countries have to take on as much responsibility as we did in autumn 2015. That is where we cannot come again, and that is what surrounds the whole discussion from our edge.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-108	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It was good to get that clarification. When it comes to compulsory solidarity, or whatever you call it, I also believe that it is ultimately a common asylum policy and a common migration policy that we must have in Europe if we are to be able to resolve this. And when we talk about migration, we should not see it as a bad thing, but rather see the possibilities in it. But it is a commitment for all 28 EU countries. There was also an item on the agenda on external relations. We discussed it before the Prime Minister left, and the question specifically concerned Russia. I would like to hear whether the question of Russia was up and how it sounds now. Is there still agreement on the sanctions that exist and on maintaining the pressure on Russia as it has been? I cannot help mentioning what came out last week about the events at the Saudi Arabian Embassy in Turkey, which outperforms fiction. I do not think that any detective writer could present such a scenario of credibility. As Jonas Sjöstedt pointed out earlier, we very much want to act on behalf of the European Union when it comes to condemnation. We are waiting for evaluations, but not too much Sweden has the opportunity to put the heel down on the slopes like Merkel. I want to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about that.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-113	Mr President, I would like to I'll start at that end. Sweden, as a nation and together with the European Community, has expressed the need for a thorough, transparent and credible investigation, so that we can have full clarity about what has happened and then draw the right conclusions. But I fully share Tina Acketoft's view-- you don't think that's true. But it may well be true, so let's get it on the table. As far as external relations are concerned, Russia was not up for discussion this time, but that does not mean that this issue has been removed. It may well recur that sanctions should be reduced, mitigated or changed in some other way. The majority believe that nothing has happened that would justify a change in sanctions at this stage. But, again, I won't swear that there can't come up with such suggestions.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-115	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. I would like to highlight the issue of climate change. The UN Panel on Climate Change's special report shows the big difference between 1.5 and 2 degrees. The consequences are very serious already at 1.5 degrees yours, both for the future and for our present welfare. It is very gratifying that the European Council has endorsed various conclusions and takes note of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change's conclusion: that climate change has a very negative impact and that it is necessary to act and reduce emissions in all sectors. It is also extremely gratifying that the conclusions that the climate summit in Poland must result in ambitious and comprehensive implementation rules and that all Member States take responsibility went through. But I also wonder whether there were informal discussions just about the 1.5 degree target and whether to push for it, and whether Sweden is taking the lead in this.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-118	Mr President, I would like to The European Council clearly endorsed the Council's conclusions, and that is how far cooperation is currently taking place. I believe, however, that it is of course important that we continue after this – during the meeting in Katowice, but also after that. It is about never giving up and building on the fact that this is, of course, for present-day generations, but also for future generations. That is simply our damn duty. It is also the case that this is the future. This is real success; this is how we build our new economy. We have to lie in there. Sweden should be at the forefront of this discussion and is also aware of that. We are respected for this, not only in Europe but around the world. I think it is good that we have broad agreement on this. We did not discuss you in detail in detail, but I pointed to the climate panel's conclusion: the huge difference, which is also mentioned by Amanda Palmstierna. It's bad enough 1.5 degrees. We intend to be a driving force on this issue, and we are running it together with several other countries that are like minded.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I would also like, like so many others here, to highlight the issue of migration. There are many discussions about strengthening the external borders, and then the humane, legally secure asylum system is extremely important and something that Sweden has long stood up for. I would like to hear more about how the discussions went about the very legal, humane and humane aspects of this whole package.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-124	Mr President, I would like to Both dimensions are present. Even here, as we know, it looks a little different. By definition, if you say that migration is bad, you don't think so much about the humane. But we and many other countries do and see that this is the right balance. It is clear that we need to see that these are humane issues – a fundamental humanitarian approach must be taken. With regard to those people who are actually forced to flee and embark on deadly journeys, it is also humanitarian to ensure that they do not have to do so and take this dangerous route across the Mediterranean. It is important that we take joint responsibility. That is when we can really say that we can stand up for the humanitarian.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-126	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister. My question concerns the European asylum system. I know that the Swedish Government has long advocated a binding mechanism which automatically distributes refugees between EU Member States. Our moral responsibility to help fellow refugees is, of course, shared by all the Member States, not just by a few. At the same time, it is easy to understand those Member States that are keen to be able to pursue a responsible and sustainable migration policy in the future as well. The Swedish line has also met strong resistance within the EU. Member States such as Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland have clearly rejected the proposal for mandatory refugee quotas within the EU, as has the President of the European Council Donald Tusk in the past. Against this background, how does Prime Minister Stefan Löfven estimate the prospect of success with the proposal for mandatory refugee quotas in the EU?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-129	Mr President, I would like to That question can be answered directly: It is no secret that it is difficult. But even these Member States still need a solution. You can choose to sit back and not find a solution, but you have ahead of you Schengen cooperation and a European cooperation that is cracking. It is not in their interest either. During the journey different variants have been discussed with different levels. In a normal situation, countries accept people just as they come, but in a more serious situation or a crisis a distribution takes place. This was tried, for example, during the Bulgarian Presidency. It would therefore be about finding different levels and thus softening the resistance. This has been unsuccessful so far. Nevertheless, this must continue. To turn around and say that they do not have to take any responsibility at all is not right, in my opinion. We must continue and try to find solutions to this, but also to the question of what the price tag will be for those who ultimately do not share responsibility and solidarity. That is why we have also included the discussion on the future MFF, that is, the long-term budget. What will it cost a country that chooses not to join? Last and lastly, there must be enough people sharing this responsibility. We cannot end up in the same situation again: that it is Sweden and Germany and something or a few other countries. It's not sustainable. We must also have a migration policy that is sustainable here so that the Swedish people say that this works and is long-term and sustainable.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-133	Mr President, I would like to Today's asylum system rewards those who can afford to pay refugees smugglers dearly and those who have the power to carry out the deadly voyages across the sea. As a result, more than 25 000 people have drowned in the Mediterranean over the last ten years. As a result, women, the poor, the elderly and the sick have been left in refugee camps to a greater extent. This, of course, is not morally justifiable. A new asylum system needs to be put in place, as soon as possible. My question to the Prime Minister is whether it would perhaps increase the chance for the EU to agree on a common asylum system – with joint reception centres and safe routes to the EU – if the size of asylum quotas were left to be determined by the individual Member States themselves. If so, could this be a way to try to put an end to death in the Mediterranean?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-135	Mr President, I would like to Christian Carlsson addresses just what is one of the core issues here: How do you stop the incentives of human traffickers to put people on these deadly journeys? Reception centres have been discussed and discussed. It is just that none of the African countries is interested in just becoming a country to which people are sent. There are some preconditions for this, and we have also mentioned this. Of course, we can try that thought, but then the conditions there must be of the kind that this is humane and good. Of course, these countries also need to be involved in this. One condition for them to do so is that there are reception centres also on European soil, where we have not yet seen any willingness. It is not a country that has expressed its readiness to do so. At the moment, therefore, that question is stomping.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-138	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The Council noted that progress has been made in the area of internal security in the EU. This is fundamentally positive. However, it was also discussed how we can strengthen external border protection. It is an issue that concerns the area of migration, but it is essentially also about the security of the European Union. We know that it is a report coming from the Commission that makes devastating criticism of Sweden and our border protection. The report has not yet been published, which is important to point out, but the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs has confirmed that the content may have some bearing on what is coming. In view of that, I wonder a little bit. If Sweden is accused of breaching the Schengen acquis, what about our credibility in the important ongoing discussions on ensuring that the EU has better external border protection in place? This is particularly true of the Mediterranean. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how is the Swedish credibility of the discussions on border protection in the Council?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-142	Mr President, I would like to This was not discussed at the European Council. As Tomas Tobé says, the report is not yet official. However, there are criticisms of Sweden's external border protection, and this needs to be addressed. The authorities have already been tasked with improving external border protection, and now we have to follow it up and see what needs to be done further. I do not, like Tomas Tobé, want to speculate that we have violated the Schengen acquis. We obviously have shortcomings, but we have to wait for the report to see exactly what they look like. What is to be done to maintain our part of the external border protection is to be done. Although Sweden currently has a transitional government, I, as Prime Minister, intend to do what is to be done in order for it to be managed. However, we may also need to have a discussion in Parliament about measures that may need to be taken – if it is outside the mandate of the transitional government.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-145	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I understand that the report is not being discussed, but what I asked about was Sweden's credibility. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister is opening the door because we may need to have a discussion on Swedish border protection. One issue that should nevertheless have been discussed at the Council is the Commission's proposal for a Frontex force. I know it is relatively early, but it is no secret that this is being speeded up by the Commission in order to get this in place. Mr President, I would like to Linked to the question I asked earlier: does the Prime Minister see in the future that we will need Frontex staff on the ground in Sweden in order to be able to cope with our border protection?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-149	Mr President, I would like to Nor was Sweden's credibility discussed at the European Council. As far as a Frontex force is concerned, we are pleased to see what additional opportunities it can offer. However, it must be made clear what the mandate is to be and where the decisions are taken in relation to the Member States. This is exactly what we want investigated. I believe that the main responsibility for the border is the respective country. But we certainly need to work together, and we may need additional tools. We are positive but do not take a stand on whether it should be 10 000. However, we need to look at what mandate such a force should have and how much it should cost and put it in relation to what we are going to do ourselves. With Frontex, too, we have our own task and our homework to do.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-152	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I'm going back to the climate issue. The Paris climate agreement was a historic breakthrough in international climate negotiations. The world's countries then agreed to pursue an ambitious climate policy with a view to limiting the temperature increase to a maximum of two degrees, preferably one and a half degrees. Earlier in October, the IPCC presented its report on what the 1.5-degree target means. Anyone who thinks it doesn't matter if it's one and a half degrees or two degrees should spend some time reading the report, which is crystal clear that there's a big difference. If we can limit warming to one and a half degrees, hundreds of millions of people may suffer from the negative consequences of climate change, such as heat waves, increased poverty and water scarcity. The IPCC is also clear that the ability to meet the 1.5-degree target is about to drain us out of our hands. That is why the climate summit in Poland, COP 24, is extremely central and important to fill the Paris agreement's beautiful framework with content. After all, the United States has withdrawn from its responsibilities and the leadership shown in the climate negotiations in Paris. This void needs to be filled, and I think that Europe should fill it. Mr President, I would like to How does the Prime Minister estimate that the EU will be able to fill this gap? Will the EU be able to act as a bridge builder between developing and developing countries? Will the EU succeed in uniting around a strong position? There are, of course, major differences between ambitious countries such as Sweden, Germany and Denmark and the so-called Visegrad countries, which do not have the same ambitious image.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-157	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Europe can be a driving force and be at the forefront. However, it is no secret that the EU has different levels of ambition. However, the conclusion adopted by the EU has, of course, been discussed between later countries and countries with lower national ambitions, so somewhere there is a consensus. Precisely how this will be expressed in the work in Katowice, I cannot comment on, but my assessment is that there is a consensus. As regards bridge building between developed and developing countries: Sweden as a single nation and the EU, in the discussions on the Paris Agreement, have done exactly this to see how developing countries can develop their economies in a way that does not increase emissions but gradually reduce them. I cannot guarantee anything, but I believe that we have a good chance of being a driving force. Sweden is definitely pushing for the EU to take the lead.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-160	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for the fairly positive answer. I believe that the European Union needs to be a strong voice in Poland during the negotiations and beyond. There really is a need for leadership here, and then we must put the time and effort to unite the European family in order for the European Union to speak with a strong and clear voice in the negotiations. Mr President, I would like to Let me draw a little attention to an issue that we have not yet discussed, namely Italy's budget. As I understand it, this was brought to the attention of both the corridor talk and the Euro Summit attended by Secretary of State Dahlgren in place of the Prime Minister. Italy has the EU's second highest public debt, 130% of GDP, and now it has presented a budget that runs counter to the Stability and Growth Pact. How does the Prime Minister think that the EU should respond to this flagrant example of a policy that jeopardises not only the economic stability of Italy but also of the European Union?
i-bb7a561731329f7e-163	Mr President, I would like to It would be somewhat presumptuous for a Swedish Prime Minister to talk about how the EU should respond to Italy's budget. A discussion is taking place within the Eurogroup, and we hear that there are slightly different views. Yesterday I saw a report of two countries that have been quite similar, Portugal and Italy, where Portugal is heading in a completely different direction from Italy and soon has a balance in the budget. No, with all due respect, I will leave this assessment to the Eurogroup.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-165	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the re-report of the European Council. I noted that the European Council discussed and condemned, among other things, the hostile cyber-attack against the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague. This attack is just one in a series of attacks that have taken place in recent years against a number of countries. Now many countries point people within the Russian intelligence services to be responsible for these attacks. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if there is any work going on to bring about a single and common sanction mechanism linked to these attacks, so that these perpetrators cannot continue with a sense of impunity and without consequences.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-168	Mr President, I would like to The European Union has adopted a regulation, or what I shall call it, which focuses precisely on attacks of this kind and which allows sanctions to be imposed on individuals who have financed, developed or implemented them. I cannot do the details, but it is important that we have this kind of sanctions, not least to get to grips with what happened in The Hague. That's why the entire security area is so important. It is different: we have such attacks, but we also have hybrid attacks and terrorism that must be dealt with, as well as economic crime and organised crime. The whole area of security is incredibly important, and then you have to add the tools needed to tackle it. It is precisely with regard to chemical weapons that there is supposed to be a sanctioning regime.
i-bb7a561731329f7e-170	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is important that Russia and people and states engaged in harmful norm-breaking cyber activity are aware of Sweden's and the EU's continued unwavering determination to prevent, disrupt and deter such behaviour. It is important that Sweden pushes forward on this issue.
