i-32f96968b8da6ef6-0	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new criminal policy that strengthens the police, tightens the penalties and pushes the criminal gangs back. The government has failed. Morgan Johansson will go down in history as the Minister of Justice in modern times who leaves his mission to have achieved fewer police officers while the serious crime has spread over Sweden. Sweden now has the lowest police density in over ten years. In 2017, we had over 300 shootings and more than 7,000 reported rapes. In addition, foreign theft leagues now have a business that accounts for a majority of all burglaries across the country. This development must be reversed, and it requires us to recognise that Sweden has a police crisis. That is why we Moderates have asked for this current debate. Madam President, I would like Nearly 500 new police aspirants yesterday made their first day at work as society's ultimate guarantor of our security. I would like to say to them: Thank you for choosing the police profession, and good luck! Every single one of you will be needed, and you'll need more colleagues, not less. The Moderates' election promise is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000. Like the vast majority, we have also come to the conclusion that a targeted wage investment is needed. My hope is that today's current debate will mean that the government will also wake up and realise that we need to make a targeted effort on Sweden's police officers.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to debate this issue. It is really right at the right time that we are doing this. Let me first state one thing: the number of police officers will not have decreased during this term of office, quite the opposite. By the end of 2014, when we took office, there were 20,051 police officers. At the end of 2018, there will be, according to the assessment of the Political Authority, 20 100. That's where we are. It is really remarkable that it has not decreased during this period. For it could well have been so, given what we inherited. The old government, the bourgeois government, chose to dramatically reduce the number of places in police training during its last period. At one time, training places were reduced by over 90 per cent. They went down from 1,700 places to 140 places. Then one went up a little bit again, to 600 places. Of course, 400 to 500 police officers retire each year was still far too low. Then that level is far too low. You didn't just cut down police training. You also cut down on the Recruiting Authority, that is, the one who does all the tests for those who are going to become police officers. You abolished military service and cut down on the Recruiting Authority. We had to do both: we had to turn up the number of police training places and the number of trainees to be police officers and also make sure to scale up the Recruiting Authority, where you had cut so much. We have done this during our period. We've doubled police training. We are now training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did in their time. We have scaled up the Recruiting Authority so that it can now test everyone who is qualified and who is applying for police training. There has been a great deal to repair in that part since the bourgeois years. We also see the results. Tomas Tobé mentioned just now that 461 newly trained police officers yesterday went on their trainee duty – 461. Six months from now, there'll be another 600 cops in the same way. Next year there will be another 1 300 police officers – it is the biggest hill in almost ten years that will finish the training. 1,300 is good. But we need to keep up the pace of education further. We should be about 2 000 people in order to carry out the expansion that we are looking for – that there will be 10 000 more employees in the Police Authority by 2024. We educate more people, start a new education in Malmö and start another in West Sweden. But that's not enough. We must also ensure that those in the police profession, those who work there now, remain as police officers. That is why we need to improve working conditions, work on career paths and ensure that the Police Authority can be an attractive employer. Of course, it is also about the issue of wages, which many talk about. That is why I am pleased that the Police Association and the Police Authority have now signed an agreement that is the best in the labour market. It provides better wage developments than for all other professions, I would say. And it gives special money to those who work in external service and to those who work in vulnerable areas. In addition, it is strong, that is to say, this increase in wages is already coming in the spring. The average salary for a Swedish police officer today is SEK 34 195. The increase that is now coming – we are talking about over 5 percent – means that you can expect a salary increase of over SEK 1,800 already in the spring. It is individual wage setting, as you all know. Some will get more; others will get less. But that's where we end up this spring. You do not have to wait several years for this, but it actually comes from the agreements that are now signed. I may hardly have to say that wage developments are better in these years than they were in the bourgeois years. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. We are now making the biggest investment in the police force in 20 years. This allows the police authorities to plan for a massive expansion. At the end of this year, we'll have 20,100 police officers. By 2020, we will land at 21 500, according to the assessment of the Politiska ombudsman. In 2022, it will be 23 800. And in 2024, 26 200 are expected. That's the police's development plan. There is really only one thing that threatens this, Madam President, and it is the huge tax cuts that you are planning in the opposition if you are allowed to come to power. I think you are planning about 100 billion in tax cuts. To expand the police in this way costs a little over SEK 12 billion. That's a lot of money. It's a push of almost 50% on the police bill. Is it much or little? Yes, your main election promise is that you want to introduce a sixth job tax deduction. It costs SEK 22 billion. So you want to spend twice as much on this as it costs to scale up the police. This will be an interesting debate, I think. It will be interesting to hear the bourgeois representatives explain. If you are to have any credibility in this debate, please put aside and remove your gigantic tax cuts. I know one thing: not a single police officer can be financed by such tax cuts.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-20	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a police crisis, and we have a Minister of Justice who cannot even take that word into his mouth. However you twist and reverse this, we now have the lowest police density in over ten years. I think it is precisely this lack of understanding of the crisis that is the biggest problem facing the government. The alliance increased the number of police officers from 17 500 to the then 20 000 target. On average, 800 police officers were trained per year. Misunderstanding: It is right that we now need more police officers, and it is good that there are proper training places. But however one twists and turns this and however much the Minister of Justice tries to blame others for their responsibilities, it is time to start drawing conclusions about the current situation. We have obvious problems when experienced police officers leave the profession. The number of police departures last year was 905, of which half was for reasons other than retirement. So far this year we are up to 214 police departures, at the same time as we are unable to fill the training places with enough future police officers. It is the reality that the government needs to wake up and see. I mean, we're facing a path. Either we lower the demands on the police profession, or we choose to make the profession more attractive. For me, this path is given. We need to raise wages to make the profession more attractive and, furthermore, to stand up for our police officers much better. Once we prosecute serious criminals, we should have a criminal law that does not give a generous discount just because we have committed many crimes. We should be clear that attacks on police officers should never be accepted, but met with a proper prison sentence. We need to make sure that the Police Authority is properly funded. Since the government took office, taxes have risen by 60 billion. But of all the expenditure increases, the police have seen very little. In fact, only 3% of expenditure increases have gone to the judiciary – 3%! It might have been possible to justify whether security in Sweden had increased at the same time. On the contrary, we have seen the number of criminal gangs, sex crimes and foreign theft gangs growing. We have new problems that need to be met with proper efforts in the police and the judiciary. Unfortunately, this pattern of underfunding by the police now seems to come again. According to the police's new estimates, the entire amount of SEK 2.5 billion is already missing in 2021. The question is how serious the government really is with its police case if you are not even prepared to finance it in your budget statements. The Moderates are clear: we are laying down a budget that is fully funded. We choose to give priority to the police and the judiciary. We need to make sure that we get up to another 10 000 police officers. We will also have to make a targeted effort to raise police salaries. If we have a situation of major police departures combined with the fact that we do not even fill the training places, we must be prepared to take new initiatives. It is clear that current policies will not solve this. I have noted that the government points out that it is fundamentally wrong to make a salary investment on the Swedish police. Let me then explain to the government how this will be done if we get the support of the Swedish people: it will mean giving extra money to the Police Authority, which will be used to raise police salaries, on top of what is normally negotiated. This will of course be part of the negotiation between the parties, and the exact increase for the respective police will of course vary. But there will be no doubt about the direction. In concrete terms, this means that we understand that we are a party, that is, the state and the opportunities that we are giving to the Police Authority. Sometimes it surprises me that the government seems completely unfamiliar with this, much as if there was something very funny in Swedish politics. But the fact is that for several years you yourselves have decided on targeted pay for the teachers, and there the state is not even the principal. This is something that doesn't make sense. It's time to realize we're having a real police crisis. It would be an important message to the country's police if the government parties could now agree to a targeted wage increase. This is not something that is needed for our political parties, but it is needed for Sweden's police officers and for Sweden's security. Now take the chance, Morgan Johansson, and say yes to a targeted pay bet!
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-31	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have initiated this debate on the staffing situation in the Swedish police, and this is of course an urgent issue. For every year that has passed this term of office, we have received fewer trained police officers on duty, while at the same time we have seen how the demands on the police's mission have increased. Of course, these developments are worrying for a number of reasons, but they do not come as a surprise. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that has had a sober view on the issue of social development and the need for more police officers. According to all parties except the Swedish Democrats, strong immigration was only a few years ago to be regarded as a major social gain. Sweden then also received a very large amount of immigration. However, the profit failed and turned in a short time into a risk of social collapse, and all of a sudden most parties understood that we needed border controls to regulate migration. This came to make more demands on the police than the rest of you had anticipated. More than ten years ago, the Swedish Democrats pointed out that uncontrolled migration, especially from the Middle East, was a risk of increasing Islamisation in our country. Not many parties at that time agreed with that analysis of the future. For a number of years now, the Swedish Security Service has confirmed that it was exactly as the Swedish Democrats warned against. In a short time, violent Islamism has become the greatest and fastest growing threat of terror in our country. Today we have over 2 000 radical Islamists in Sweden and hundreds of fighters for the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. This development has come to impose higher demands on the police than the rest of you had anticipated. Immigration is also a major contributor to the increasing segregation of exclusion areas. It is not by chance that the areas marked by the police as particularly vulnerable are precisely migratory areas. These are areas where more than double staffing is required for a normal intervention compared to other places in the country. Developments in these areas have come to impose higher demands on the police than the rest of you had anticipated. In conclusion, there has been no profit from your naive and liberal immigration policy. If you had done the same analysis as the Swedish Democrats did at the beginning of the parliamentary term, we might not have been the only one to see the need to train more police officers early. Madam President, I would like A short political reaction has a price. Understanding problems only when they arise is too late and leads to unnecessary suffering. The fact is that if the Moderates, who initiated this debate, had had to decide for themselves throughout this term of office, we would have had exactly the same number of police officers as we have today. The same applies to the other alliance parties. At the beginning of your term of office, you agreed with the government that we did not need to train any more police officers. We can see that in society today. The under-financing of the Police Authority has been met with clear reactions, not least from those police employees who have rightly voiced their criticisms, for example, in the campaign Now it is enough in 2015–2016. The only people who have been really happy that the Red-Green Government has been able to starve the Police Authority during this term of office are probably the criminals. However, they should also give a great deal of thanks to the alliance parties, not least for the d ecember agreement, which in practice is still in force. Madam President, I would like The police staffing issue is not something we need to figure out a new solution to. It has been presented by the Swedish Democrats in every budget debate during their term of office. For those parties that still do not understand, I can take it one more time. There is a need for more trained police officers, and the pace of training needs to continue to relate to other demographic developments. In order to prevent drop-outs, attract more police officers back into the profession and attract more people to join the education, responsibility must be taken for the salary. In our budget we have set aside targeted money to go to increased salaries for the police. We want to encourage more police officers to remain in external service for longer. Our investment corresponds on average to SEK 6 000 more in the pay envelope per month for a police officer. Furthermore, police officers in their mission must feel a back-up from managers and from politics when they do their job. The work of police officers should also lead to a difference to a greater extent. In this context, policies must be more responsive to situations where police officers arrest the same people time and again without the other parts of the legal chain being able to capture them and make a greater difference. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not enough just to talk about the necessary pieces of the police crisis, but also to put action behind words. There the Alliance, which nevertheless proposes more money than the government, has failed in its responsibilities. The fragrant opposition voices that are emerging here in the Alliance still do so on the basis of an awareness that none of what they say will become a reality. The alliance was initially part of what was called the d ecember agreement, which meant that you did not vote for your own policy because it could become a reality if the Swedish Democrats chose to support it. As criticism grew, the agreement was scrapped, but then you chose to submit separate draft budgets as a guarantee that none of them would convict the Red-Green Government. Anyone who really wants to make a difference to the Swedish police must stop playing political air guitar in opposition and really start working with the parties that put the Swedish police first. The party that excludes such cooperation with any individual party has made a departure from putting the Swedish police first. These parties risk that all the well-deserved criticism of the government that emerges in this debate will remain a vote in opposition. Let me be clear. A vote for the Swedish Democrats is a guarantee that not all political bickering must stand in the way of important investments in the Swedish police.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-52	Madam President, I would like I want to start with something completely different. I would like to start by thanking you because this is my last day as a Member of Parliament after 12 years. This debate is also my last parliamentary debate. This is an important debate. It is about one of the pillars of our society, about the police who uphold the law, order and, above all, confidence in our society in the country. The debate concerns rural areas, big cities, vulnerable areas and sparsely populated areas. The police are everywhere, and the police are to be greatly commended for that. Now there is a police organization that has undergone a major reorganisation in recent years. It is a reorganisation that has actually been supported by the whole Parliament. It's exciting and challenging. I think we are beginning to see the police coming out of the tunnel after the reorganisation has been difficult and strenuous. It's becoming a modern police organization. It's good to talk about wages. There's a need for higher police salaries. That's my opinion, too. I don't think anyone here has said anything else. But there is also a need for a new, modern police organization that is consistent with our modern society. It's about higher education. It's about college-trained police. It is important that we dare to stand up for modern society. Much of what we are discussing is about the convulsions that the police are going through. A lot of cops are starting to think that maybe they should do something else. Well, then maybe that cop should do something else, but then maybe someone else should become a cop. We need more police officers in Sweden. We all agree on that. But now a new organization is emerging. Through the years that I have been able to follow how the police have worked with the reorganisation, I have been impressed by how they have become more and more modern, how they have found their way into society. They have tackled organised crime, and they have been forced to back down under harsh circumstances and then fight their way back. We can now see that the number of shootings is decreasing in the country. It is important that we see this. No one is valet, least of all the police, because we're blacking out and saying it's all going to hell. No cop is better off hearing that your job is crap and a failure and that the whole country is going to hell. We must also support this positive development. We are now seeing a modern society emerging with a modern police force, which receives all the support we can give them. In general, we agree on this. Competing for how many extra crowns a police officer will get, that the Riksdag will decide whether it should be 4 000, 3 000 or 5 000 SEK more a month is – excuse – not serious. The important thing is to ensure that they get the resources they need so that they can conduct a proper wage negotiation so that the police can get more money. In fact, this year's wage negotiations have led to salary increases for the police – in concrete terms. But it is also important that those who apply for education perceive that they have a meaningful job to go to. Whatever the view, this government has made a historically unique effort. It's the biggest investment in 20 years, we just heard, the police. Then we will certainly need major investments in the future. It is not the case that a single year, or perhaps three years, is crucial, but the future government will continue its efforts. That must be quite clear. The Green Party is behind, and will continue to support, investing in the police. It is a question of fundamental democratic society and of trust in society. It's about being able to feel safe wherever you are in Sweden. It has to be clear. It doesn't help to say that everything is falling apart. It does not help to point out repeatedly how bad things are. It is about showing that there are improvements. There is broad agreement that the situation will improve, but it must not be a question of fake money in the form of x kroner in wage increases. Rather, it's about the whole community running for the police.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-63	Madam President, I would like It is snow mixed rain and dark this Friday night, and they have just gone to bed. She still notes that the lights on the outhouses are on. They are controlled by a relay that sets off the light when someone comes near. She wakes up her husband, and they look out. At first they see nothing, but they go down to the kitchen window and note a car that they do not recognize a bit down the driveway. Just a few years ago, the guess would have been either that someone had strayed wrong among the small roads this far from the urban area, or that someone needed help. After the recent too frequent reports of theft, burglary and thieving, the scourge is rather that it is someone who is not there for good purposes. They dare not go out, but they light the exterior lights from the dwelling house so that the thieves – if that is the case – should know that they are discovered. But they don't seem to care. The pensioner couple who live there feel an extra time that the front door is locked. Locking the door is something they've only started with in recent years. The doors would always be unlocked, and if they went on a slightly shorter errand, they would lock the door but leave the key in. Someone could use to come in and borrow something. They'll call 911 and talk to the police, but the police won't be able to come. Since it's Friday night, you obviously have to have a patrol on standby outside the nearest central town's only dance restaurant in case there's a fight there. No one comes to the rescue of the older couple. No one comes to their aid. They don't want to call their son and wake him up. It wouldn't have mattered anyway, because he lives 120 miles away. After a moment that feels like an eternity, it seems like the alien car is leaving. They still don't want to go out and look. It's dark and cold, and none of them can sleep. They make coffee and make sandwiches, but none of them are particularly hungry. The feeling of discomfort is overwhelming. The feeling of powerlessness is tiring, as is grief. Their place on earth, the place that has been their home and the earth that has been theirs, the place where their children have vu x in t up, the place that has been known as the safest on earth, is now something quite different. They get an hour's sleep in the early hours. When it lightens up, they go and look and can say that it has indeed been burglary. They call the police again, this time 114 14, and have to wait almost an hour to talk to someone. It was an hour that felt meaningless because the police still did nothing to try to investigate the crime. The whole thing was shut down – in the absence of reconnaissance plans, it was said. And I guess that's not surprising, because it wasn't exactly looking for a search idea. This story is based on a real event. Their son, the one who lived 70 miles [120 km] away, e-mailed me and told me this story. I am sure that all of us taking part in this debate have heard many similar stories, perhaps even this – stories about people, ordinary people, who are not only victims of crime but also feel unseen and ignored by the rule of law. In many places, you do what you can. You put in better locks, and you set up alarms and cameras. You join forces in various forms of collaboration and warn each other when you see a car that seems suspicious. You have mobile photos, descriptions and registration numbers, and all this you want to pass on to the police. But it is felt in far too many cases that it is of no use, that the police still do nothing of it. No society – not even the toughest police state – can prevent such things from happening, people taking the right to violate the rules that we have jointly set up to live in peace and freedom. But any society that wants to secure security must be able to act when the violations of these rules take place. Victims of crime must be seen by the rule of law. Crime should be investigated and crime prevented as far as possible. It is not reality today, and it has not been reality for years. This email I received early 2015. Then a work from our side in the Center Party had already begun to delve into this very dark phenomenon: travelling theft leagues in the countryside. It was a work that led to some sharp policy proposals, which we have since gained a majority for here in Parliament and which the government is expected to deliver on. Perhaps it will be until after the turn of the government this autumn, but there are things to do by legislative means. Madam President, I would like When we look at the long-term trend in security development in Sweden, we see that it is not night black. For the last 20 years, a lot has gone in the right direction. But there is reason to take a closer look at this development, for there are categories of crime that are heading against the current and increasing. These include sexual crimes but also fraud and gang violence. Fraud is increasing avalanche and is using huge amounts of resources from the judiciary. When I started looking at this, the number of reported crimes was 185,000. It was 2015. I met the police to talk about this, and then they told me that on paper at the time there were 26 police officers who were going to work on this but that in practice they were only nine. In 2016, the number of reported fraud offences increased to 194 000. During the term of office, gang violence has also escalated to a totally unreasonable level. The criminal gangs have been allowed to move forward positions, and the consequences are nothing less than catastrophic with almost daily reports of shootings, some of them with fatal outcome – quite a few, unfortunately. When I talk to policemen who work with this very thing, to counter and fight the most dangerous gang criminals, the message is clear. In connection with the arrival of the new organization, the police released pressure on the gangs, and in that gap of freer leeway they had time to organize themselves, arm themselves and build their violent capital so strongly that we now have the situation we find ourselves in. The probability is that since then we are building up a debt that will be exchanged in the statistics in the future. There are many further examples that all boil down to the same conclusion: One basic problem is that we have too few available workers and security-making policemen out in the local community. It must be resolved, and the question is not whether but how.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-79	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a police officer who can be trusted, who has local knowledge of the area in which it works, who can distinguish a hate crime from an assault, who knows school children and gangsters and who knows that the main work tool is the mouth and not the baton. We want a safe exercise of authority that can withstand the pressure when the public and politicians say things that may not always go hand in hand with the Authority's own priorities. We want an authority that's daring and tough. The Left Party wants a police organization with many colleagues and strong labour law where it works civilians, dog drivers and analysts. We want a police officer who is an expert on men's violence against women and is really cruel at communicating with victims' helpers, who hold children's hearings, who work crime prevention and long-term and who dare to let certain things take time. We want a police officer who feels pride. The Left Party wants more local cops. We want a blue-light patrol to protect police and ambulance personnel against stoning. We want enhanced work against hate crimes. We want more special police officers in cyber-hat crimes and occupational health and safety crimes. That is why, together with the government, we have made record investments in the police. In our latest proposal, the police were awarded 200 million. In total, SEK 9.8 billion has been proposed and announced to the Police Authority. The objective of the budget is to increase the number of police officers by another 10 000 to 2024. There are major challenges for the police. Too many people in large parts of Sweden have too far to the nearest police patrol. You only have to get outside the biggest cities to see that it is starting to be sparse considerably. We can't have that. Security is created by ensuring that everyone has equal access to society's resources. This also applies to access to the police. It is also difficult to get those who pass police training to apply for police training – 50% of those who apply are not eligible, and one third do not report to the appeal. Then it is clear that it is also difficult to get enough police officers. We need to get more people who are both suitable and pass the tests to go to police training. Despite this, the number admitted to police training has doubled. In 2019 it will expire 1 300 from police training. However, lowering the requirements for access to education is not an option. On the other hand, more entrances may be needed to gain access to education. Not everyone who is trained needs to become patrol officers, but is able to train themselves to be competent IT investigators or children's interviewers. Police work is very broad. Then the way to education must also be attacked. The working conditions of the police have become an increasingly topical issue. The police work in a diverse and complex working environment that is both physically and mentally stressful. It is therefore important that both technical and other physical aids and work tools work and are adapted to police activities. For example, reporting an event report often takes an unnecessary amount of time. There is much to do here. There's also a lot of cops who quit. It's never good if it's done because of dissatisfaction. But I think we also need to change our attitude towards the police, because policemen also have to change jobs. It happens in all other authorities, and it can also be done in the police. The agency also has a mission to re-recruit police officers who have resigned, and it has proved to be working well. The big question is, how do we solve the situation of the police? It does not matter how upset we are in this House; we have to solve the problem. It is about the allocation of financial resources, and we have fixed that in the budget. But it is also a question of raising our eyes and seeing that the whole of welfare is facing a major challenge in which right-wing politicians want to reduce public and lower taxes. What goes to all of us, that's what they want to pull away. That is why we must have solidarity in our welfare. Otherwise, the number of police officers will never be able to increase.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-90	Madam President, I would like Liberals are very concerned that insecurity is increasing in our society. The resolution of crime is very worrying, and we see a growing frustration in police officers who feel that they do not have the support they need from politics. They do not have the conditions necessary for them to carry out their duties. Last Friday I visited Ronneby in Blekinge – a place that has been hard hit over the past few years by crime and criminals and by the lack of police presence. It's the criminals who've taken over. It is the criminals who can go out and blackmail shopkeepers, attack shops and engage in drug and other serious crime. It is no wonder that the inhabitants of this place are experiencing insecurity. Ronneby's not alone. A few weeks earlier I was in Västervik, where an equally frustrated police chief told me how he has lost his mandate as local police chief. Suddenly, there is someone up there at the Regional Management Centre who is going to control the operational decisions and how he is going to use his radio cars. That is why we have repeatedly told the government that we are prepared to tear up parts of the reorganisation. We have pointed out the problems with the red tape of the Poli Authority. But we are met with total disinterest from the current minister. I have been to Sala, Västmanland – my constituency. Tommy, who is a good inspector, then told me that you go on minimum staffing all the time. There are fewer in external service, and there has been a diet with the police in Sala all the time since 2015. And I can go on, Madam President. Today I read in Eskilstuna-Kuriren that there is a police shortage. If you don't make it through the summer, you don't have any district police. They are the ones who should be out working crime prevention and visible, closer to the citizens. The list can be made long. When I listen to the government and the Attorney General, I wonder if we live in the same country. Do we meet the same police authorities, and do we meet the same police chiefs? But there may be a reason and an explanation why Sweden has ended up in this situation when it comes to security. As late as June 22, 2017 in Svenska Dagbladet, the then Minister for Home Affairs n Anders Ygeman says: It is not on the map that a police authority that does not deliver should have another 2 billion. We did not share this view from the Liberals then, and neither do we today. That is why we insist, Madam President, that this is the most important explanation: the government has been saving the Swedish police for three years. It has nothing to do with the fact that we trained too few. It has nothing to do with too few wanting to be cops. This is one of Sweden's most attractive educations. We don't have to lower the standards. We say no to Morgan Johansson's reduced demands to become a police officer. The physical requirements have been reduced, the theoretical requirements have been reduced and the requirements of the talent test have been reduced. The 70 kg doll to be moved that used to be used in education has been removed. We cannot have a debate that tries to ridicule the opposition or to claim that we are making mistakes. This is what we've come up with from the Recruiting Authority and teach the unseats. We had 500 empty seats in police training last year. No one I've met in the seven eight years I've been working on these questions has said that the solution is two new police colleges. It's not about new police colleges. We are busy making sure to match the right students to the hundreds of empty places that already exist today. This semester, 259 seats are empty in police training. One month into the training in Växjö, in February, 21 students dropped out – after a month! That's what we're going to find out. Why don't you want to be a police student? And once you're accepted, why don't you show up? Or once you start – why do you stop after a month when it has been so hard to get into the places? The government does not even comment on this. The only thing I've been told for three years is that we trained too few and it's our fault that defection is so great. That's not true. We had more police officers during our government, and we had more police officers in external service. There are fewer police officers on the outside now. How are we going to get more visible police officers, and how are we going to get more district police if we don't make the profession attractive? In conclusion, Madam President, I can say that, in connection with our amending budget today, I read that Helene Hellmark Knutsson visited the Landstinget Sörmland and promised EUR 17 million to keep health workers in the county council. A few years earlier, 3 billion were invested in raising teachers' salaries. We say: Put EUR 1.3 billion already in this year's budget to raise police salaries by the equivalent of SEK 4,000 a month! Unlike county council employees and unlike teachers, police are actually government employees.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-102	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Moderates, who have initiated this debate, which concerns the lack of police density in Sweden. This is certainly a matter of urgency, because we have the lowest police density in ten years. Sweden is far behind our European neighbours, and every year we see the consequences increasingly clearly. Best described, I think it will be when you ask people if they are victims of crime. This is precisely what is being done in the National Security Survey. What is the development since the Red Green Government took power in 2014? The threats have increased by 37 per cent, harassment by 37 1⁄2 per cent, fraud by 39 per cent, assault by 28 per cent, personal robbery by 100 per cent and sexual offences by 140 per cent, according to the Safety Survey. In parallel with this increase, something else is also increasing: the number of police officers who put the uniform on the shelf and who end for reasons other than retirement. Last year, a majority of all police officers ended precisely for reasons other than retirement. We've got a record number of young cops leaving. Swedish police have a very strained situation. We're having a police crisis. It takes a lot of effort for a long time to provide the police with the right resources. The Christian Democrats propose that there should be 10,000 more police officers by 2025. Half of these should be trained as usual and half with a slightly shorter education. A new form of police employment is introduced for the latter group. The proposal aims to increase the efficiency of the police and strengthen security throughout the country. There is a need for more police officers, but it is not enough to solve the problems of the Swedish police. The big challenge is to get those who work today as police officers to stay and to lure back those who have chosen to quit. Many police officers experience great frustration and inadequacy in an increasingly tough working environment, and measures are needed to improve the work situation and increase the attractiveness of the profession so that no more police officers choose to quit. We Christian Democrats are proposing a special wage investment. The funds we allocate would be sufficient for a salary increase of between SEK 4 000 and SEK 5 000 per month for police officers in external service and for investigators who have fallen behind. There is also room for height ob-replacement. Mats Pertoft, who is making his last debate in the Riksdag, said that it is not serious to talk about what levels different targeted initiatives could lead to. The parties of the Alliance agree that we need a targeted budget effort to raise police salaries when we look at developments and when we have the lowest police density in ten years. I think that is serious when so many police officers tell us that the main reason why they stop is dissatisfaction with the work situation, with the management and, above all, with wages. The reduction in the number of police officers has more consequences. Today, the municipalities are spending more and more money on guarding. Watchers will have to patrol ever larger areas. The municipalities now spend SEK 1.6 billion on guarding services. For example, in Västra Götaland County and Örebro County, costs have doubled since 2014. These are dramatic figures. This is based, I think, on the fact that the government has not invested enough in the police at the right time. Instead, the municipalities now have to go in and cover up by employing security guards and security guards, who are able to replace police officers in many ways. It is, of course, a good thing that the municipalities are acting, but guardians should not do police work. The billions that municipalities are demonstrably willing to spend on security should be able to contribute to funding police services. It's urgent. If we are to reverse developments in the alienation areas and overcome the problems of riots and the insecurity that is spreading in the city and country, we need police officers who are in place quickly. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed that municipalities be able to partfinance police services. These police officers receive a shorter training and are linked to local police areas. In parallel, we want to increase the mandate of local police officers. It is about getting policemen into streets and squares so that they are present in their local areas in the long term. We know what it looks like today. District police are being moved from smaller municipalities to larger ones. When a successful operation has been carried out, such as in Södertälje a number of years ago or in Bishopsgården in the near future, the police need to leave the area quite quickly when it has calmed down because the need is more urgent elsewhere. It creates a vacuum where new crime can occur. We need a sustainable cop who works long-term. That is why we also want to strengthen the Swedish police. We believe that all crime, including so-called everyday crime, must be combated. Today, the clearance rate is alarming and outrageously low – only 13% for all crimes. For theft and robbery, the clearance rate is 6 percent. For burglaries it is 3 percent, for boat theft 1 percent and for bike theft 0 percent. 0 percent of the bike theft is cleared up! There is a significant risk that many people today perceive that police reports in cases such as housing offences and similar crime are being made only for the sake of insurance companies, in order to be able to obtain compensation. This is very unfortunate, as it leads to the risk that the public will lose their disillusionment to the police and the judiciary. There is a need for a new government that from day one prioritises these issues – a government that addresses the fight against crime and counters the insecurity of the city and country. When we look back at this parliamentary term, we see a government that woke up too late at the same time as insecurity increased.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-117	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the facts about the number of police officers. By the time we leave 2018, the number of police officers will not have decreased, but rather will have increased in relation to the situation when we join d e, even though you cut down so much on police training. This is the result of the fact that we have now switched up in terms of education. You gave priority to other things during your eight years of government. For eight years, you reduced the tax by SEK 140 billion. How much did you raise the police's budget? 5 billion. This clearly shows your priority. When the Moderates and alliance parties choose between reduced tax on the one hand and law enforcement on the other hand, they always choose reduced tax. That's what your priorities look like. If you are to have any credibility in this debate, you must delete your great tax-merger proposals, the proposals on which you are going to the elections. We are talking about amounts in the 100-billion-dollar class. There is no way to finance more police officers with tax cuts. It's not working. What will otherwise happen is that you are again running public finances at the bottom. You always do that when you rule, without exception. When you have run public finances into the ground, I promise you that all the promises you are now making are not even worth the paper on which they are written. You'll never be able to deliver. Then we are back in the twitching that prevailed during the last parliamentary term. Then you could cut police training by 90% because the money was over, quite simply. We must have a long-term perspective as we expand the police. Then you have to have stable public finances in the bottom, and then you actually have to make sure that you put away the big tax bench proposals, because it doesn't work otherwise. Now the number of policemen is increasing thanks to the efforts we make. The police, as we have been on, are also getting a substantial raise. The average salary today is SEK 34,195. We are talking about a raise of just over SEK 1,800 on average already this spring. Then there will be additional salary audits in the coming years, of course. There's gonna be a raise. Then, of course, we spend a great deal of money: EUR 2 billion this year and further dilution in addition. The organization is now in place. We have carried out a reorganisation. Now Roger Haddad raises the issue of the organization again and says that he wants to tear up parts of the reorganisation. Then I must ask the alliance parties: Is this really your opinion? I think it's hard to get along the backbone of the country's thousands of police officers when they hear this. They feel that they have now gone through the whole reorganisation and that it has now sat down. The fact that you are then faced with a situation where everything will be torn up again, I think, will provoke strong reactions in the police force. I don't think they'll do that at all. I have to ask the question: will you help to tear up the organisation again? In fact, we need to know this in this debate. Roger Haddad criticised the training places that we have now established in Malmö and West Sweden. Is it the Alliance's view that the new training courses are not needed? You may not intend to carry out these training courses because you do not think they are so important. My starting point is that, in order to increase the number of police officers, we must also broaden recruitment. By creating more training places, in Malmö and in West Sweden, we will also get more applicants. Then, of course, we will work with the attractiveness of the profession in general, as well as with salary issues and everything else, but broadening recruitment is an important step in order for us to actually manage staff supply in the future. Don't mess with this! I want to hear about this from the Alliance: Are you going to tear up the reorganisation? Are you in favour of further police training, as we would like?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-129	Madam President, I would like We have a location in Sweden where we have 200 criminal gangs and 5,000 lifestyle criteria. The exposure to sexual offences has doubled in just two years. A majority of burglaries are now committed by foreign theft leagues. This situation is now combined with record few police officers. So it is no strange equation that crime is now spreading and insecurity is increasing. I am actually glad that I have some experience from the Education Committee, because it feels like we need to go through some mathematics and obvious connections in this debate. It is sometimes pointed out that if, as we have proposed, the tax was to be reduced so that a police officer could keep 500 SEK more a month, it is the same as not being able to invest in Swedish police. During the year of the Alliance, we introduced job tax deductions so that ordinary people could keep more of their wages. Revenues also increased. This is sometimes the case when you can get more people to work. I know that this government has a different economic policy. That is why you have spent 30% of the expenditure increases this parliamentary term on subsidies and subsidies and 3% on the judiciary. It is a political choice that you have made. However you twist and reverse the statistics, it is almost a bit distressing to hear the Minister of Justice put his hope in that maybe, if we are lucky, we can get up in the number of police officers we had in 2014. With all due respect, the population is increasing. We now have the lowest police density in ten years. It is time to start taking some responsibility for the situation. We must also note that current policies will not be enough to reverse this situation. The Moderates have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to count on the government's police case. If we look at the pace we have at the moment – the planned one, with the problems we have in filling training places – and combine it with the police drop-out and the under-funding that exists, the police target can be reached at best in 2032. Sweden cannot afford to wait so long for new policemen, but we must ensure that new initiatives are taken to get this in place. Let me say that I think there is a good part of government policy. I think it is good that we can agree on more training places. That is a good thing, but we must be honest with ourselves: neither the Alliance nor the current government will reach out to more police workers if we are not prepared to take new initiatives. That is the reason why we are landing in the conclusion that a targeted wage investment is needed. If you're going to stop the police dropout and get a record number of people to go to work, you also have to draw conclusions. It is time now to listen to the police who leave the profession. It is time to listen to the young people who are currently thinking about whether or not to go to the police profession. It is time for Morgan Johansson to take responsibility for the fact that we have Sweden's lowest police density in over ten years and that it is no longer good enough to say no to increased police salaries.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-138	Madam President, I would like I would like to make a brief comment on what Tomas Tobé was saying about the smug tone of Morgan Johansson and the government that, at the end of this term of office, we might have as many police officers as we had at the entrance, or a handful more. We were early out by relating the number of police officers to the number of inhabitants of the country. We think that this is a reasonable approach, and that is why we proposed to train 7 000 more police officers in autumn 2015 and also to have a continued pace of education related to the number of people in the population. We think it is absolutely necessary. That is why we have proposed that there should be 250 police officers per 100 000 inhabitants, so I do not think it is very impressive that Morgan Johansson takes up where Anders Ygeman left off when he was allowed to leave his ministry. Anders Ygeman was also false in his image of the government's commitment to the police when he pointed out that we had never had as many police employees as we had on that occasion; that debate was held one or two years ago. It's not the same as having more police trained officers in the country. However, it was a way for the government to deal with the decline in the number of trained police officers: it was tried to make it appear that there were still more police officers out there because there were more police employees. However, more civil servants had been compensated. That's not very impressive. As I was in my first speech, all the parties in opposition seem to agree quite a lot. It's more money for the Police Authority than the government is spending, more trained police officers, targeted wage initiatives, and so on. It is also so wonderful that in opposition we are actually a majority in parliament. This means that if we have a common understanding and a common proposal that is different from that of the government, the proposal can become a reality. However, there are alliance parties that are not prepared to make all fine talk happen, and that is the Liberals and the Center Party in particular. These parties do not put the situation of the police first. Instead, they slow down the possibility of making a difference for the Swedish police, for the simple reason that they do not like the election result. If the Alliance presents a common budget that is better for the Swedish police than the government's budget, there is a good chance that it will receive majority support through support from the Swedish Democrats. However, some assessors have said that budget support from the Swedish Democrats will not last without any counter-claims, and it is this situation that causes the Liberals and the Center Party to ruin every opportunity to make improvements for the Swedish police. But you know what? This is how democracy in Sweden is supposed to work. Every normal person in society can accept that everything in everyday life is not exactly what you have imagined, but it refuses the Liberals and the Center Party to do so. Unless the voters vote exactly as these parties want, they will do nothing to put action behind their words. It is unresponsive, irresponsible and, not least, contemptuous to the voters, who expect those elected to the Swedish Parliament to respect a democratic verdict and take responsibility for the country and their own policies. As has already been said, the question is not what needs to be done to tackle police staffing; we have already presented and discussed those proposals. The question for this debate and the upcoming electoral movement is whether the Center Party and the Liberals are mature enough to take real responsibility for the police crisis in our country. Apparently they have not been during this term of office, and as long as the Center Party and the Liberals keep the intentions of the December Agreement alive, no one can honestly take their criticism of the government seriously, Madam President.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-145	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by addressing the police once again. Perhaps some police workers or police are listening to the debate, and I would like to pay tribute to them for the work they do. We know that we have a shortage of police officers in Sweden, and we know that there are many police officers out there who spend time – overtime, extra time – filling out the gaps and ensuring that citizens are safe. They're working their asses off to maintain order. A tribute to them! It would not have hurt if the alliance parties had already invested a little more in the police in their last years before the 2014 elections, because then it would have been easier for us to take over. Let's do it, and let's move on. It is important that we continue this work, because it is true that the government has given the Police Authority clear mandates in terms of developing career opportunities and reviewing salaries. We see some of the results, but we are far from satisfied. The fact that the police need to be better placed seems to us to be very much in agreement. When I listen to the opposition about how many thousand crowns it should be in pay or not, however, it starts to turn. Should the modernisation of the police continue? Like the Attorney General, I'm very worried when I listen to Roger Haddad. What was it like – would the Police Authority get 2 billion less if they do not meet Roger Haddad's requirements? At least I heard something like that. Or would the reorganisation suddenly be torn up? It's a reorganization that has modernized the police. It's been really tough, and we've been through it, and I think it's creating the conditions for a future police officer in Sweden. It is very important that we continue to stand united behind this reorganisation and rather file on the details and find better solutions. However, it is not we in Parliament who do so, but it is the internal organisation of the Political Authority that is working on this. The police must feel that the policy is behind their development – also in order for more people to go to the Police Authority. Tomas Tobé mentioned the similarity with the question of teachers. I have also worked a lot on school issues, and I can see worrying similarities with the issue of teacher education. There were no more applicants for teacher education when Jan Björklund, then Minister of Education, stood in the speaker's chair year after year and talked about how bad the teacher education was. No more people went to teacher training when they did not experience the confidence of the political leadership. This is about building a common trust so that we can have more police in the country. We need that.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-151	Madam President, I would like We seem to be touchingly agreed on the importance of security. All parties here present various proposals that are that you want more police officers and also indicate how many more you want, and that is in itself a good thing. The problem is perhaps the credibility of some places. Some people have always believed that there is a police crisis – all whatever the security situation, they always want more policemen, more surveillance, less legal certainty and tougher batons. Instead, others have chosen to play down the problem and turn a blind eye to stories such as the one I mentioned in my opening speech, and then to cross-reference and come along with one, than the other, more or less thought-out proposal to put soldiers in the suburbs and other peculiarities. That is not good enough, Madam President! Responsible and wise justice policy is a policy of law that holds together – a policy of law that sees the urgent need for security reinforcements and proposes measures for this, while at the same time seeing the long-term perspective and building society so strongly that we are able to help young people who feel bad, so that they do not have time to develop into adults who commit crimes, so that they manage school and feel part of society and so that they can participate on equal terms, create their lives and make their dreams come true. This is not just a legal policy but a generally good policy. It ensures that people find their place in life and in the labour market, so that they do not end up in the alienation that we know is a breeding ground for many negative things, including crime. It is a policy of justice that requires responsibility and leadership. It focuses on implementing concrete and sensible reforms in the field of justice. It is clear in its control of the police and other law enforcement authorities and ensures that the authorities are led by managers who put the agency's activities first – not their own government's opinion figures. Everyone can make mistakes; even wise and competent people sometimes make wrong decisions. It is how to deal with the emerging situation that defines good leadership. The current government works differently. With dazzling rhetoric, one makes the exodus of responsibility an art. If it is not the fault of the previous government, it is immigration, reorganization or the state of things that it depends on. Despite the fact that the police density is falling, insecurity is escalating, investigations are being piled up, gang violence has exploded, and police officers cannot go on alarms in sparsely populated areas, there is not a single trace of humility in the government. The fact is, however, that the government made a terrible mistake with the police at the beginning of this term of office. The story I mentioned in my last speech was far from unique. A wide range of similar stories as well as many other examples of a limping police organization became known to us and – I guess – to everyone else who works with justice policy. All this boiled down to one conclusion when we analysed the situation: the police must have reinforcements, and quickly. Already to Annie Lööf Christmas speech in 2015 we announced from the Center Party a venture that we thought was huge: 2.1 billion. That was what we had come up with would be needed to meet the urgent need. The government was then totally cold-hearted about this. The then Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman answered questions about it and dismissed it with the fact that the police would now be more effective and through these efficiency improvements still do their job. We received similar answers from then chief of police Dan Eliasson. The tactic seems to have been trying to starve the police to force efficiency improvements. The hypothesis seems to have been that if the police don't have any money, they can't spend it either. That's true, but then they can't do their job and do their important job. This, Madam President, is almost the absolute zero point of leadership. Leadership is about setting the right kind of requirements and providing reasonable conditions. Here, however, they started from the other direction and removed the conditions without any idea of how the organisation would work or how Sweden's security would be secured.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-164	Madam President, I would like We are in a political context where fear, polarisation and the unknown are used to tear society apart. All of a sudden, suburbs are no go zones, every asylum seeker is a potential terrorist to be expelled and insecurity among women is something new that has never been found before. The bourgeois alliance uses the police as political hostages to reach out with its doomsday picture of Sweden. There nothing works – the system collapse is close. Crimes are on the increase, and the police can't solve the situation. Unemployment is increasing, the sickness rate is increasing. And when the Convention on the Rights of the Child is to be introduced as a Swedish law, you find that it is some kind of Islamic sharia law that is to be introduced in Swedish law. The situation right now is, to say the least, up the walls. It seems possible to say exactly anything without caring whether it is true or false. In fact, almost none of this is true. The economic situation in Sweden is good. Unemployment is falling. A lot of people are doing well. Violence in the public environment in Stockholm has also fallen drastically. Much may be better, but the doomsday is not near. What's true is that the police are having a bit of a rough time right now. Moreover, it is claimed from the Moderates in particular that the number of sexual crimes has increased, but it is in fact a feminist revolution that has taken place in society with Metoo. Women who have been victims of sexual crimes finally call the police and report this. The Moderates interpret this as an increase in crime. When we women, who have been exposed throughout our lifetime, finally report profits to the Moderates on the exploitation of women by patriarchal society. It is typical that as a woman I am the one who has to raise this issue. It is typical that we have a bourgeois alliance that cannot see and use the Metoo as the revolution it actually is. It is very significant to us who are feminists in the Red Green Government that we are making a metoo effort of 120 million in the budget. It is more important for the bourgeois alliance to kick the government and play police bingo than to show a genuine interest in creating a stable and good police authority to fight crime. The winner is the one who can spend the most millions on the police, without a thought that the police do not work alone or a thought that the police's main colleagues are teachers, social security officers and fielders. But it's not as politically popular to argue about the wages of social secretaries. It doesn't make such nice headlines in the evening media.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-172	Madam President, I would like There does not seem to be any acceptance for our analysis of the image that we are trying to convey about the insecurity of society and that we actually have fewer and fewer police officers. When the Liberals say that we need to change the reorganisation decision, it is not, as the Minister says, so that we want to tear everything up. The fact is, Madam President, that the reorganisation is not fully implemented, as the Minister said earlier. In September this year, the organisation for the whole of Blekinge and northeastern Skåne changes when it comes to the police area – the police area is being redesigned to adapt it. It has been concluded that this solution was not the best. That is why we believe that organisational changes are needed. For example, the county police officers are still here. Our thought when we made the decision here in Parliament was that they should not remain at county level, but we have thus got an additional level in this bureaucracy that we are critical of. The second thing that we have tried to raise here over the last two and a half years is that the resources that would go down to local police chiefs have not been fully achieved in the way that would be done according to Parliament's decision. There is too much resources and for many good police officers and other employees recruited to regional offices and to the national departments – not least this concerns communication, staff and the National Operations Department. The whole purpose of the parliamentary decision was to get down and get resources, but it has become just the opposite. At least that analysis or conclusion should we be able to agree on? It is the consequence of this, Madam President, that you cannot go out in all the villa crimes that you may have done before, which means that you do not have youth groups, that you do not have surveillance groups and that you do not have drug groups left to prevent and disrupt drug dealers. This is the consequence of this reorganisation. As far as my questions are concerned, I am unfortunately leaving this debate empty-handed. I haven't been informed of a targeted $4,000 pay bet for all police officers. I have not been told how to fill the hundreds of empty places in police training. There are 259 empty seats this spring. I'm not interested in knowing what the end result will be by the end of 2018, when we possibly nosed up over 20,000 police officers. Both in 2010 and 2014 we actually had over 20 000 police officers in Sweden. And it can't be that the Social Democrats' ambition and goal is to achieve 20,100 police officers by the end of 2018, when we have passed 10 million inhabitants? We now have under 200 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants, and in 2016 we had 216 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. The problem is that we have the lowest police density in ten years. It has nothing to do with the police academy and the number of places there, but this is the consequence of the dramatic police dropout that we have seen since 2015. We have stood here and said this, Madam President, 2015, 2016, 2017 and now 2018. But the government says lightly that it is not because of this development, but because it is because of us, that is, what we did in 2006–2014. It's an unserious combat technique.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-180	Madam President, I would like To increase police density, more police officers are required – it's not harder than that – but this was not delivered by the government. However, more police officers are not all it takes to solve the problems, because many problems today have a different, new character than crime used to have. Let's see how witnesses are frightened to silence. About a year ago, a family in Staffanstorp testified against a criminal gang. They did their duty as citizens of society, and a 27-year-old criminal ended up where he belongs, behind bars. In February, the answer came from the criminal gang. A bomb exploded outside the family home. This is how criminal gangs try to establish an alternative legal order where violence takes precedence and where the culture of silence spreads at the expense of victims and all law-abiding people in our country. How will the police manage to convince the next person to testify? Of course, it will help if there are more of them, as we have talked about here today. But what if no Witness dares to talk to the police and stand and testify in court? Sweden needs to tighten the penalties for violations of law and criminalise participation in criminal gangs, and we need to introduce anonymous witnesses. Anyone who does his duty to testify should never have to be afraid. The police must also be helped by new technology. Even if we were to introduce anonymous witnesses, the human eye cannot see everything. The police need camera surveillance. It may take years today to obtain permission for camera surveillance. While policemen fill out forms, gang-criminal pockets fill with money. Barriers to camera surveillance exist for privacy reasons, but residents in every exposed area where cameras are set up welcome them. Yeah, maybe not in Araby, Växjö. There were some who protested, the criminals, and I think we should let them protest. The criminal gangs are trying to take a place in society when the police can no longer be present everywhere. This weekend a fire was started at the social welfare office in Vivalla, Örebro. We still don't know anything about the motive. But this type of attack is destroying our social functions, for who is affected by a social office burning in a vulnerable area? Of course, it affects vulnerable people. Regardless of the perpetrator, we know who benefits from it, namely those who exploit the most vulnerable in society, those who can lure a person into crime when social services can no longer do their job in destroyed premises. The Christian Democrats therefore want to impose a heavy penalty for attacks on vital social functions. Anyone who attacks a school, a social office or a hospital attacks the fabric of our community. More police officers with more resources and sharper coercive measures lead the way to a safer Sweden and enable a strong civil society. It enables parents to take responsibility and enables companies to establish themselves but also to continue their business. We know that every third entrepreneur today is concerned about the crime experienced. A strong police force is the guarantor of companies to establish and continue, for a strong civil society and a society that holds together. That is why it is so extremely important to take the reduction in police density very seriously, and that is why the Alliance's proposal and the Christian Democrats' proposal on police spending but also targeted police salaries are so urgent. The government side has not responded to those proposals in this debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-190	Madam President, I would like What is needed now is long-term sustainability and stability in the organisation. Last term of office, the Moderates lowered taxes and cut down on police training. Then you borrowed abroad to make ends meet. That's the story of the Moderates. And that's how it's gonna be again if you can't get ahead of yourself. There is no indication that you would make such a priority. It could get even worse, because whatever I hear, at least from Roger Haddad, are you now in again and sneezing at the organization, which you are going to tear up? Are you going to tear up the reorganization? I asked Roger Haddad and he said, "No, we're not going to tear up the whole thing." No, but what about a little bit? Does anyone believe that all the police officers who have just gone through a major reorganisation will be reassured by that announcement? I don't think so. I would like a clear answer from the Alliance if you stick to the reorganisation or not. It is clear that adjustments may need to be made, but that has the Head of State's mandate to do so. He does not need Roger Haddad to do so, but that mandate has the chief of police to decide for himself in that case. We need stability and long-termism. If the police get it, they'll deliver as well. Just look at what has happened in recent times! They have gathered force against organised crime, for example through the Max initiative in Stockholm, the power collection in Malmö, the decline in shootings in Gothenburg. We now have 98% occupancy in our detention centres. We'll have to expand the number of detentions this year by 250 more. Why? Because the police are simply delivering. You arrest more of the most criminals. It is now that the reinforcement of resources, the new organisation and the new power of the police are manifesting themselves.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very clear debate with the Minister, the government parties and also the Left Party for that matter! Everything's fine. Just move on. We don't even have a problem with sexual crimes in Sweden. I can inform you that when we talk about doubling vulnerability, we are talking about the national security survey, a measurement that was made even before the important discussion on metoo. The Minister is now doing everything he can not to mention why he does not want to raise police salaries. Now he would rather talk about the reorganisation and not about my colleague Roger Haddad's statement that perhaps everything has not been perfect in the reorganisation. Yes, we talk in the Alliance about, among other things, the need for specialised sexual crime groups in order for us to be better able to face many of the problems we see about sexual crime. That's how we work in the Alliance. We're trying to bring in what the police say and what problems we have with crime. On that basis, we are also presenting politics. In this debate, we have given the government and also the Left Party the opportunity to draw the final conclusion. If we are serious about meeting the common challenge of 10 000 more police workers, we will not get away with the issue of wages. It is clear that we need to make that effort in order to retain more experienced police officers and attract record numbers to the profession. Fortunately, the Swedish people have an opportunity on 9 September. Then they can vote for a new alliance government that will strengthen the police, tighten the penalties and push back crime in Sweden. We need that.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-202	Madam President, I would like I also think that this debate has been clarifying in many ways. Perhaps the biggest conflict is about the targeted wage effort, and here I think the alliance parties are revealing themselves. When there is a possible parliamentary majority to make a targeted salary effort on the police, what does the Alliance do? Well, separate draft budgets are being presented and the Red-Green Government is being called upon to do what you want to do yourself. It's not credible. If you put the police's situation first, at any given moment you must start from how to get the maximum verdict for your own policy, and here the Alliance has failed to implement important pieces to strengthen the Swedish police. The Christian Democrats spoke of anonymous witnesses, which is something I would also like to emphasise. It is not just a question of money and money, it is a question of opportunities for the judiciary to arrest criminals for serious crimes. The opportunity to witness anonymously will be crucial in getting people to start witnessing against the organised crime that grew strong under the alliance government and even stronger under the Red Green Government. The number of particularly vulnerable areas has increased, and the serious crimes have become worse, putting terror in residential areas. The question of anonymous witnesses has been going on for a long time. However, we see that liberal forces within the Alliance are opposed to the proposal for anonymous witnesses; the Center Party is opposed to this proposal. So we also have a conflict of effectiveness and the possibility for the judiciary to go further with clear proposals that put organised crime in place. Here the liberal forces of the Alliance are an obstacle, and I regret that.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-208	Madam President, I would like Perhaps this debate has been clarification, but I am also concerned. I'm worried by an opposition that seems to be so dedicated to a quick fix. Where has responsibility gone? Anyone who has ever been involved in a reorganization knows that it takes time and that it hurts but that if you endure it goes the way and you get a modern organization. Anyone who has been involved in long-term wage increases knows that it takes time. This is not a matter of rapid cash, but of long-term work where policy must ensure that resources are available so that the parties can agree on new initiatives. When I listen to the Alliance, it seems that you have not heard that we agree on the matter, because there are rapid blows coming from the side that make me start to worry again. I wonder where reason and listening went because you think everything is going fast. It does not go fast in reality, and it does not go fast on one of Sweden's largest authorities. But if we continue on the path that the government, supported by the Left Party, has set out, there will be a change, and then we will see better working conditions and higher salaries for the police and increased security in Sweden.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-212	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the friends of the Moderates who initiated this debate. We have heard many good and wise contributions, and many good wills have been presented. To the audience, I want to raise the finger of warning about something to watch out for. When a subject is discussed and debaters suddenly start talking about something else, they probably feel that they are not winning that debate and therefore prefer to talk about taxes or government issues. A rhetorical technique that is sometimes used is a so-called strawman, that is to say that the opponent has an opinion that he does not have. This is what the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs does when he accuses the Liberals of Roger Haddad of wanting to tear up the organisational reform. There is absolutely no such intention from either the Liberals, as far as I know, or the Alliance. Instead, it is just as Morgan Johansson himself says, that adjustments may be needed, and here we fully agree with the government. So to the resource issue. Lately, the government made promises of more resources. It was fast from a map and not to what you yourself rallied over as a police bingo. But better a late awakening than nothing at all. The problem is that every day it becomes more expensive and harder to reverse the trend. Our investment started in 2015 with SEK 2.1 billion in reinforcement. Now our investment of 9 billion is now, and I have doubts as to whether that will be enough. A further 1 billion is needed to strengthen the rest of the legal chain: the courthouse, witness protection and NFC, the National Forensic Centre, which is today a bottleneck. You don't become a cop to get rich, but you might avoid becoming a cop because you don't want to be poor. Here we must provide the conditions for wage increases.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-218	Madam President, I would like I have the funniest job in the world, but don't tell anyone, a cop told me. I think that's how many cops feel: I have the best job in the world, but it's a little heavy right now. As a police officer you experience an incredible amount, and it is a very varied job. It is important, risky and stimulating. Police work also engages the public. The police's duties concern us all. It is the police who are supposed to keep order, create security and be there when we are at our most vulnerable. That's why you get upset when the police after the police testify that it doesn't work: We're too few, we earn too little and we can't really do it. The big question is how to solve the police situation. It does not matter how upset we are in this House; we have to solve the problem. It is about the allocation of more financial resources and the number of trained people, but it is also about an organisation that needs to sit down and have peace of mind. Do not turn the police into a political bat to criticize the government, but trust that the police as an authority can carry out their mission. Of course, we should be at the service of providing the necessary resources, as is done in the budget that has been presented. However, we must not turn a blind eye to the challenges facing the police, and that is why we politicians must be careful to impose more tasks on the police just because the issue is high on the political agenda.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-224	Madam President, I would like We Liberals, too, would like to thank our moderate colleagues for initiating this important debate. We have tried to raise the problem of the police dropout, which is the most urgent in terms of the Police Authority, and asked for measures to attract back the hundreds of police officers who have left and, not least, to keep the police officers who enjoy their job but think it is heavy, just as Linda Snecker was on the subject. Unfortunately, I note that the proposals we have seen from the government will not deal with the emergency situation today, but will refer to future training rounds in 2019 and 2020. It is important for the public – those with whom the Liberals chose to open this debate – and their security to signal that it is important that we can quickly attract the police officers who have left the police profession. This requires a better working environment. We in the Liberals feel it was a pity that the government closed the investigation in 2015 to streamline police work. The question of career opportunities and development opportunities was raised as a government assignment only last year. One should work all this year, so we will not see any concrete, actual changes, even though we have this tough situation. What we have chosen to raise in particular in our budget this year is a salary increase for the police of 4 000 per month, for all police officers. We do not see any concrete proposals from the government here either. Finally, I note that in 2015, 2016 and 2017, more police officers left the profession than were employed. That is the problem: it is not attractive enough. I hope that with this debate we have shown how we want to reverse this trend.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-230	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the Moderates for the initiative for this urgent debate. The big question has been whether there should be a targeted wage investment on the police in the budget, in order to raise police salaries, especially for those in external service, on which we have focused, and in order to put an end to the mass leaps we have seen, with record numbers of young police officers who have left the profession while we see that insecurity is increasing. The Christian Democrats have a plan for how to reach 10,000 more police officers by 2025. The government is swinging with this number but lacks a plan for how we reach so many more police officers. We think that a plan is needed to increase police density when we see that it is the lowest in ten years. Morgan Johansson was evil about posts related to the police reorganisation. We've received word from several of my alliance partners. It is clear that the basis of the police reorganisation is solid, but what the Liberals, the Moderates and we Christian Democrats are talking about is that we need to make some adjustments. As far as we are concerned, it is about rolling back part of the mandate to the local police chiefs. The aim of the whole reorganisation was to increase the pressure on the organisation and to get more resources and more people in the local police areas. Now that we see that this has not been the case, it is not enough just to stand here in the speaker's chair, as Morgan Johansson did, and to say that it is clear that adjustments may be needed. Yes, so do we, and that is why we are pointing to a number of adjustments that need to be made. Save the breast tones when it comes to the Alliance wanting to tear up the entire reorganisation, and make concrete proposals for the adjustments that you think need to be made instead! I think that would be more honorable in a debate on how to get more resources for the police in the local police areas. Increase police density rather than swing with concepts and make up arguments that do not exist! Thank you for the debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. I have to say that I honestly do not think that there was much more clarification. We don't agree on that. On the issue of wages, open doors are being opened. There the parties have assumed their responsibilities. I note that there is already a substantial increase in wages in the spring. The Moderates are talking about a few thousand in three years. That's their promise. Thus, as early as this spring, there is an increase in wages which is the highest in the labour market. An agreement has been signed that is substantially above the so-called brand for other groups. It seems that in the Alliance you are completely obsessed with the issue of wages. In other discussions in this House, you want to legislate on lower wages for low-income earners, and then you want to take a parliamentary decision on increased salaries for other groups. The issue of wages as a whole lies with the parties to take responsibility for – it is an important part of the labour market model. If you wanted to set salaries, you should have engaged your trade unions, because that is where pay issues and wage formation are discussed. Then, of course, we will ensure that we have the resources to manage the agreements that are concluded. That goes without saying, and that is precisely why we are now increasing the availability of resources as much as we do for the police. There was little more clarification on the organisational issue. What I heard was that one of your predecessors said that parts should be torn up. Another said just now that we're going to roll back the mandate. I say, and that is the signal that I think goes out to some police officers, that this mandate must in fact be on the authority. I trust it, and I trust the chief of police to make the right judgements. We should not go in politically and keep in touch and regulate too much detail there, but we should give them the conditions. They will do just fine, and they will deliver the best.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-245	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I intend to take some initiative in connection with the proposal from the Swedish Farmers' Federation, LRF, and the Swedish Hunters' Association, and whether I am prepared to take the initiative for a legislative change in order to give hunters the opportunity to sell trichineated wild boar meat in smaller volumes directly to consumers as well as to traders, such as local restaurants. I would like to start by saying that I am well aware of the problems caused by wild boars, both in traffic and in agriculture, and that it is important to overcome this. The government is continuously working on the wild boar issue and follows the results of various actors' initiatives. In the national food strategy, the Government makes the assessment that the growth potential of the Swedish game market should be taken into account and that the possibility of felling of game should be increased, although it is of course consumers who are driving demand. At the same time, when it comes to wild boars, we must take into account the fact that they distinguish themselves from other game because they can be carriers of Trichinella. This places other requirements in order to achieve an approved level of food safety. For the government, it is essential that the health of consumers is not compromised by foods that may be harmful. At present, wild boar meat must pass through an approved game handling establishment before it can be delivered to the consumer. In a system where hunters are able to sell wild boar meat directly to consumers, the same level of food safety must be achieved. The Government has received the proposal from the LRF and the Swedish Hunter Association, and we will now look into it. I very much welcome the fact that farmers and hunters are involved in the wild boar issue together. A broad commitment from all parties is required to address the problems caused by wild boars, but also to exploit the hunting resource of wild boars. My goal and that of the government is that we should have a well-functioning and efficient handling of wild boar meat, where the meat that reaches the market is safe.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-251	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This is an issue that I have been very committed to for quite a few years now. The first time I highlighted this issue in this House was in 2012 or 2013. At the same time, I think this is an important issue – to create better outlets for wild boar meat in order to simply create better opportunities for increased hunting pressure on wild boars. As the Minister mentioned in his reply, wild boars cause a great deal of damage, especially to agriculture but also to traffic. I would like to recall that last year there were some 6,000 road accidents. There are also many homeowners, football associations, and others who have been hit hard by wild boars in gardens and on football fields. At the same time, wild boar is a fantastic game. It is a game that many hunters appreciate hunting, and it is a good meat and a good food that more should discover. Therefore, it is good that it is highlighted in the food strategy and that the knowledge is slowly but surely increasing among consumers, restaurateurs and others that wild boar meat is a good resource to take advantage of. We have seen an almost explosive increase in the number of wild boars in Sweden. I looked at the launch statistics back in time. In 1990 there were no more than 334 wild boars. This compares with last year's 102 923. It is a fairly clear indicator of how quickly the wild boar strain has grown. The hunters have become better at hunting, and the knowledge of the hunters' corps has increased. Better dogs have also been found. We have also done a great deal of political work to improve the conditions for good governance. For example, the Alliance government created better opportunities to have fixed lighting at baits and to have image amplifiers. And now, at last, we are about to find a solution to the question of bait cameras. So these are important issues. But it remains precisely the outlets that are the Achilles heel. That is what makes hunting pressure do not increase any more and that hunting pressure is simply insufficient to keep the stock in balance and keep the damage levels on for agriculture and other acceptable levels. When I'm around Sweden and meet farmers in some parts of Sweden, they say that wild boar tribes are the biggest problem against the potential of farms to develop and that this is one of the most important contributing reasons for actually thinking about quitting their business. It is a sign that wild boar management is not yet fully operational and that the shooting is not large enough. It is then precisely the outlets that are central and important. No one hunts to throw away the meat. That is why today we see a situation where many hunters hunt until their own freezer is full. But then they don't go on selling because it gets too messy to walk through a game handling plant. Madam President, I would like Since I raised this issue for the first time, we have seen that since 2012, Germany has had a system in which hunters have been allowed to sell meat directly to consumers, restaurateurs and others and that it has worked well. I therefore welcome the fact that in this reply the Minister for Rural Development was much more open than he was when we last debated this issue two years ago in this House. The Minister's answer was then: at present I am not prepared to make any changes. Now, thank God, there was some other sound in the bark and a much greater openness. The Minister is therefore happy to publish the text on how the work ahead now looks at the proposal that has been presented by the Hunters' Association and the Farmers' Federation.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-259	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Hultberg, who has highlighted this very important issue. When many of us are out listening to the farmers, they say that profitability is worrying for the dairy farmers. The second thing they almost always raise is the wild boars and the troubles they bring. Just as we heard here, the wild boars do enormous damage with their wailing. For agriculture, this costs over 1 billion. That is why it is so important that we now actually get something done. When I'm out talking to farmers, they say that we should get away from this stage of talk to do something and make a difference. As Mr Hultberg mentioned, it is the hunters who are so important to us. They're our best friends in this case, because they shoot a lot of boars. But the concern, as we have been in here, is that we must not even give away wild boar meat today. You can use it yourself and put it in your own freezer and on your own grill. But when there are so many wild boars, it is clear that it is troubling when you do not get rid of this meat. The system that Germany has works very well. Therefore, we do not need to come up with anything new, but we can see what other countries are doing. I think it is interesting that the Minister for Rural Development is now saying that he is looking with interest at the proposal that we Christian Democrats have also been talking about getting more outlets for the meat, that is, that hunters themselves can sell the meat after the Trichinella test is made for restaurants in Stockholm or elsewhere. Today it is almost difficult to find wild boar meat. My question to the Government is: What problems and challenges does the Government see that it needs to work on this proposal? There may be some authority that does not find this interesting or important enough. If so, I would like to know what the Government intends to do about this.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-265	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased and positive about the commitment shown by Members Johan Hultberg and Magnus Oscarsson on this issue. We have a very large population of wild boars-- according to estimates almost 300 000, which is very many. The government's objective is that we have a functioning management of wild boars, both in terms of animal welfare and in terms of numbers. This is where the hunting effort is extremely important. I also think that hunters have taken a very great responsibility to reduce the strain. As we heard, more than 100,000 have been fired in recent years, and the launch has increased considerably. It is very important that both hunters and farmers get involved in this matter. There is a need for a broad commitment from all stakeholders. You can of course increase the launch in many different ways. It is not just the disposal of meat that drives this. The bill that we will be presenting shortly on camera surveillance will make it easier to have bait cameras. So there are many parts to facilitate the launch. SLU has conducted a broad survey among farmers of wild boar injuries. It points to enormous amounts of damage that agriculture has – 1.5 billion, i.e. an average of 29 000 per farmer. These are huge amounts of money that have to be managed in some way for the companies that are affected. Previous studies carried out, including by SCB, show more than 42 000 tonnes of cereals destroyed by wild boars. Then there are the terrible traffic accidents caused by wild boars. The government actually wanted to address this problem in 2016 when we presented a bill to the Riksdag, when we wanted to ban the feeding of wild boar during the vegetation period. Given the commitment shown by both Mr Hultberg and Mr Oscarsson here, it was a pity that both voted against this bill which would have actually allowed us to keep the tribe down. It was a ban during the vegetation period where there are opportunities to find feed in a natural way. This was rejected by the bourgeois parties together with the Swedish Democrats. It's unfortunate. It was a measure that was very much in demand, not least by Swedish farmers. I have met many farmers after the handling in Parliament who are extremely disappointed that we could not get it through. I said I can't take responsibility for it. It was a bourgeois majority, together with the Swedish Democrats, who stood for that decision. Madam President, I would like Earlier alliance government has also given the Finnish Food Authority a mandate on two occasions. It looked at whether it could be simplified and removed from the requirement of wild game management facilities. Unfortunately, the Alliance did nothing despite the fact that there were two investigations in 2008 and 2010. Now we sit down with authorities and organisations to look at how we can solve this. It's about food safety, Magnus Oscarsson.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-275	Madam President, I would like In any case, I think that the Minister initially argued very well in his speech for the need for change that we Moderates have been pushing for a number of years alone in Parliament but which now apparently more people have taken an interest in. I very much welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats and Magnus Oscarsson here clearly express their support for the proposal from the Swedish Farmers' Federation and the Swedish Hunters' Association. This is precisely in line with the proposal we Moderates have put forward here in Parliament. It is a question of allowing the sale of pig meat directly from hunters to consumers, restaurants and other traders. This should of course be done with requirements for Trichinella testing and also with training and traceability requirements, but without requiring it to detour via a game handling facility. The Minister was rumbled here that the Alliance did nothing in the matter during its years. Let me remind you then that the Minister said only two years ago when he himself stood here that he was not prepared to make any changes. I welcome whether the Minister has changed his mind and is now prepared to look at the issue. I want to move forward. I want to find a better order than the one that prevails today. I want to say the problem of extensive wild pig damage to agriculture and others. Then this is a key issue. The concern of the then alliance government and the reason why the Minister showed no opening two years ago when we last debated the issue of food safety. In my opinion, I have been strengthened by the German example, among other things. It is possible to allow the sale of wild pig meat directly from hunters to consumers, restaurants and other traders without requiring it to pass through a game handling establishment. In Germany, 500 000 or 600 000 wild boars are sold that way each year. There has not been a single case of Trichinella-infected meat coming to the consumer level. This is a good example of the fact that it is possible to find a regulatory framework that meets the demands set out by the Minister, namely that it should be effective and safe. There is every possibility of introducing such a system in Sweden as well. We Moderates alone have been doing that for a long time. We also see that France is now about to introduce, or if it has already introduced, a system similar to that of the German and also our Nordic neighbours on the other side of the Baltic Sea in Finland. More countries recognise that it is possible to create good systems for selling wild boar meat in combination with maintaining a high level of food safety. It is, as the Minister did, very good that the Swedish Hunters' Association, together with the Swedish Farmers' Federation, is doing a common cause on the matter and working together. It is a key to creating better wild boar management. That is where it has often broken locally and regionally. It has cut itself between hunters and landowners and between hunters and farmers. Good cooperation is essential in order to achieve better management. When it comes to feeding, we from the Alliance said no to what we thought was a poorly designed proposal. We are in favour of better regulation of feeding, but we rejected the general ban. For example, there were clear problems with the distinction between feeding and bait and other concerns. We are waiting in the Chamber of Parliament for the government to come back with a better-designed and more accurate proposal. There are problems with feeding. But the Minister is also well aware that much of today's feeding problems are already regulated. The excessive feeding of whole truck bodies and other things is already prohibited today.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-286	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! This is a huge worry. When you look at it, it is still interesting that there is a feeling that we want to tackle the problem together. That's the important thing and that we're getting away from blaming each other. I heard the government a little bit blamed the Alliance's eight years. Now we have seen what the Minister has done for four years. But don't worry about it. The important thing is that we get on with it. We can now see that we can make a difference for all these farmers and others who are in trouble. I spoke to a farmer this week. He was driving. Then there were over 100 wild boars across the road that he could count. It was just in one place. There's a lot of wild boars. The farmer said it's clear that the price of milk is troubling. But wild boars are an incredibly big worry. Machines are breaking down. The feed they're going to give to the animals is destroyed and so on. We really need to sit down and do something about it. It's incredibly important. Just as we talked about before, we need to remove all the obstacles we can in order for it to be shot more. We really need to come up with proposals to do that. My question once again concerns the Swedish Food Agency. Can the Minister for Rural Development think of pointing with his whole hand here so that we can get it on the track so that it really understands that we now want to make a difference in Swedish politics?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-293	Mr President, I would like to I certainly don't ralinate and I don't blame others either. I'm just stating the facts. During the alliance government, investigations were set up on two occasions – in 2008 and 2010 – and commissioned the Swedish Food Administration to look at whether it could be simplified. The proposals were also for consultation. Unfortunately, these consultations were very negative, and none of the proposals were made. It referred to high costs of control and so on. Those are facts. The facts are also that we presented a bill in the Riksdag 2016. It could have greatly reduced the damage to farmers in particular if the general ban on feeding were imposed during the vegetation period. So are the facts. It's not ralliing or blaming anyone. There is reason to emphasise this. As far as the food strategy is concerned, we have also had action plans there to target the area. This is the grant of 6 million to promote Swedish wildlife. This money is handled by the Board of Agriculture. There are two projects that have applied for and received money that is about boars. It is about improving the reputation of wild boar meat and the processing of wild boar meat. There are ongoing activities to improve the possibilities to sell wild boar meat. We have also allocated EUR 25 million in one of the food strategy's action programmes for a pilot and cooperation project. For example, it may be a matter of promoting game and reindeer meat as food. So there are also financial means to change this. The government is working to take a holistic approach. There's a lot of different parts of this. We are now going to sit in a round table with all interested parties and discuss the proposal. But there's one thing that we're not going to twiddle about-- that's what I said in my answer as well-- and that's food safety. I won't point a finger at the Food Administration, Magnus Oscarsson. I don't. It's not a minister's role to point a finger at an authority... absolutely not. Food safety will not be missed. I do not know whether the Members themselves are hunting boars. But if you do, you'll know it's very hard to hunt wildly. I have hunted boar myself on several occasions. It goes very fast, there are small impact areas and there is a very high risk of abdominal gunshots. If you are a hunter, you know what it means about contamination, food safety and problems around this game. It's not an easy game. Wild boars are also often hunted during the warm season, and it requires that you get cooling quite quickly. That is also why the 150 approved game handling facilities, where hunters can submit, exist, and that is to ensure precisely food safety. These are approved establishments. And let us not forget that entrepreneurs have invested quite a lot of money in their facilities. There are great demands on safety and how the meat should be handled in the plants. They have the capacity to receive more game. They haven't reached the roof in any way. As I have mentioned, I will look further at the proposal. But there are many parts to this. It's not just simple. We also need to think about these entrepreneurs.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-302	Mr President, I would like to As I was talking about, I think it is much easier to act when there are concrete experiences to learn from a large country, Germany, which has been running a system since 2012. In the past, both the current and the former Minister for Rural Development have said no, on the basis of concerns about the fact that a simpler system will not be able to maintain a high level of food safety. But now there is experience from Germany where about half a million wild boars are sold through a corresponding system each year. And there, no trichinella-contaminated meat has reached consumer level. I think that these experiences suggest that we in Sweden, too, could introduce a corresponding system. It is not that it is easier to hunt the German wild boars than the Swedish ones. Nor, of course, is it a more favourable climate in Germany than in Sweden. It is more the opposite, a warmer climate there than we have here. My message is therefore that, if possible in Germany, it is also possible in Sweden. As I said, I am in favour of the Minister not saying unreservedly no, but at least the door has opened and invites to round table discussions and opens to look at the issue. I am convinced that a good solution can be found here and that this is an absolutely necessary issue in order to deal with the too large tribes of wild boars that we have today. I do not think that in the short term it would be negative for the game handling facilities. On the contrary, I believe that if more Swedes are given the opportunity to discover the fine wild boar meat, by buying a piece of the neighbour or colleague, then the demand from the game handling facilities will also increase when more restaurateurs realise that this is a good meat to serve. I therefore believe that it would have been beneficial for the game-handling facilities as well.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-306	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned, the launch has increased significantly in recent years. That's very good. We should remember that these are large quantities of meat – 3 000 tonnes of high-quality meat, which unfortunately does not reach the market. It is clear that we need to make it easier for it to reach the market and for us to achieve a greater roll-off. There are possibilities for that. There is no way to underscore the fact that there is a great potential in this. It is also important that we cherish confidence. Consumers must be able to rely on the food that comes onto the market. I have noted that Svenskt Viltkött, which is an industry organisation, has rejected the proposal with regard to food safety. They claim that food safety cannot be achieved. They certainly represent those who have the 150 game handling facilities. But when we move on, we'll look at that part too. It is extremely important that this meat, if it is put on the market, is also free from Trichinella. If we go on this line, it must also maintain a hygienic quality, just the same quality as the meat that comes from the game-handling establishments. I agree with the honourable Members that we need to increase the launch. But we must never risk the health of consumers in any way with this meat. Thank you for a good debate!
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-311	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me three questions about Sweden's work against antibiotic resistance in the EU. The first question concerns what I and the Swedish Government are doing to push forward so that the EU's antibiotics strategy becomes a powerful tool in the work against the over-use of antibiotics in European animal production. The second question concerns how I assess the possibility of a ban on the use of antibiotics in the EU for prevention purposes. And the third question relates to what I and the government are doing to spread the positive Swedish example of how good disease protection and good animal care lead to a very low prescription of antibiotics in animal husbandry. Antibiotic resistance is a very important issue. It is a threat to human and animal health and welfare. Absence of the treatment of common infections poses a major challenge, both in medical care and in the production of animal food. The situation in Sweden is still favourable, but the level of antibiotic resistance is also increasing here. The European Commission presented an updated action plan against antibiotic resistance in June 2017. Sweden was very active and gave its views in order to achieve as concrete and forward-looking an action plan as possible. I believe that the action plan will be a valuable tool for the Commission and the Member States to use in the work against antibiotic resistance. One of the main tools for over-use of antibiotics in animal production is the future regulation on veterinary medicinal products. Here the government has pushed for a stronger regulatory framework than the Commission proposed, not least in terms of how antibiotics may be used for preventive purposes. The government's line has had a great impact on the position of the Council, and we hope that it will also stand up in the further negotiations. Antibiotics should only be used preventively in individuals under certain conditions. At the moment, trilogue negotiations are taking place between Parliament, the Council and the Commission. I hope that we can reach an agreement already in spring or early autumn. In the context of the EU Action Plan, cooperation has also been initiated, one of the aims of which is to share knowledge and experience between Member States and sectors. The government is active in this cooperation, and I see it as an excellent platform for Sweden to share the basics and principles that make us have the unique position we have today. The Commission has also launched a project in which some Member States are visited to collect information on how the countries work towards responsible use of antibiotics in animals. A compilation of good advice and ideas will be made available to all Member States to use in their work. To conclude, I would like to say that the commitment of the government is not limited to the work of the European Union. We also contribute to the global work against antibiotic resistance by spreading knowledge and experience within a variety of collaborations and forums. The development of resistance is taking place all over the world, and since we still have a good situation in Sweden, our work will have the greatest impact if it happens outside Sweden's borders.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-320	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good that we have a great deal of agreement in Sweden that Sweden will continue to be a leading country in this area and that this is a particularly serious challenge that the world must address. Sweden has a lot to contribute there. We are extremely good compared to other countries when it comes to having a low antibiotic use. This applies to human medicine, i.e. Swedish health care, and that we have gone further there than many other countries, but this applies especially to agriculture where our Swedish farmers thanks to a fantastic work to maintain a good level of infection protection, a good level of knowledge and not least a great commitment have a very low use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. Without effective antibiotics, which I am highlighting in the interpellation, normal cancer treatments, transplants and very common operations will not be able to be carried out in the future. In any case, the risks are much greater in this type of operation. Today, we are already seeing how healthcare suffers from problems with antibiotic resistance. The European Disease Control Agency estimates that 25 000 deaths in the EU are already due to antibiotic resistance. I think that clearly demonstrates the seriousness of this challenge, and therefore, of course, I am pleased to hear the Minister's reply here that Sweden has heard important points of view in its work at European level. As regards the situation in Europe, I looked, among other things, at the latest report by the European Medicines Agency, which showed that Sweden, which is always the lowest in the use of antibiotics in the EU and that the Germans, as we have just debated, use 8 times more antibiotics than they do in Swedish agriculture. In Poland it is 12 times more, and in Spain it is up to 34 times more. It shows the potential for reducing the use of antibiotics in Europe. It is good if we can get a tougher regulatory framework at European level that says no to the use of antibiotics for preventive purposes. Now the Minister said here that antibiotics should only be used under certain conditions, and then, of course, I will be curious as to what these conditions are. The risk is that the ban on the use of antibiotics for preventive purposes will be toothless if there is a long list of possible exceptions. The Minister is happy to tell you a little about what the conditions might be. Above all, I hope that the Minister will continue to push for the list to be as short as possible and so there will be as few possible exceptions. Mr President, I would like to Over 90% of all antibiotic use in animals in Europe is given to whole groups of animals. For example, a whole pig herd can be treated with antibiotics. The corresponding figure in Sweden is 10 per cent. Here we treat our animals directed. We take a sick animal from the crew instead of doing what is done in the rest of Europe and treat widely and give all animals antibiotics whether they are healthy or sick. There is also a need for tougher rules at European level, and I would like to ask the Minister how things are going in this regard. Will there be tougher rules and, in the long term, will there perhaps also be a ban on group treatment of healthy animals with antibiotics?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-326	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very good that this issue should come up for discussion in this House. D shows the long commitment of Sweden and the government. The issue of antibiotic resistance was of course current in Sweden already in the 80's. We were the first in the world to ban antibiotics in animal growth-promoting feed as early as 1986, that is, over 30 years ago. It was a ban that we pushed on to the whole of Europe. Mr Hultberg is asking about this with certain conditions, and it is about, among other things, that if you do certain interventions on individuals you have to give antibiotics for prevention purposes, just as on people when you have to give it in certain operations to ensure a good status. I am not a veterinarian and can no more detail than that in relation to this. Sweden has a unique situation in terms of both use and resistance in animals. We have much less use than most other EU countries, as Mr Hultberg points out here. Its use is declining in some countries, but unfortunately it goes up in other countries. So it's both in this and in this. We have a knowledge that we keep animals healthy we do not need to treat them, but at the same time we know that if there are sick animals we can use antibiotics and have an effect because we do not have the resistance that exists elsewhere in the world. With regard to long-term work, the broad consensus that has existed between authorities, industry and individual producers and also the broad political consensus and understanding of the problem have made Sweden at the forefront of the world in this area. I also think it is important that we see that we have to work internationally, because bacteria and resistance know no national boundaries. They climb across the border as easily as possible, and that is why we need to be more on the international stage and not just on the European arena when we are working on these issues. So there is still a great deal to be done both at European and international level.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-330	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your supplementary answer. I suppose it was somewhat reassuring when it comes to this with certain conditions for the use of antibiotics for preventive purposes. It sounds reasonable that it could be used, for example, if certain interventions are carried out, but again I really want to inculcate the need for the government and Sweden to be on guard to ensure that the list is not too long and that there are no loopholes for countries to continue using antibiotics for preventive purposes. I did not really get a full answer to the question of group treatment. It is an important issue for the government to continue to put pressure on the other Member States to overcome the excessive use of antibiotics linked to the very treatment of whole herds, whole groups of animals, instead of individuals. Mr President, I would like to I have been faced with rather worrying reports on issues related to the new animal health regulation in the EU. Sweden has a very good infection protection and thanks to it a low antibiotic use. We have control that we do not take in live animals in Sweden that carry serious infections that we do not have in Sweden. I am thinking, for example, of paratube rculosis affecting cattle and sheep and of PRRS affecting pig herds. Now there is pressure from many Member States to liberalise the regulatory framework and restrict Sweden's ability to check at the border whether or not animals are infected. Should this become a reality, Swedish disease protection and Sweden's uniquely good situation with regard to low antibiotic use would be jeopardised. We have been freed from this kind of disease thanks to an enormous amount of hard work, which has cost a lot of money and resources, but also a lot of emotion in Sweden's owners who have been forced to slaughter entire herds in order to reach the situation we have today in that we are free from, for example, paratuberculosis. I would really like to ask the Minister: how are those negotiations going, and what is the government doing to ensure that Sweden continues to ensure that animals introduced into the country are free from serious infections such as paratuberculosis? It is absolutely crucial, Mr President, for Sweden to continue to have good disease protection and low antibiotic use. Our farmers, their work and efforts and the tremendously good results they have achieved must be rewarded. We must also continue to be able to use this as a competitive advantage for Swedish agriculture. We point out jointly from all parties that Sweden has added value in terms of good disease protection, which hopefully we can export and benefit from when we are going to fight on the free market with other competing countries. We must not endanger it. This is a particularly important issue in which I hope the government is extremely active and, if the term is allowed, it really blows to battle in order to protect the good Swedish disease protection.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Hultberg, for raising this issue, which is extremely important. Just as the Minister was on the subject, the previous government was working very hard on this, and I know that the current government is doing the same. But you must not forget some who are really to receive praise, and that is all of Sweden's farmers. It is they who are to be honored and who are heroes. They agreed that we cannot have it this way and showed that together we can reduce the use of antibiotics. It's been good for our whole country. It's so important. It is wonderful when I think that even consumers are beginning to understand this. In Sweden, we have one of the best meats in the world, and Sweden is the country that uses the least antibiotics throughout the Union. I really think this is worth highlighting all the time. I would like to raise a question that I am thinking about. I was told that the veterinarians in Germany, for example, while taking their medical measures, are also doing another thing, which distinguishes them from Swedish veterinarians: they are also retailers of antibiotics. This means, in other words, that they may inject an extra dose of antibiotics to get a little more money. I find this very remarkable. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the Minister intends to raise this issue with his German colleagues. I think it is important to raise this. It cannot be right that, as a veterinarian in an EU country, one can also be a retailer of antibiotics. And how does the Minister intend to work for more countries to work on this and really take a real nip to reduce the use of antibiotics? It's so important to so many people.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-341	Mr President, I would like to We have been working on a strategy against antibiotic resistance that extends right up to 2020, and we are particularly active in the European and international contexts when it comes to pushing on this issue. We are, in fact, the world leader in Sweden in this respect; Sweden stands for nothing else in these matters. I can mention a few concrete points. For example, we have commissioned the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Public Health Agency to lead a collaboration function that includes 20 different authorities – One Health for real, i.e.. It's an important part. A concrete and important tool to achieve responsible use in the EU is the forthcoming regulation on veterinary medicinal products, where Sweden has been very active and has also achieved success. A key issue has been that antibiotics must not be given preventively to groups of animals. On the other hand, it can be given to prevent further spread of infection, and that is quite another matter. We have had a great deal of success in these matters. With regard to the question of paratuberculosis raised by Mr Hultberg, I do not have the detailed knowledge that I can give you a correct answer today. I ask you to ask a written question, because it is a new question that you raise from the speaker's seat. I do not have the expertise as Minister of State, but please come up with a written question and you will get an answer in almost reverse mail! Just as we in Sweden in our strategy highlight the importance of international work, so does the EU in its strategy. Here, for example, I would like to mention the bilateral trade agreements with which the EU is working in third countries. Sweden has pressed for this, and this issue has also been incorporated into all the trade agreements under discussion at EU level. This too is a Swedish success. Among other things, I raised this issue in the negotiations on the TTIP. It was Sweden's vote in the Council that ensured that the issue was even discussed there. After all, this was interrupted because of what happened in the United States, but the issues are included in the EU's discussions and always come back there. Sweden is a pioneer country. We are the world leader in this area. We also see the increasing number of questions that come to Sweden: How did you do it? How have you managed this? I've spoken to my predecessors. In the 90s they laughed a little at Sweden. Now you come and ask how we do and if we can help. We are a pioneer country and a world leader in this area, nothing else. We will continue to be.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-348	Mr President, I would like to I can promise the Minister that there will be a written question or even a new interpellation. The issue of the new EU animal health regulation and how to trade live animals in the future is really central and linked to what we are now discussing: disease protection and low antibiotic use. The situation we have in Sweden is largely due to the fact that we have done a fantastic job at home and also been able to ensure that the live animals we take into Sweden for slaughter or breeding or what it might be is free from the infections that Sweden's keepers have managed to combat and make Sweden free from for many years. This concerns not only paratuberculosis but is a more general question of what animal diseases Sweden and other Member States should have the right to protect themselves against when trading live animals. I, Mr President, am a very warm free trade friend, but I think it is goods and services we should trade with and which should flow freely across our borders – not infections. This is therefore a strong contribution at this stage, and I promise the Minister to come back with a question or even an interpellation. Otherwise, I can only inculcate the need for Sweden to keep its flag high and push for ambitious work both within the EU and, as the Minister highlighted, globally. It's necessary and important. Sweden has a great deal of knowledge to contribute, and in this work I think it is important to involve the Swedish farmers so that they have the opportunity to come out and transfer knowledge to their colleagues around Europe. This is a matter of destiny for health care and global health, and for Swedish competitiveness in agriculture, for that matter.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-352	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! I am delighted to hear that success is being achieved in this matter when you talk to the European friends. It's very important, and it's very good. I think you should be gentile and say that you are doing this with good. But I still think about things that might worry me. Some countries – as you mentioned yourself in your reply – are now increasing the use of antibiotics, and that is extremely serious. Although we know and science has shown that thousands, yes hundreds of thousands, of people die from resistant bacteria that are ravaging, antibiotics continue to be used in animal feed. I am the first to say that it is very positive and important that you continue to act. Our Swedish meat also has added value. Our farmers have done a fantastic job that has also involved costs for them. I very much hope that they will get them back as the price of meat has gone up. It's very important. But I did not really get the answer from the Government to my question about Germany. In Germany, there are problems with the ability of veterinarians to resell antibiotics. It is a clear sign that something could be done here. My question to the Minister is whether he intends to talk to his colleague in Germany about this.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-358	Mr President, I would like to I talk to the Germans a lot. The former German minister was on his way here to discuss these issues of antibiotic resistance. They think we are so far ahead, so we have good contact with Germany on these issues. It was mentioned here that we have come a very long way in Sweden, but there is more to do. You're never supposed to beat your chest and say that we're done. Over the last four years, the Swedish commitment has been very great, and there have been many successes when these issues have been discussed, not least at EU and international level. We're a front country. We have knowledge and experience that can help many other countries, and we will continue to contribute. This is one of Sweden's strongest added value when the products are going out on an international market, that we have so low antibiotic use. It'll pay off. Swedish consumers are prepared to pay more. International consumers in other countries are asking for Swedish meat, not because it is cheap, but because we have a high level of food safety and a low level of antibiotic use. That is precisely why Hong Kong, China and Tokyo say: We want to buy your products. This is Swedish added value that we should be proud of. We're gonna keep the blue-yellow flag high. I'm willing to do that, and I'm glad to hear that the Alliance doesn't just see everything in black. This time you saw it in a slightly brighter perspective for this country. Thank you for a good debate!
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-363	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me why the work on the national forestry programme has been delayed. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg has asked me whether, before the end of the term of office, I will present a proposal for a national forestry programme. The focus on forestry policy is solid. Swedish forestry policy is based on the equal goals of production and the environment. A fundamental part of forestry policy is the sectoral responsibility of forestry and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. As well as increasing protection and environmental considerations, increased production of forest raw materials is important in a transition to a bio-based society and in order to phase out fossil energy. The work on the national forestry programme is led by the vision that s kogen, the green gold, will contribute to jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country as well as to the development of a growing bioeconomy. Forests in Sweden have a major role to play in the transition to a circular and bio-based economy and a fossil-free Sweden. In a growing bioeconomy, we need to ensure sustainable yield of forest raw materials that also ensure biodiversity and social values. Forestry plays a major role in achieving environmental quality and generational goals within the environmental objectives system and Agenda 2030. The Government believes that more natural forests should be protected and that environmental considerations should increase in the used forest. It takes a lot of time and patience to balance all interests and goals in the work on a national forest programme. It is important that the Government presents a forest programme that is balanced, balanced and in support of the vision of the forest programme. I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise that the forestry programme consists of several elements, both the dialogue process and the strategy and the action plan. The dialogue process itself has genes for many good ideas and networks. The government and everyone else involved manage the work and we see activities at regional level that go in the spirit of vision. The Government's ambition during its term of office is to present a strategy for a national forest programme based on the basis of the forest programme's dialogue process and to draw up an action plan for implementation.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-367	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is always fun and important to get to stand here and discuss the green gold. That is what the forest is for Sweden. The forest has meant a great deal to the construction of our prosperity and to our country. The forest also means a lot to the construction of our country forward. Not only is history related, but the forest industry is so much of a future. It is from the forest that we get the raw materials that we so badly need to cope with the transition to a bio-based society. Sweden has set the world's most ambitious climate targets, targets that I was involved in negotiating in the parliamentary environmental policy preparation. We in the preparation also said very clearly that the forest makes the best use of the climate by using it. It is when we can substitute energy-intensive materials, fossil raw materials, fossil energy that the forest makes the best use of the climate. This government's policy has created increased uncertainty among many forest owners. We see an increasing number of upset articles and an increasing number of almost desperate appeals from the forestry industry for the government to resolve a number of issues that are central to forestry. Therefore, it was good and important that a majority in the Swedish Parliament could only last week target four sharp announcements to the government to review the Species Protection Regulation, to create a good application of the key biotop inventory, to create a good incentive structure for sustainable forestry and to review the compensation models when infringing ownership and use rights. This government has not listened to Sweden's forest owners at all and acted. The Minister said in his reply that forestry policy is solid. Perhaps the big problem with this government is what the government has not done. The government has not reviewed the Species Protection Regulation, has not given clear guidelines to the authorities on the key biotop inventory and has not listened to the criticism and views of forest owners. In my interpellation, I write that the national forestry programme plays a more important role than ever. Since the uncertainty is so great, I think it is important to take a concerted approach to forestry policy and clearly state that the forest can give Sweden more. Forests can be an important base for creating more jobs and increased economic growth, and this is possible within the framework of sustainable management. The Minister said in his reply that environmental considerations in forestry should increase, that is the government's position. But the uncertainty created by government policy actually leads to the opposite. Many forest owners, for fear of having their land classified as a key biotope or to have restrictions due to the application of the Species Protection Regulation, choose to avoid creating high natural values. Thus, less consideration is given to the use. The government's policy leads in the opposite direction. I would really like to call on the government to come forward with the national forestry programme, which will hopefully be the overall approach. But I realize and understand that there are obviously major problems within the government to get along. I can't interpret it any other way. Mr President, I would like to Maybe my question was wrong. Perhaps I should not have asked what the reasons are for the government not to present the national forestry programme. Rather, perhaps I should have asked: Who is the reason?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Hultberg, for raising this important issue! The national forestry programme has been a major issue for the government. Of course, many wonder where it all went. Last year we had Forest Day here in Parliament, something I myself arranged together with the Forest Association. We invited groups who told us how they intended to do it, and they felt that it was a big step. Getting this right also created faith in the future. Therefore, many now wonder where this has gone. The Minister is now saying that it will come during the term of office, so we look forward to it perhaps coming next month. In any case, we are very curious about what it will mean. As Mr Hultberg points out, many are concerned. The Minister must also have experienced this during his travels around Sweden. Many are concerned. In our country there are about 330 000 forest owners. In this House there are some parties talking about the great forest owner, as if only a few own all the forest. That is certainly not the case. There are many rather small forest owners. The cut is about 45 hectares of forest. Many therefore have an interest in this issue, and many are also concerned about developments such as forest inventory. It's important now that the minister brings this out, which he was in on. Is this gonna come before the summer? What's the schedule?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-381	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say this: we have not come up with any new law, new rules of the game or new regulations. The law and rules of the game were created by the former government, the alliance government, in 2010. This is what is now being tested if they are holding the judicial system. I can't go into the legal system and I'm not going to judge this at all. But I promise you one thing, and I have said this publicly before: if it should turn out that the laws and regulations that exist and which the Alliance put in place come into conflict with property rights, I am the first to review that legislation. Ownership is nothing but central to the government. As in many other questions, you paint a dark picture. Even around the green gold you paint a dark picture. There is a huge activity in Swedish forests. There is an enormous investment activity in the Swedish forest industry. It's historic. The picture is not just dark. But somehow the Alliance wants to black out in area by area. I don't know if it's because it's an election year. One should obviously speak ill of Sweden. I myself want to be an ambassador for Sweden and for Swedish forestry and forestry. I do not want to be a man of darkness; I want to be a man of light. I believe in Swedish forests and the Swedish forest industry. We need a national forest programme. It was just in its infancy when we took office. The previous government had not done much, barely reach the onting. But I promise you that we have had an enormous amount of activity around the national forest programme. There have been programme councils, working groups and countless sub-groups as well as dialogues around the country, both regionally and nationally. My ambition is to develop a national forestry programme before the end of this term of office. But it's supposed to be a good forest program. The issue is complex, and there are many parts. I'm going to do everything I can to get this out. I will also make sure that legislation that does not meet the standards of ownership is amended. As I said, others have put it in place.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-387	Madam President, I would like The Minister thought in his speech just before we took a break that I and my colleague Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats painted a dark picture of the situation in the Swedish forest. However, I began my first post by pointing to the amazing potential and significance of forests, both historically for our country and beyond, and the enormous potential of forests to contribute to new jobs, to increased growth and to shift our society from a fossil-dependent economy to a bio-based economy. However, it is true, Madam President, that we have a paradoxical picture. What the Minister said about investing a lot in the Swedish forest industry is true. We now see a fantastic investment wave rolling out over Sweden within the Swedish forest industry. Investments are made in Grums and at the sawmills and mills in both northern and southern Sweden. It's really positive. At the same time, many forest owners feel a great deal of anxiety and uncertainty. It is a lot about how legislation is applied, but it is also about, for example, key biotop inventories. It has nothing to do with the legislative changes made by the Alliance, but it is about the applications of the authorities, which in some sense the government is ultimately responsible for through its governance of what the authorities should have to do, Madam President. This government has not addressed the key biotopes problem. On the contrary, it has been made worse in some sense by allocating more money to make inventories but not to remedy the basic problem: that the inventory method is not to the fullest. Now the Minister will say that a break has been made and work has begun to update the method. But that only applies to north-west Sweden, not to the overall method. It is also not the case that stakeholders have been allowed to have enough of their say in this work, but there is a great deal left for the government to do. It was therefore welcome that the Alliance was able to enforce these four announcements last week. Madam President, I would like The minister said he wanted to be a man of light. That's a beautiful thing to say. And if he wants to be a man of light, Madam President, I think he should remove the uncertainties and concerns that exist in Swedish forestry. This is, for example, about the species protection regulation. In 2016, the Minister's two Directors-General from the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency called on the Government to carry out a review, but nothing has yet been done. It is said that it prepares the question in the Government Office. This preparation has taken a long time and has still not reached its goal. The same is true of the national forestry programme. The question has been addressed. They say that they work with it and that there are processes going on. But the result, Madam President, is what we are waiting for so frustrated. In his reply, the Minister urges us to be patient. But surely it is now that patience is beginning to fail, both in this Chamber and among Sweden's forest owners. The forest owners' associations have sent an open letter to the Swedish Prime Minister. There was also an extremely sharp debate in today's industry last week. I find it remarkable, to say the least, that the government and the minister responsible do not take the concerns more seriously and remedy the major concerns that exist in the application of the key biotop inventory and the species protection regulation. Not least, it is important that this national forestry programme, which we agree on, is needed and which would help to capture the fantastic potential of the forest in a better way.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-393	Madam President, I would like Like Mr Hultberg, we had the impression that we should have spoken in dark pictures and painted with black text all over it. That is not true, because if there is something we are really trying to paint, it is a picture of how amazing the forest is and what the resources are. At the same time, however, I must say that I am not deaf and blind; I hear what is being said and what is being talked about among thousands of forest owners, namely that one is concerned about what is happening now. A big question, for example, is what authorities do. Are you supposed to be able to take forest without paying for it? A lot of people wonder that. The right of ownership was raised by the Minister in a speech. How important is it? That would be interesting to hear. It is important that the Minister here today says that there is a new national forestry programme. But it is also very important that it comes during the term of office. Then the only question is when does he think it will come? The commitment to this has been great. I referred to last year's Forest Day, which I had here in Parliament together with the Forest Association. It was noticed then that many thought: Finally – now it becomes something that is important for our country and for all forest owners! Finally, a question that many people ask is how to secure the supply of wood. This is a major concern now according to the forest industry, which is at high speed. I know that the Minister is also facing this. How will that asset be secured? Should you take out timber in the future or should you not?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-396	Madam President, I would like My ambition is to present a national forestry programme before this term of office is over. Sometimes things take a long time. In democracies in particular, processes are needed. A long process was needed in relation to the food strategy. I heard countless bourgeois Members say it several times. But it finally came. It turned out very good, and you put it together. We need a national forest programme. I agree with Mr Hultberg and Mr Magnus on these matters. We need it, not least because of the importance of the forest to this country. At the beginning of the 20th century, Sweden was one of Europe's poorest countries. We went to be one of the richest countries, partly because we could make good use of the forest. The forest industry has been involved in building welfare – built schools, built education, built care for the elderly and built childcare facilities. It has contributed and must continue to contribute. We have huge exports, 125 billion a year. A total of around 200 000 people are employed with the side effects that exist. Forests are a huge resource for turning into a bio-based economy. It is a huge resource for jobs and social values. We have also nearly doubled our society's forest supply in 100 years from 1.7 billion cubic metres to 3.4 billion cubic metres. So we have sustainable forestry, I would say. There are those who say we don't, but I usually say we do. Which country has more sustainable forestry than Sweden? I haven't heard that yet. Then things can always get better. These elements are also included in the forest programme. How do we make it better and more sustainable? We have a vision that talks about sustainability too, which is important. It is also very important that we have a well-balanced forest programme. The key biotop inventory does not protect the forest concerned. However, we can then introduce formal protection on the basis of the inventory, and of course we will. I know – and you know this as Members too – that the Environmental Objectives Committee said that another 150 000 hectares would be protected. The previous alliance government also made that decision to the Riksdag. We have 90 000 hectares left to meet that intermediate objective, which has been set in broad political agreement. We agree that it should be done. This government has set aside money to do it, but I note that there is no money set aside in your draft budgets, Johan Hultberg and Magnus Oscarsson. If you stand by the decision that exists about 150,000 hectares and there are 90 000 hectares left, how do you plan to fix it? Do you intend to just take these hectares without replacing the forest owners, because you do not have money in the budget?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-401	Madam President, I would like It was gratifying that the Minister clearly said that Swedish forestry is sustainable. I do not think it is always described as such when listening to government representatives, so it was a welcome description. I agree with the description; Swedish forestry is largely sustainable and very developed in terms of environmental considerations. Much has happened not least since the current Forest Protection Act came into force in 1994, when we moved from a system of very detailed regulations to a model of freedom under responsibility. I would like to say that Sweden's 330 000 forest owners have really taken that responsibility and carried out a management that has created great natural values. This is when the problem arises – when we have a slippage in the application of the concept of a key biotope and the inventory has led to the forest owners who have managed their forest in such a way that large natural values have been created in practice get usage restrictions. The idea when the key biotopes concept was launched was that it would apply to the real pearls of the forest, but now we see that perhaps 90 percent of the land in some areas is classified as key biotopes. It shows that something has gone wrong, so I appeal to and urge the government to actually make a workshop out of the sharp announcement made by Parliament last week. I think that the government has a far too one-sided focus on soil protection and that it forgets to also look at how we can further boost growth in the Swedish forest and take action for it. The Minister highlighted the positive developments that have taken place historically, but I believe that more can be done. But then the forest owners must trust the state, so the number one is to overcome the worrying clouds that exist and give a clear message that the forest should be used for the sake of climate, welfare and the Swedish economy.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-405	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my previous post, the forest means a huge amount to Sweden – a huge amount. We have sustainable forestry. Of course, we can always continue to improve it, and it is important that we discuss these issues and have an ambitious forest programme that looks at all the values of forests. As far as Hultberg was concerned, namely to increase production, we can look at the latest national forest saxation. That is precisely what we are talking about: the possibility of taking more volumes out of the forest, but we also point out that some efforts can further increase production. I therefore believe that we need to discuss both environmental objectives and production targets. They are equal in forestry policy, and it is freedom under responsibility that is the basis for this. I will conclude there and thank you for a good and yet far-sighted debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-408	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I and the government intend to work for living archipelago fishing, including with regard to the development of seal and cormorant stocks. I am aware that the amount of cormorants locally may be perceived as problematic. Nature in connection with cormorants breeding sites is changing, which can be perceived as negative. I am also aware that seals cause damage because they take fish directly out of fishing nets and destroy fishing gear. There are also indications that seals and cormorants may have a negative effect on coastal fish stocks. The government has made it clear that we want to see viable fishing along the Swedish coast. Through the funds set aside by the government for gear development, several seal-proof gears have also been developed, such as cod cages. In 2018, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management may also use funds for the continued development of selective and gentle tools, in collaboration with the fishing industry and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. Fishermen may continue to receive some compensation for damage caused by seals. In order to reduce the impact of the cormorant damage, the maritime and fisheries programme provides support for investments in equipment intended to protect gears and catches from birds protected by Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The increase in the breeding stock of cormorants in the country as a whole has slowed down, and the stock has decreased slightly in recent years. It is important to follow the development of the cormorant population for long-term sustainable management. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the joints have favourable conservation status. The management of cormorants is regionalised, and if justified, the county administrative boards may decide to hunt for protection. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented a government commission on the conditions for and proposals on how seal hunting should be designed and how seal protection hunting can be made more effective in order to achieve a determined allocation. The government is following the issue closely but currently has no such proposals. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also reported government commissions on how opportunities for hunting for general water can be simplified and on the conditions for hunting in Sweden's economic zone. The cases are under preparation in the Government Office. As the responsible Minister, I do not intend to anticipate this preparation. On 11 December last year, several authorities and organisations participated in a round table discussion on seals, following an invitation from the Ministry of Industry. There was a joint discussion on opportunities and challenges with the viable populations of the seal and how the seal can be managed in a sustainable way. The Government Office is considering how the views that emerged during the conversation can be handled.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-414	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Usually when we debate fisheries in this House, we talk about professional fishing, the common fisheries policy within the EU and the so-called third country agreements. This is good, but it is far too rare for us to debate the fishing that most people have closest to – fishing along the coast and in the archipelago. To paint a very clear picture of this: Most people probably have a memory of having metata perch or thrown after pike, but far fewer have a memory of whiting a trawl. Unfortunately, however, it may be more difficult to create these memories in the future. We see how the stocks of seals and cormorants have increased almost avalanches and are now a dangerous competitor for all those fishing in the archipelago. We see how islands have completely lost the vegetation after large cormorants have taken over them, and seals have carte blanche to eat pike also far inside cut – and even during the spawning period. Just the other week I saw headlines saying that in some places in the country there is talk of completely stopping pike, which should be a strong warning signal. Madam President, I would like Past efforts on spawning routes and pike factories have in many ways become a rather expensive feeding of seal rather than a contribution to a living archipelago, which was the idea from the beginning. We see how fishing guides are forced to take up the boat and move to inland lakes where competition from these predators is not as great. It may be good for the individual fishing guide, but it is bad for the archipelago in general. There will be fewer guest nights when fishing tourism moves away, fewer prepared meals when the number of visitors decreases and actually a decrease in confidence in the future in an important part of our countryside. Madam President, I would like In its reply, the Government mentions that the Government has invested in selective tools, and I think that is very good. It is good that the government has continued the Alliance's efforts to achieve more sustainable fishing rather than to meet the Green Party and propose far-reaching and rather unilateral bans. But I would also like to make it clear that this is not quite enough. The current situation – the current state – is worse than we can assume is a normal level. Where we are now, we must not be the new normal. We need more fish in our waters, more fishermen in our archipelagos and an increased confidence in the future both in the industry and among them as hobby fish. An unexpected thing in the spring bill was the new electric motor premium. I think this premium can be a pretty lovely addition to a front mounted electric motor for those who fish zander. However, looking at how seals and cormorants are allowed to ravage freely, it is clear that more than just whale freckles are needed to overcome the problems. It would therefore be welcome if the government could say something more than what was said in the interpellation response, that is to say that it is following the development of the cormorant population and that it is considering how to proceed with discussion papers and so on. The question is what fisheries policy the government is pushing for us to regain confidence in the archipelago.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-423	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Skalberg Karlsson, for raising this important issue! A few weeks ago I visited fishermen down in Karlskrona. For me this was extremely important and interesting but also frightening. I don't think I understood how hard they've had it – and have it. They told me that in 1953 there were 1,300 fishermen only in Blekinge. The number of people living on their fishing in Blekinge today is 10. This is very worrying, and there are many questions you can ask. Mr Jesper raised an important issue, namely that of seals and cormorants. The fishermen I met in Karlskrona said it's incredibly troubling that seals have been there and destroyed when they come and will whiten their nets. The issue is also relevant given that there is an enormous amount of seal. You talk about thousands of seals, and there are only more of them. The seals also carry parasites that spread to fish that die from the disease. The question I am going to put to the Minister is what concrete steps are being taken to bring down the stock of seals. I come from Östergötland, and there people became fires and flames when there came a seal from Bråviken and into the city. There are a lot of seals – the Minister must have heard that too. The question is, once again: what does the Minister intend to do specifically to bring down the stock of seals? I'd also like to ask the same question about the cormorant, but I'll take it next time.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-430	Madam President, I would like Archipelago fishing is a priority for me and for the government. I share Skalberg Karlsson's concern about the many challenges facing the archipelago fishing and the development of recent years, both in terms of fishing opportunities for fishermen and in terms of opportunities for recreational fishing. This is very much an important rural issue. It is about employment, not only for fishermen, but also in the tourism industry and all its industries, such as the processing industry. This issue is also about the social values that exist. We must not forget that it is not only the seal and cormorant population that contributes to the challenges of archipelago fishing. Not least in the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia, we have partly an environment with hard-fished stocks. Climate change and eutrophication also have a huge impact. Today, there is too large a population of both seals and cormorants, although the cormorant population has started to decline in recent years. There are clear indications that the seal and the cormorant have a negative effect on the coastal fishing stock. There's a protection hunt for this. What is sad is that you do not use the quota for protection hunting that exists. In recent years, the seal quota has been around 1 000, but only half was used. So we must also involve the hunters in this process. Then there is a problem with seals because of the EU's decision that these resources should not be used commercially. This was something that Sweden and Finland opposed during the long process around this. Unfortunately, it did not help, but it was 26 to 2. We cannot do anything about it; we must accept that this is the way it is. As I mentioned, we've had round-table discussions. We have had a great many discussions with researchers, authorities and stakeholder organisations on this. We are now considering what measures to take, and I do not want to anticipate that process.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-437	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is true that the problem of eutrophication and climate change are the factors that have the greatest impact on the Baltic Sea's well-being; I fully agree with that. Nor, however, can it be said that fishing alone affects these stocks so much. The seal and the cormorant are the fishermen who are really big, so to speak. They have increased a lot in recent years, while Swedish fishing from us humans has decreased sharply. I agree that it is problematic that the quota allocated should not be suspended. The reason can be as simple as it is damn hard to hunt seals. Not only does it happen out on the water and the seals don't move very much over the surface – sitting in a bumping boat shooting seals isn't something for any hunter. Of course we will take this with us. In the Government's answer, he said that questions about hunting for public water are being prepared and that this will come about some time later. I find it a little sad that there is a tendency for questions that are being prepared at the Government Office to stick a little bit. Issues that the government finds difficult to agree on are buried in the drawer, perhaps mainly during election years. It's boring, let me tell you. Another debate that we have had in the past concerns the possibility of hunting for disabled people; there is a need to make a small change to the cross-country driving regulation so that hunting can be made more accessible to these people too. I think that it is really just putting such a proposal through, and I think the Minister for Rural Development also agrees with me on that. But I suppose it is the Green Party that is putting an end to the Ministry, and the Social Democrats then choose their government power over many reforms. Madam President, I would like The same is true of fisheries policy. We have not seen much new fisheries policy during this parliamentary term. I can only remember a bill that Parliament has dealt with. It was about formality – that we need to reformulate certain legal texts and change certain words because of an EU directive. It was passed through the House without debate because the committee was unanimous. The problem is that while politics is on its hands, reality changes outside. The seal and cormorant stocks are significant – if you jointly eat 50 million kilos of fish annually, this affects of course. I had hoped that the Minister for Rural Development would react a little stronger to the headline the other week that pike fishing could soon be over in Sörmland and that four out of five pike that are now being fished are in Blekinge. So it is certainly not very well spread across the country. We are rightly talking in this House about cod, for example, in the case of threatened stocks, but we also need to focus our eyes on fishing in the archipelago. There are major challenges for the policy if we want to approach our own environmental goal, called the Sea in balance and the living coast and archipelago. There's more to do. It would be interesting to hear whether the Government is hopeful that this preparation, discussion papers, review or follow-up of various developments will be completed. Will the government present something in the fisheries sector before the end of its term of office, or is the machinery for this matter completely halted?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! I think it's breathing that you've seen the trouble when you talk about the seal. You say it has been troubling and that you have worked in different ways to bring down the number of seals. The problem is that there is no provision, which you are in on, for the seal. And as Mrs Jesper said, it is also difficult to hunt them, so you might have to think about having a seal hunting license to get a spin on it. When I was in Karlskrona, I felt that many people I met there felt opposed. We in this House are politically very concerned about a living archipelago. But a living archipelago is for me a living archipelago even in winter. It is important that there are fishermen not only in summer when there are summer guests, but that people can survive and work in winter as entrepreneurs in the area that they are good at, and that is fishing. Many say that coastal fishing is forgotten. Here I think we can think about how we can do more for these fishermen so that they feel that fishing is important for our country. I'm also thinking about the cormorant. What's the minister thinking here? Is there any suggestion that you can hunt for more cormorants? It is incredibly serious that it destroys so much and eats so much fish. This is also a question I would like to ask the Minister.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-454	Madam President, I would like Again: I share the interpellant's concern about the population of seals and cormorants and how they affect the archipelago fishing. We also seem to agree that the climate and environmental impact that exists is great. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to highlight our extensive investment of SEK 600 million in the 2018 budget proposal for measures against eutrophication, measures to take care of drug residues, clean-up of environmental toxins, including measures relating to leaking wrecks, measures against plastic in the sea and so on. It is very important that we take a holistic approach to the sea and that which very much affects the archipelago fishing. There is also an official grant to restore playgrounds and upbringing places for the archipelago species. For the small-scale professional fishing, which Oscarsson is working on, there are special funds managed by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to build diversification of fishermen's businesses so that they can live on small-scale professional fishing. Unfortunately, I do not have a timetable today. Preparation is in progress, so I hope you will understand that I cannot tell you today where we are going to land, nor about precise timetables.
i-Xeg9Gtwh58XKiSBEsWb3hD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the presentation! I agree that there is much we can do for our near marine environment. We Moderates also have in our budget money for drug purification. Our government set up the Maritime and Water Authority. I think you need to work much more with international collaborations such as Helcom and OSPAR in order to come up with an effective policy. I also think that the government should mention that a new treatment plant has now been established in Kaliningrad with Swedish support, which has reduced the emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus by approximately one whole of Sweden. This is a big gain for the Baltic Sea, although the climate issue of course takes longer and is more difficult. However, it is not possible to get away from the fact that even if you do all these things that lead to a better environment, two large predators need to be addressed. And you can't do nothing, you need to come up with something here. The question is whether it is about how we can meet the seal quota or whether it is about new forms of hunting for public water. I don't know. I'll be honest with you. Madam President, I would like However, I would like to say that it is difficult to take stock of what this government has achieved in the fisheries sector. I'm a little confused if I'm going to be extremely disappointed that the Social Democrats haven't come up with a more effective policy or if I'm going to be extremely satisfied with how much the Social Democrats have managed to block by the Environmental Party's rather strange attitude towards Swedish professional and hobby fishing.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-461	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that the government has chosen a broad approach with the tools available to achieve the sustainable management of our fish and animal species. But you have to work both regionally and locally to improve the living environment of fish in the Baltic Sea. We must also take good care of the environment in the Baltic Sea. It is not just about the hunting of seals and cormorants, which is part of the discussion. I hope to be able to come back during this parliamentary term, but I cannot give a timetable. Thank you for a good debate!
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-465	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me when the government intends to come back with concrete proposals to achieve the proposed objectives of a coherent rural policy and how the government intends to follow up whether or not the targets are met. The proposal for a coherent rural policy submitted by the Government to the Riksdag sets out the direction for a new policy for Sweden's rural areas. The proposal contains a proposal for a horizontal objective of coherent rural policy. The formulation of the objectives is in line with the overall objective proposed by the Parliamentary Committee for Rural Development but with an addition to long-term sustainable development throughout the country. It is important that the objectives of coherent rural policy are properly monitored and evaluated. The Government intends to follow up the objectives of the coherent rural policy, and an in-depth follow-up is intended to be submitted to the Riksdag on a regular basis. In addition, the Government will instruct an appropriate authority, in consultation with other relevant authorities and stakeholders, to develop a system of relevant indicators that can be used to measure the achievement of the objectives on an ongoing basis. The Committee's proposed 11 sub-objectives should serve as a basis for this work. All proposals from the L andrural Committee are dealt with in the proposal, and the government implements in whole or in part about two thirds of the proposals. Many of the proposals of the L andrural Committee are such that it is the government's decision on them. The government has already implemented a number of L andrural Committee proposals. This applies, for example, to the relocation of state jobs, the expansion of local government services and the expansion of municipal learning centres. F clay measures are announced and described in the bill, and the government will continue the work to implement these efforts.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-468	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. The moderates' starting point for rural and agricultural policy is that the whole country's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities should be exploited, and this should be done in a way that contributes to sustainable development economically, socially and environmentally. Our native Swedish industries, such as agriculture, fisheries and livestock production, can make a major contribution to this. Since these original industries are bound to land, soil and water, they are also permanent over time, regardless of which other industries come and go. An important insight in dealing with these issues is also that a crucial point for a functioning rural policy is an offensive agricultural policy. If you want to get jobs in sparsely populated areas, Swedish farmers need to have the best conditions. Madam President, I would like However, it is doubtful whether the Swedish farmers have the best conditions. According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's figures, competitiveness is falling. In terms of meat consumption, the proportion of Swedish beef produced fell from 84% in 1997 to 54% now. For milk, it's about the same story. Sweden is the only country in the Baltic Sea region that imports milk products net. The fact that Swedish milk is also more expensive than 95% of all other milk in the EU is certainly a factor. Madam President, I would like It is therefore a good thing that the government has taken the initiative for a food strategy and a rural bill. But it is not a strong reform agenda and a clear line that is emerging. The food strategy was delayed by more than 12 months, and when it was completed we could really only agree on the objectives of the strategy. Since it was adopted, the government has continued with a rather eco-warming policy. We are opposed to glyphosate, we want quotas for organic farming and so on. Now we are also approaching an electoral movement, and I am convinced that one of the government parties will dust off old proposals on meat tax, GMO resistance and 100% organic demands in the European Union. The question then becomes quite natural. Now that there is a new government target that is not being filled with a policy as clear as that, what is being done not to repeat the same mistakes as with the food strategy? Madam President, I would like My concern is not about the target. The target picture painted in the rural bill is good – so much so that as a moderate I could say that I share this target picture. At the same time, I am deeply concerned that the government is in these long preparations, committees and investigations but does not come up with a clear line on what the goal is and how we are going to get there. The government seems to abdicate a little bit from the question of what the goal means, which may seem a little irresponsible. I therefore wonder: what has actually been done with the mass of texts from the completion of the Committee's work to the presentation of a bill by the Government at Parliament's table? It is still a time in between, and one must have been busy with something.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-478	Madam President, I would like Swedish countryside has been neglected for a long time by various governments of different colours. Hence, anyone approaching this problem and these opportunities should have a large portion of humility. When this government took office, we were clear that the policy for Swedish rural areas had to be changed. We must seize the potential of the whole country. Many of the measures we have launched are concrete policies to reverse this trend. There are many billions of investments, and I will come back to them. First, I will mention the coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas contained in the bill. This proposal is a chapter in reversing the policy for Swedish rural areas. A book has many chapters, and the bill is one. The bill is on two legs. One is the overall goal that we want to tie with the Riksdag so that future governments will not again be able to start sloppy with the Swedish countryside. The second is funding, the government's workshop to create real politics and change. Here we have committed SEK 1.5 billion for 2019 and 2020, and thereafter SEK 400 million per year. The first area is employment and entrepreneurship. There's a lot of focus on that. The largest item is about business and entrepreneurship, and we allocate 430 million annually. It is about creating better conditions for digitalisation and technological development in rural businesses, and it is about production equipment for rural businesses. This is about better financing for rural businesses. We provide money to Almi and the Norrland Fund so that they can take greater risks in lending. Commercial banks are not always prepared to take risks in Swedish rural areas. The second area is innovation and knowledge. Here we allocate SEK 49 million annually, among other things to strengthen Vinnova's incubator program for rural companies. We are looking at the whole issue of access to the right workforce. Among other things, we should look at the possible depreciation of student loans, which was a proposal in the Rural Committee's report. The third area is education. Here we set aside SEK 44 million per year. This includes support for remote education to cope with village schools and improve the quality of teaching in these schools. It's about developed digital pedagogy. The fourth area is housing and transport. It gets SEK 105 million a year. These include extra funds for individual roads, to be able to replace a bridge over a larger watercourse or to fix a ferry position. There are major investments that can be helped. We are extending the transport premium to the food sector as well. The fifth area is rural culture. It gets 22 million a year so that we get culture also to the most sparse areas. The sixth area is Norrlandstjänst, which receives 100 million. Nothing has been done in this area since 1995. It is an investment in food production in the upper parts of the country. I will come back to other chapters of my next speech.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-491	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development says that you should be humble and also think about what previous governments have done. However, I am convinced that the previous government has been nailed and reviewed, not least by Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. There are things that I too think that the government should have done more of. For example, I think that the Competitiveness Investigation should have looked more at the economy, which, unfortunately, was largely neglected. However, we are here to talk about what this government is doing, and that is quite reasonable when this term of office is almost over. Madam President, I would like There is still a rather severe impoverishment of the countryside. To some extent, and you can be honest with that, it can be explained by stronger and faster urbanisation, and I doubt whether politics can and should try to counter that power. However, that is no excuse for the state to withdraw and leave the countryside to its fate. Sweden is bigger than Stockholm, and if the whole country is to live, the city and country need a large exchange of each other. On Gotland, where I live even if I do not have that dialect, it is very clear which places the state has prioritised away. We have a rather large turn-off of the countryside because the Swedish Transport Administration does not assume its road maintenance responsibilities. The government's answer seems to be that it's all right. The government cuts down on road maintenance by SEK 500 million per year, and it is clear that such matters matter. In addition to this, air tax is introduced so that it will be more expensive to get to the rest of Sweden. The government is moving forward with increased petrol tax so that it will be more expensive to get to and from work. They put forward proposals to ban diesel cars in cities, which lowers the value of the second largest investment of many families, after the home. In addition, increased taxes on the transportation of the milk truck, increased taxes on labour and resistance to conventionally grown food – all of these things are recorded. I would say that the government appears to be using the countryside as an ATM. Madam President, I would like It's easy to make strategies, set goals and write big headlines. We see this not least in budgetary times. It is more difficult to renew your policy when you have implemented what you really wanted to get through, to find agreements with other parties and to push through policies that may be unpopular in the short run but are important in the long run. This is where the government seems to fall a little into the trap. It's good with the target, but it's very fluffy. The other text of the bill is mostly a discussion of various proposals and possible future investigations. My spontaneous feeling is that this is not really a bill but a letter that has been prepared and then named a bill because you want to fulfill an election promise that they gave in 2014. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to know what to write in the financial statements of the Red-Green Government. The major projects – the Food Strategy and the Rural Bill – are loose frameworks around policy areas that need political action. It is the same thing here as with fishing: I do not know whether I should be disappointed at how little the Social Democrats have done for the countryside in concrete terms or whether I am going to be very happy that the Social Democrats have at least blocked the even worse policy that the Green Party has wanted to go forward with.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-501	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Skalberg Karlsson, who has written the interpellation on this important matter and subject! I think that the Minister for Rural Development is addressing good things in his intention. One thing he mentioned that the government wants to invest in is broadband. It sounds good when you bet money, but if there is something that is hollow, it is when you are out among people in the countryside and they say: Yesterday I could call, but today I can't anymore because Telia has cut the copper wire. This isn't working anymore. I met a lady over 90 years old. She has a stone that she goes up and stands on and talks. That's what it looks like in the countryside. Many feel that it is only empty talk from Stockholm when this company, which the state is also a partner in, comes. What I was going to ask is: Can we not in this context, instead of just continuing to talk about spending on broadband, looking at what exists today and what actually works? If you can't wait until there's an ugly lgott alternative before you do as many people feel you've done: Well, now they cut it too. The signal from Stockholm is: Stop living in the countryside, because now they cut the thread there, both when it comes to calling and getting out via broadband! I think this is an important issue that we need to consider. I was going to hear what the Minister's answer to this is.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-506	Madam President, I would like I presented a broad palette of concrete measures in the rural bill. It is 1.5 billion in the first two years, with a lot of focus on jobs and entrepreneurship. And then the Moderates say it's just words and nothing else. Are the Committee's entire proposals to be disappointed now? That was chapter one. Chapter 2 deals with those municipalities that face particular challenges. That's where we go in with 2.6 billion. They are municipalities with low employment, high unemployment, low education levels and low voting turnout. We allocate 75 million to them in 2018, 350 million in 2019 and 300 million thereafter. Some thirty rural municipalities in Sweden have this problem. Chapter 3 deals with rural shops, which during the previous government decreased from 2,900 stores to 1,200. We entered 2016 with support for these rural shops. We now double the support for two consecutive years to SEK 75 million annually. We also reduce the distance for stores to be able to get support. It is about 190 stores that are receiving support today, but with the new, 300 stores will receive support. We are more than doubling investment aid so that they can replace refrigerators and freezers. It is very important for Swedish rural areas, so that you can get food, fuel, pharmacy goods extradited and parcel service. We've stopped shop death. Is it just blubber, too, the Moderates? Is it not concrete policy? Chapter 4 concerns the initiative The whole of Sweden, 1.2 billion in 2018, the current budget. It is about service and good living conditions throughout the country. It's about green jobs, and it's very rural-oriented. It is about entrepreneurship and education throughout the country. It is about infrastructure and better roads. It's about 100 million more annually, in addition to regular funding, to fix potholes. I hope you know what potholes are-- the rural people know that. It is also about stimulating rural nature tourism and about more money for Visit Sweden so that they can sell and propagate for this. We reduce VAT for nature guides from 25% to 6%. This was done on 1 January. The Food Strategy is a rural job project. We have 1 billion in active measures now – 40 different measures to implement the food strategy. Is that just talk, too? You had to wait for it. I was in this House as a Member once upon a time, and we re-used it several times. There was never anything from the alliance government, but it was rejected. You say it took us 12 months too long. It's black paint. I thought you might be able to give a confession sometimes, too. Broadband billions are a massive investment in broadband in Swedish rural areas: 5.5 billion or 5 500 million. Not a crown goes to the cities, it's all about the countryside. We have adopted a completely new strategy for rural areas. The previous government said that 90% of businesses and households should have broadband, but we say that 100% should have it by 2025. The 95% sub-target is to be achieved by 2020. We're raising the SOT level so Telia can't cut any more copper wires so easily. When it comes to state presence, we have started with relocations from Stockholm into the country. So far, we've had 2,000 jobs, but we're not done. I have now presented you with eight chapters. There's a ninth chapter coming up in a minute.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-515	Madam President, I would like It will be a bit fun when you are accused of betraying the committee when the government itself cut off the third that they did not think was as fun to go forward with. We can look at how much money or what size you're talking about. It beats its chest for lowering VAT on nature guides, but it is a government that has 100 billion in increased expenditure and 60 billion in increased taxes, the majority of which are hitting jobs and growth. Perhaps the question is not how many million dollars you can make in different places to get headlines, but perhaps the question is what the countryside gets in the last row, when you have used it as an ATM and then give back with the other hand. We see how competitiveness falls, how the extinguishing continues and how the dairy farmers become fewer. I'd say it's doubtful if there's a plus in the last row. Regarding government agencies and the presence of the state, I think it is a good tool that can be used from here to move out state jobs, not least when large industries are closing down, but it is on the margins. If we really want to get rid of this Stockholm fixation, I think we will take the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and move it to Sveg, or why not to Haparanda. Then there would be a real difference.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-520	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It will be easy to black out rhetoric. But that's not what we're trying to do, at least not me. I'm just trying to tell you what I'm experiencing when I meet people in the countryside. I can't say much else. I think it's going to be a little skewed, because the minister's taking up so much. That sounds great, and there are many suggestions that are good. At the same time, we hear the desire to introduce a kilometre tax. The fuel tax has been increased. No person living in rural areas can say that it has fallen, but it has increased. That's what every human being notices. It makes a huge amount of money for the people living in rural areas. It gets a little weird, and the picture gets a little distorted. The Swedish Transport Administration then says that it should spend 2 000 km of what the Swedish Transport Administration has previously done on rural people. I also mentioned earlier that Telia cuts the broadband that works. This sounds good, and it is certainly a good spirit in this, but there are two different parts in this. When you live in the countryside you feel that there is talk about that it is so positive. But we live in a reality, and today I can't talk on the phone there anymore. Somewhere there, I think that the Minister for Rural Development must tell him how he thinks in view of what I am referring to and in view of what he has said.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-525	Madam President, I would like We have not introduced any mileage tax. However, we have improved the diesel tax reduction to Sweden's farmers, and they are very happy about it. They haven't been as positive in ten years as they are today, according to the LRF's own barometer. We've initiated an investigation into the travel allowance, Cap. 9. There was a proposal from the Rural Committee to that effect. The ink barely had time to dry before the Stockholm fashions were against it. But we are looking at a distance-based travel deduction system that would be better for Sweden's countryside. 39 municipalities in assisted area A receive annual support of 70 million over three years to improve business development – this is to improve the business environment in vulnerable municipalities. We set up an investigation as soon as the committee report was submitted to look at the financing of housing in rural areas. It is a problem with funding to build housing in Swedish rural areas. This proposal is being referred, and we will have to come back with concrete measures on it. The same applies to what I mentioned in the bill that we are going in with money to the Almi and the Norrland Fund to enable them to take greater risks in order to be able to borrow from small and medium-sized enterprises. But apparently you're against it, too. Everything's just blubber. So is the rhetoric of the election year of the bourgeois parties. Madam President, I would like This is an historic investment in Swedish rural areas. It is a multi-billion-dollar investment in Swedish rural areas that no government has ever before presented. But we're not done. Closing the gap between city and country will take several terms of office. You won't be able to do that in a period of time. We promise we'll continue if we get the trust. The direction of this government is clear: we will close the gap between city and country. Thank you for a good debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-532	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that Sweden, through the acquisition of new medium-range anti-aircraft, will achieve its own and independent capability to combat ballistic missiles. On 7 November last year, the Government authorized the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration to send a request and open negotiations for the Patriot air defence system. The Patriot system would provide Sweden with an independent capability to combat tactical ballistic missiles in operational terms. The likelihood of a successful fight against such weapons systems increases with early warning and good sensor information. Early warning may originate from national sources or others.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-534	Madam President, I would like It is, in fact, too beautiful an evening to discuss ballistic missiles, because it is very brutal weapons that we are discussing at the time. They're fired with massive gunfire. They get up into the atmosphere, into space, and gradually let their parts go and fall down to the earth at a terrible speed. They travel at the end of their orbit by nearly seven kilometers per second. The US and NATO have a missile defence in Europe. It has been built up for a long time with considerable financial effort. In addition to land facilities in Poland and Romania, it consists of a large number of so-called Aegis ships, which are capable of giving the very early warning that the Minister of Defence is talking about. We have been discussing the possibility of a defence against ballistic missiles for some years, and several investigations have looked at this. Air Defence Investigation 2040 writes on p. 308: A defense against conventional ballistic missiles and advanced cruise missiles can only be done through cooperation with other nations. This is based both on cost reasons and on the need to group sensors and effects over large areas. The investigation continues a little later on with the following: Sweden will need to interact with other states to create protection against conventional ballistic missiles. Active protection can only be achieved through international cooperation, for example in order to detect and combat incoming robots. In the 2013 perspective study, the Swedish Armed Forces comments on p. 54: For cost reasons, it is not realistic for a single smaller state to develop protection against ballistic missiles on its own. Therefore, Sweden should develop this ability together with others. Madam President, I would like It is for these reasons that I have asked the question of an independent Swedish ability to combat ballistic missiles. The Secretary of Defense is quite right that the earlier warning you can get, the greater the likelihood that you will also encounter incoming missiles. But the question is: are their own national sensors enough to achieve the accuracy that we can accept – yes or no? That question, Madam President, should be answered by the ultimately responsible for military defence in Sweden. If the answer to the question is no, I would like to make the following call to the government, namely that before the purchase of Patriot is finally made, we should ensure that we have guarantees written down in agreements that give us access to the sensors that we need in order to operate effectively with Patriot. Finally, the Minister of Defence says that early warning may come from national sources or others. I have to ask why the Minister for Defence does not say exactly that NATO is the one he is talking about, because only NATO and NATO countries can give us this help and make our weapons work effectively. Tell this to the Swedish people. We build ourselves into NATO, but we have a government that does not want influence there.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-543	Madam President, I would like As far as the Patriot system is concerned, there are three options, if we are now to discuss it on a more general level. First, you have access to your own radar function. It may well be considered a better option than the current system Hawk Robot 97 has. Then you can connect it to the national level and the sensor chain we have. It further strengthens the situation. Data from other neighbouring countries can be used as a third option. This has further strengthened the system. It is really the three steps, if we are going to discuss it in general, that it can be about. We have military cooperation at bilateral and multilateral level and also within the NATO partnership. It's about a lot of things. It is about education, training, development of skills, exchange of information and research. It spans a wide range of military issues. This also applies to air defence and air combat. It may nevertheless be important to recall that a qualified medium-range anti-aircraft system cannot achieve full effect in isolation. It needs to be part of a system together with short-range anti-aircraft, combat aircraft and associated sensors that provide a common coherent air defence capability. International collaborations on sensor information, among other things, strengthen this, of course. Nor can we see Sweden isolated in a possible conflict situation. We are now strengthening our national defence. At the same time, we develop and deepen our international collaborations. There is no contradiction in that. We develop our interoperability and ability to work together with others. How to design a system in concrete and detailed terms in terms of medium-range anti-aircraft and defence based on ballistic capabilities, I am not going to further speculate on or go into deeper detail today. If so, it is a future process. Such issues will probably also be covered, at least in part, by confidentiality. The three options available are first the own radar and then the national level. There is also the possibility, as a third option, of exchanging data on the situation in the neighbourhood with other countries. That, of course, makes the systems stronger. That's the situation we've got. That is also what we are now facing looking at in the process that will be going on for some time to come.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-551	Madam President, I would like If we imagine shooting a ballistic missile from, for example, the other side of the Baltic Sea, it is from the moment the missile leaves the ground until it strikes in about five to seven minutes. That's an extremely short warning. It's the same for everyone, and it's the same whether you cooperate or not. I get a little bothered when I hear the Secretary of Defense arguing: Eventually we'll get to grips with it, and we'll have to negotiate what cooperation should look like. It is my view that this must happen before Sweden acquires Patriot firing units. Once we have bought, of course, the incentives from other countries to come to our aid, not least the United States, are considerably less. Therefore, I believe that it is in Sweden's interest that it be insured and agreed before we make the acquisition. Then the Secretary of Defense won't answer my question. Are only national sensors enough to successfully combat ballistic missiles? The Armed Forces claim otherwise. The government-appointed Air Defense investigation claims otherwise. Peter Hultqvist's own party colleagues have not reserved for that investigation. It is important that this question be answered. Is national sources sufficient alone, or is more necessary for an acceptable level of accuracy? The Secretary of Defense also mentions the fixed sensor chain. This prompts me to ask the question: Is the fixed sensor chain in Sweden dimensioned in order to be able to manage target data to combat ballistic missiles? Madam President, I would like It is my assessment that there is only one organisation and countries in that organisation that can assist Sweden with early warning and with correct target data. But I notice that the Minister of Detention avoids repeatedly telling you who this organization is. It is one thing that we build ourselves into an addiction to a defence alliance like NATO. I don't mind. But I think that with such dependence it must also follow a Swedish membership that gives us an influence over this organisation. I can only say that the current government is not even prepared to tell the Swedish people how our dependence is increasing and what it looks like.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-557	Madam President, I would like I've said in my first post – and I don't know how many times I'm going to have to repeat it – that it's first my own radar capability. Then that is what we can achieve at the national level. If you then cooperate with other countries in the immediate region, you will have an even greater capacity in the context. That's what it looks like. We will have to come back to the exact steps to be taken in this. Of course, we are interested in having as good a warning as possible. In my answer, I have explained what it looks like. Early warning may originate from national sources or others. That's pretty much what it looks like. I will not now go in and speculate and have a debate in detail on how it could be designed and exactly what agreements and other things are necessary. I think I'll be approaching classified information. Moreover, there is no reason to precede any developments. In that case, we will have to come back to that in another context. I do not know whether it is particularly the Riksdag that is suitable for conducting such debates. Mr Allan and I agree that it is necessary and desirable to have as long an early warning period as possible. It is only to be noted that the current Hawk Robot 97 system is not adequate to meet the modern environment we are living in today when it comes to threats of ballistic missiles and modern cruise missiles. We must come to a new mid-range air defence in this context. Sweden cooperates in many areas with other countries and other organisations. We're doing it from an alliance-free position. It's going perfectly well. I also understand that our position is respected in these contexts. On the other hand, there are consequences of changing the doctrine of security policy. That is something that I think Allan Widman and many times underestimates. Of course it will have an impact on the security policy situation in our neighbourhood. The strategy we have now chosen to deepen cooperation beyond peace-time with Finland, to work bilaterally and multilaterally with other countries and also to participate actively in NATO's partnership is what, based on our geographical position, contributes to the best stability in our neighbourhood. I and Allan disagree, and neither will we. However, our position does not prevent us from cooperating with other countries. It is something that we have deepened quite properly in the three years that we have now been in government.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-564	Madam President, I would like It's not just three years. It is almost four years that the Red Green Government has been responsible for defence and security policy. Sometimes I get questions from journalists about what Sweden can do more to deepen its relationship with NATO. I shall then be responsible for the answer, Madam President. All the possibilities that exist for a non-member, a partner, we have now claimed. We have the host country agreement. We're in the NRF. We participate in IF, are gold-plated partners and so on. The problem is that the security policy declared by the current government is not consistent with what the government is doing. It brings us ever closer to NATO but without any claim to influence. The only possibility is to become a member of the Alliance, Madam President. The Secretary of Defense now has one post left. I would like to say, Madam President, that none of the things I mention here – the quotations I make from public investigations – are in any way covered by secrecy. I think the Minister for Defence has quite a lot of space if he wants to hear my request for information. The last question I ask is: does the Minister of Defence share my view that it is probably easier for Sweden to make sure to get sensor information from NATO before we buy Patriotrobots than afterwards? Or should we buy them and hope for the best?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-568	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that what has guided the Government's decision to proceed in the medium-range anti-aircraft process is the analysis of operational capability requirements made by the Swedish Armed Forces. It has highlighted the importance of providing ballistic capability. The focus on the negotiations that we are now conducting is that deliveries should start in 2020 and that the entire system should be delivered by 2025. That is the very direction. When it comes to the whole and all components of Patriot and that investment and how we should handle sensor data, that's what I don't really want to happen. I am prepared to take that discussion when we are done with the whole of a deal like this. I think that it is too far now if I start to go into details, and especially speculate on various details, in this context. But I have already said at the outset that the first line is its own radar capability. The second is the national level, and the third is cooperation on the use of data with countries in the neighbourhood. All three levels are quite possible. The third level is also an alternative, and I have made that clear. How these things should then be organized, how we put it up and how we solve it I want to come back to in a later context, when we can tell about the system as a whole. I would also like to emphasise that it is not as simple as simply saying that all cards should be placed on the table. There is also a confidentiality dimension in these contexts.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-572	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked how I and the government will ensure that the state eco-label Swan is based on solid foundation and current research and takes into account the dominant opinion of independent research organisations on genetically modified plants. I would like to start by making it clear that the Swan is a voluntary eco-label. The aim is to make it easier for consumers to make an active choice based on the characteristics of a product that complies with your regulatory requirements. The labelling also enables producers to compete with environmentally friendly products, thus driving product development that takes account of the environment. D e requirements are based on knowledge of the product's environmental impact throughout the life cycle. In addition to environmental benefits, guidance when selecting products is that there is a need for a label that guides consumers and purchasers. As I pointed out in my previous answer to the written question from Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, the Swan will follow the guidelines laid down by the Nordic Ministerådet. These states, among other things, that Svanen will conduct a Sami development and revision of criteria with high environmental, climate and quality requirements as well as objective control. Decisions on product groups and criteria are taken by the Nordiska Eco-labelling Board. These decisions in turn follow the international standard I so 14024 on type 1 marking. The decisions are preceded by a dialogue in each country with representatives from authorities, environmental and consumer organisations and industry, as well as an extensive consultation round. Voluntary labelling, such as the Swan, depends entirely on the confidence and knowledge of market players – producers and consumers – in labelling. As many as 96 per cent of the Swedish population recognize the swan mark. An open dialogue with research in relevant disciplines is important for a high level of consumer confidence. Eco-labelling Sweden AB has the task of managing Svanen for Sweden. The company's assignments are regulated in a owner's instructions, which, among other things, means that the operations must be conducted in an efficient, efficient and impartial manner. According to the State's ownership policy for companies with state ownership, the board of directors of the company must ensure that the business enjoys public confidence. The Board is responsible for the company's organisation and day-to-day operations. The State's role as owner of the company does not include having views on individual criteria. Criterion decisions are made in accordance with the Nordic guidelines and without any political interference, which is fundamental to the credibility of labelling.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-579	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Information is indeed a key element in enabling consumers and businesses to make informed and, above all, conscious choices. Environmental and quality labels, of course, play an enormous role. No one has time to go through all the ingredients or ingredients of every product you buy or consume. And it's not just that you don't have time. Nor does it have knowledge of what each ingredient is or how it affects people and the environment. How many people really know what riboflavin or phenylalanine is? No, you shouldn't have to be a chemist to be able to choose safe products. It is therefore a good thing that there are different markings, such as CE marking, Isomarking, Requirements and Swan. Madam President, I would like The reason I have called for this debate is that there are indications that the eco-label Swan, where the state has a large presence, may not all be based on the best available research. More specifically, it is a question of not allowing the labelling of products developed with the help of advanced plant breeding, on the grounds that there is no consensus in the scientific community on advanced plant breeding. This is certainly true, but I object somewhat to the fact that labelling cannot be carried out when a clear majority of independent research organisations say that advanced plant breeding is not as dangerous as the minority suggests. If you're going to have that approach, it makes a lot of other things impossible. We can look at the climate challenge, which both the Minister and I are committed to, and the threat it poses. We know there are two sides. There is one side that says that global warming is real and a problem that we need to take seriously. And there are those who say that global warming is mostly a weather phenomenon and that we do not really need to change the economy and society. But, Madam President, while saying that there are two sides to a coin, you need to be honest about how big those sides are. As far as the climate challenge is concerned, the ratio of size is 99 to 1. Of course, climate policy should lean against the strongly dominant view rather than against the deviant one. The same applies to plant breeding, although there is a difference between politics and science. Madam President, I would like Doesn't the government and the government see that there are problems? We can take the government's ownership policy as an example. There are demands for activities to enjoy public confidence, but it will be difficult if Svanen is deaf to the fact that a majority of research organisations advocate advanced plant breeding. I do not mean in any way that ministerial rule should regulate precisely which individual criteria should or should not apply. It would open up to a great deal of discretion, and that's what I want to get away from. However, when it is discovered that safe products are being held back, I think it is reasonable to raise the issue in this House as a elected representative, because it is possible to do so. The main question before you can go into details and the way forward is therefore: does the government not see in any way that there are problems with the eco-label Swan, in which we have a large state presence, and its approach to advanced plant breeding? It is, of course, a label that is largely backed by the state.
i-3vAUGaA4zVky5bgzSNFbm3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for the question! I welcome the fact that we both clearly see the importance and the need for good eco-labelling. The swan is a well-established and well-known label and is of great benefit to all of us environmentally conscious consumers every day. I think there are many of us who would not be able to cope with everyday life so easily if we did not have the eco-label to go on when we choose products. It is important for us to have confidence in labelling that there is no political interference in either direction, regardless of what one's ideological view is on various issues, but that these are criteria developed by the experts appointed by the governments of the Nordic countries to do so. It is also important to have a transparent process in which, while drawing up criteria, the proposals are sent out for consultation, take in views, have a debate and discussion and meet researchers and other interest groups in order simply to identify relevant and well-weighted demands. Obviously, Swan has also succeeded in the task in that the label has a very high level of confidence in Swedish consumers. 96% of Swedish consumers know about Swan, and it is also well known that there is great confidence in Swan as an eco-label. You simply feel confident that the swan label helps you to choose the best environmental products. It is clear, then, that it is also important to have a certain protection zone and to include such things as uncertainties and use the precautionary principle when relevant. In this case, I think that the Swan, when you have developed its criteria and have had discussions in the Nordic countries and concluded that this is a factor to be taken into account, has also taken into account that there is some uncertainty in the research community as well. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson tries to compare with the climate issue. I think perhaps that illustration is not very relevant. Several international conferences and seminars, as well as research networks, have evaluated the climate issue from all angles and have come to the conclusion with great certainty that it is human beings who are responsible for climate change. In the case of GMOs, there is still some uncertainty. For example, when SVT asks researchers if GMOs have greater or less environmental risks than other crops, 24% say it is a greater risk, and 40% say that more research is needed to answer that question. It does not tell me that it is about any single percentage or similar, as Jesper Skalberg spoke about. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which is one of our responsible authorities for biodiversity, for example, says that GMOs can be useful and harmful in terms of biodiversity and that knowledge of long-term effects is very limited. This in itself can also actually make there is some point in having a precautionary principle. I may also think that the question is a little overdramatized. The criteria that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson refers to are criteria for eco-labelled funds where you get a plus point if you are fund manager and do not invest in GMO companies. It is important to point out that it is only a point requirement, that is to say that it is not an absolute requirement but that it may give a better score not to invest in GMOs. But it is perfectly possible to have an eco-labelled fund and invest in GMOs. It is therefore not an absolute head requirement. I have great confidence in our authority Eco-label Sweden AB and also for the eco-label system Svanen. I think we should continue along this path, because it turns out that that is what consumers appreciate. This means that we should not make political comments on the criteria.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-596	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Last year two of the most common concepts in Swedish and international debate were alternative facts and fake news – two different things. In plain language, this means that things are presented as facts contrary to what is shown by available sources and that news is designed to influence rather than convey a real image. These include disinformation and political influence. This can be seen as indicators of different things. Some call it postmodernism, that is, the idea that there are no objective truths and that all concepts of the world are equally valid at the same time. More accurately, we might say that in the debate we are approaching a post-actual time, that is, a time when the public debate is more disconnected from the facts and instead focuses on addressing people's feelings. Of course, you might find that disappointing, and so do I. Madam President, I would like I also think that GMOs are something that sounds dangerous. I understand that many people think so. It's an abbreviation that you react to. I also think the subject of glyphosate sounds dangerous, but I also know that GMOs or advanced plant breeding have compact support in the research world. That researchers want to do more research, I see as self-evident rather than something to draw great conclusions from. It is a bit the same with glyphosate, which is the most widely used plant protection product in modern times. The two EU expert authorities have carefully assessed it and concluded that it is not dangerous for people. There have been some debates on these issues with ministers, and people often come back with a desire to take people's concerns seriously. I can understand that attitude on an emotional level, but as a government you have a responsibility to stand up not only for what you think but also for what is true. If the government were to put feelings ahead of the facts, you would end up on a sloping plane with a final destination that probably no one would want to go to. Last year many Swedish ministers took part in March for Science. There has also been a rather high tone when talking about standing up for facts with reference to the new President of the United States. But when it comes to, and we're going to decide to continue to approve glyphosate, you're back to this with wanting to feel anxious and wanting feelings to have some kind of influence on politics. Therefore, I am a little worried when you say that it is okay to have a label backed by the state but that does not take into account what is the compact majority opinion on plant breeding in independent research organisations. The precautionary principle may be important in some cases, but if you leave it too guiding, and if you leave it alone, it is difficult to have a society that is developing. If the government sees that there are some problems but does not want to regulate in detail, the question is how much the state can back up a label that has no impact. If the Nordic Council of Ministers sets the criteria, is this not an issue that should be raised in this context and at least discussed?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-603	Madam President, I would like It has, as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is concerned, been a discussion about alternative facts and fake news and the like. I think it is good that there is a discussion so that we do not use unscientific arguments or ignore science on, for example, the climate issue. On the other hand, I think there is a danger in accusing anyone who does not think as a person to come up with alternative facts. Then I do not think we will have a fruitful debate and move forward. We obviously have somewhat different views on the state of research on GMOs. This may be the case, but it is important to note that there is ongoing research with GMOs in Sweden and in many other countries around the world. Hopefully, this research will also lead to a better knowledge situation and better answers to the questions. The Government governs Eco-label Sweden AB, that is, the state-owned company that also has the task of managing Svanen. We say there that what is important and crucial is that we can have a great deal of confidence in this label and that consumers both know it and trust it. It is also important, and it is true for all well-functioning eco-labelling schemes throughout the world, that if there is to be any credibility in setting these criteria, they should be set in a transparent and transparent process and not within, for example, government offices around the world. That is how we do it in Sweden. We leave it to the labelling organisation and its stakeholders to set criteria. As I see it, it is crucial for it to be an independent label and therefore also for it to have credibility. The government deals with GMOs in such a way that we take a stand on each case separately. We do not say yes to everything just because it is called GMOs; nor do we say no to everything just because it is called GMOs. We are carrying out an independent review of the characteristics of each GMO that comes in proposals to deploy in Sweden and that you want to use. Of course, the conclusion we draw is also based on science. And scientific assessments take into account risks to both human and animal health and the environment. They also take into account the precautionary principle. If there is one thing history has shown us, it is that it is quite wise to have a certain precautionary principle in your back. In Sweden, for example, we have problems with contaminated water because the substance PFAS has been used. It was thought that it was harmless and that it would not lead to any negative environmental or health effects. That didn't turn out to be true. The use of DDT has been very large on a global basis. Whoever invented DDT even got the Nobel Prize for his discovery. It was only afterwards that it was seen that it had dramatic effects on our environment, for example for seabirds around Sweden and the Baltic Sea. I therefore believe that there is a rather good basis for adopting a precautionary principle and starting by studying the effects of GMOs on human and animal health, for example, but also on biodiversity. Biodiversity also includes, for example, genetic diversity. There may be a possible impact. I think that the position taken by Sweden, that is to say that we are examining each case separately, is the one that is relevant to use. Nor do I find it surprising that the eco-label Swan has also used GMOs as a factor among many others. It is said that there is uncertainty, and it may therefore be justified to have it as a criterion. In the case of eco-labelled funds, for example, it may be a plus point not to use it.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-612	Madam President, I would like I have just two comments to make on what the Minister says. The first is that I think you fool yourself if you think that PFAS is a subject. It is more like 3,000 different substances. Many of them are absolutely dangerous, but some are crucial for our clothes to work at all. The second is the precautionary principle. I also believe that a certain precautionary principle should be used. But it's dangerous if it's the only thing that's guiding. When it comes to authorisation processes for medicinal products, it is often the case that during the time it takes just to approve the medicinal products you have actually had the opportunity to save hundreds, sometimes thousands, of lives. It is clear that there is such an aspect too. Madam President, I would like I'd like to end by being a little topical. A member of the Swedish Academy has written very insightful in a book about love and power that some decisions should be made with feeling and not with reason. I would like to say that it works well when you talk about things that affect emotional life. But when it comes to politics and things that we make decisions about in this room, it should be more about reason than about emotion. You need to have a fairly long and important discussion about it when you think about this eco-label. Even if you're supposed to maintain a high level of trust in people, you have a responsibility to take people's concerns seriously as well as a responsibility to stand up for what's true—even if it doesn't intuitively feel true in people's stomachs. If you still have empiricism, you should stand up for it. With that, I thank you for a rather interesting debate. I have not debated with the Minister before. But we should do it again.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-619	Madam President, I would like I also think it is an important and interesting debate to have. I was a former environmental scientist, before I entered politics, and I think that research is extremely important and crucial. Rather, the problem is that this House does not listen enough to research. Sometimes, however, we also need to note that the state of research does not provide us with the answers that we need in order to be absolutely sure on which path we should go. And then it is quite relevant to also use a precautionary principle and to say: In this case we do not think that you should give total green light, or for that matter total red light, for a whole technique. There are quite a few parts that come under the umbrella GMO. I also think that if an eco-label is to have credibility, there is every reason to listen to people and the concerns that exist. It is important to point out that it is not the case that you are forced to buy a swan marked product. If you like GMOs very much, think it is the best technology that has ever come and think that you should release everything freely, it is actually free to not choose a swan-labelled product. But if you feel a certain uncertainty and want to feel confident that this technology should not be used on a large scale but think that it might be best suited for research and development efforts, there is the possibility to choose swan labeled. In addition, the labelling system, as it stands at present, also provides the possibility for eco-labelled funds to make use of the scoring criterion. But there is also the possibility of not using it. It also provides flexibility in this respect. So I do not think that this is an issue that should be overdramatised. I believe that, in time, we will gain greater knowledge of GMOs. It will also give us better guidance on how to take this technology further into the future.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-626	Madam President, I would like Nina Lundström has asked the Minister for Infrastructure what measures he intends to take to enable consumers – car owners – to be informed whether the car can be refuelled with fossil-free alternatives such as HVO. Nina Lundström has also asked about measures to ensure that the design of guarantee rules and other rules designed to protect the interests of the car owner will contribute to a faster conversion of existing cars to more climate-smart choices. And she has asked about measures to ensure the quality of information on environmental and climate performance when purchasing passenger cars and measures to ensure that consumers have long-term rules and conditions. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to begin by thanking Nina Lundström for these issues on both a topical and a very urgent subject. In order for Sweden to achieve its long-term climate goals, which the Riksdag has supported with broad consensus, it is crucial to reduce emissions from the transport sector. The targets include reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport outside domestic flights by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. To achieve this, action is needed on both the fuel side and the vehicle side. Consumers' choice of both vehicles and fuels plays an important role. The Swedish Parliament has decided, following a proposal from the Government, on important instruments for reducing the transport sector's greenhouse gas emissions. Examples are the reduction obligation for petrol and diesel, which reduces emissions by gradually increasing the incorporation of biofuels, and the so-called bonus – the Malus system for new light vehicles. It rewards low-carbon cars, while high-emission cars receive increased vehicle tax. Both will enter into force on 1 July 2018. The government has also recently decided on a bill on environmental information about fuels. This information, which will be available at fuel stations, will clarify the environmental impact of different fuels, particularly in terms of climate impact. This will make it easier for consumers to choose a more environmentally friendly fuel. The provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. As early as the autumn of this year, a common EU label will be introduced in order to clarify which motor vehicles can be refuelled with different types of fuel on the market. In addition, the regulatory framework has been strengthened in the EU with regard to both test methods to approve new vehicles, as well as controls on consumption and release from vehicles taken into service. Information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of new cars should be provided in accordance with an EU directive, 1999/94/EC. Such information shall be available at the point of sale but also in, inter alia, promotional material. In the new version of the website bilsvar.se, recently published by the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency, consumers can take part in a climate index for a large number of car models. With regard to the issue of rules intended to protect the interests of car owners, it is worth mentioning that a general review of the consumer protection acquis in the EU has been under way and negotiations have begun on a revised directive on the purchase of goods by consumers. The Government intends to take sustainability aspects into account in further work on these issues. Long-term objectives and strong measures to enable them, such as the reduction obligation, aim to ensure a long-term approach to the rules of the game. With ambitious objectives and clear policies, the government has during its term of office created more long-term and predictable rules of play on the road to a fossil-free vehicle fleet.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-636	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. The reason I have asked the questions is the importance of making it easier for consumers to act properly. There are very many consumers who feel a strong commitment. They also follow the guidelines on instruments available. They buy a car and then buy a new car – if you need a car – because you want to make environmental and climate-smart choices. It is clear that there are many consumers today who are becoming curious about this with long-term rules of play. I have been contacted by a number of consumers and car owners who tell me that they are not told what to refuel their car with. It is very frustrating when there are fuels that are better from a climate and environmental point of view. On the basis of the questions I have put to the Minister for Infrastructure, but which Minister Per Bolund answered, I do not really feel that I have received an answer. I asked what measures can be taken by the Government and the Government to give the consumer a stronger position. Is there anything that could be done now? It would also be important to help ensure that consumers can contribute to faster conversion. I, too, believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that the consumer is also able to act properly. In what way will the Government and the Government act to ensure that there will be long-term rules of play? What has upset some consumers has been the discussion about environmental zones. A good choice has been made from a climate point of view. It is climate-smart to drive on diesel, but it is not good from the air quality point of view. Then the question is whether consumers can refuel HVO and perhaps have an adblue function in the car. This would achieve even better environmental and climate effects. In this case, however, consumers are very weak. A citizen has told me: At first I bought a very efficient and cheap little petrol car. Then I bought an ethanol car. Then I bought a diesel because I really wanted to do the right thing. And now I don't really know how to act. Will I dare to trust the political decisions? What's next? That signal is important for us politicians to have with us in the work. How are we going to enable the consumer to act properly? Madam President, I would like I asked questions about some concrete examples. E xact what of this can the Government in the near future contribute to? How are consumers to be informed in order to be able to act properly? If a car owner turns to a dealer and a dealer and cannot find an answer to the question of whether the car owner can drive on HVO or not, what will the consumer do? Should the consumer bear the full risk himself? A consumer was given a reply: Think about what you want, but the warranty does not apply. Then it feels like we are leaving these consumers in the lurch. Therefore, I would like answers to the questions: how does the Government intend to act in order to give consumers a stronger position in the near future and get the information they need to refuel as environmentally smart as it ever can?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-647	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, when it comes to the comment from the salesman, we can never vaccinate ourselves against misleading salesmen. When you come up with that kind of bad guidance, I think that the consumer should choose another seller. In fact, when you sell cars, you have a responsibility to deliver relevant information, such as whether or not a particular fuel can be used. The current legislation on environmental information and fuels aims to clarify which fuels can be refuelled in which car. This legislation will come in the autumn. There is also a clear indication in the Fuel Act of the environmental performance of different fuels. I also find it worrying that consumers feel that this is a difficult situation. I know that, in the case of environmental cars, there has unfortunately been a quick push in politics, and that is something that I regret. I think it is telling when one of our big car manufacturers advertises that it is difficult to understand the environmental regulations, and they use it as a selling point for their cars. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I think it should be easy to do the right thing. It is important to have relevant information, and that is what we are now gradually implementing. However, we cannot repeat historical mistakes. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the previous government pointed out diesel cars as environmental vehicles. I think that was a mistake, and that is regrettable. This has also led many who bought a diesel car to believe that they were making an environmental effort. We are now forced to take account of the fact that diesel cars have higher emission values, as was already known when the decision was taken in the last parliamentary term. Now consumers will not be able to use those cars that do not have the best emission values in the cities that choose to introduce environmental zones. I think it would have been better if the previous government had done what we did. We in this government are endeavouring to anchor our decisions as broadly as possible precisely to ensure continuity. Even if there is a new ruling in the next elections, it should be ensured that there is a majority behind a long-term approach. That is exactly what we have tried very hard to do. That is why we also have a broad foundation on the climate law that this Parliament has endorsed. We also have a broad-based target for the transport sector, that emissions should be reduced by 70% by 2030. We have also managed to get a broad anchor behind the measures that have been taken, such as the fuel change and the bonus – the malus system. In this way, it will be a long-term security. It creates clear regulations that clearly show what is the direction for the future, what goals are to be achieved, the way there and what tools are to be used. I think it is important that the consumers who have been put in a grip because the car manufacturers have not behaved can be right afterwards. For example, manufacturers have, in obvious cases, tampered with emission values and thus deceived consumers. There is now a great deal of work going on to replace the technology that does not measure up to ensure that the cars are restored to the condition that they should have had when they were sold, so that you as a consumer get what you pay for. Work is under way at EU level to further strengthen consumer access to justice. The level of sanctions should also be increased to ensure that high sanctions are imposed if the manufacturer fails to act. Step by step we are creating the long-term vision that consumers need. We are improving information, but we are also creating greater consumer security in the automotive sector.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-658	Madam President, I would like There is a difference between having bought your car, and still wanting to try to act right according to the conditions that exist, and buying a brand new car. In the Transport Committee we had a hearing last week on fossil-free fuels. One of the stakeholders who participated in the seminar noted that it is very difficult for a consumer to get a reply. There are two car brands today where it can be stated what the car can be refuelled with. Just today, I was looking at what various car companies are responding to the question of what motorists can refuel. Car branding cannot answer the question – you wait for the situation, you cannot give advance information. One of the operators even says that, for reasons of competition, it does not want to indicate what the car can be refuelled with. Then there's a dilemma. The government has come up with a bill dealing with environmental information about fuels. But having information about fuel when car owners don't know what they can refuel does not help those car owners very much. There are now actors who carry out a very important work, such as Fossil-free Sweden. The aim is to bring together all actors, as all players in the market should work in the right direction. Has the Government had the opportunity to contribute there? In the case of those operators who state that they do not have an answer to the question or do not want to respond to it for reasons of competition, it should be important to obtain that answer. After all, most cars are already rolling on the roads. It is about 4 million cars, of which 40 – 45 percent are diesel cars. If we could change and make it possible for consumers to refuel something better, that would surely be a great blessing. Then we would achieve the important climate goals more quickly. I do not think, Madam President, that we should confuse what would be the most climate-smart, i.e. CO2 emissions, with air quality emissions, NOx emissions. These are really two goals that stand against each other a little. It can then be very smart to drive with diesel out in the country. I think you have to keep the concepts separate. On the basis of the work under way, I think that the government could be more active and help the consumer to obtain information. It could have a much faster impact. Speaking of long-term rules of the game, I do not share the view of the Government on one point. As the government has reasoned on environmental zones, I am not at all sure that the best way is to once again define car models, etcetera. I think, for example, that the possibility of fees should have been tested. Economic instruments and without ban will make it easier for motorists to take responsibility for the car they have. It would not then be the government that imposes bans, but the municipalities that are given this opportunity. It would have taken a different approach to see what the conditions were from the beginning. But again, Madam President, I would like to know exactly what the Government can contribute to speeding up progress so that consumers can start acting as soon as possible. One such initiative could be to produce information that would make things easier for consumers.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-668	Mr President, I would like to There was a little slip in the last post. However, it is important to point out that the government has obviously not proposed a ban on diesel. It will be perfectly possible to drive a diesel car around the country even when the environmental zones have been introduced. What the environmental zones aim to do is to ensure that the air environment in the cities – especially the inner parts of the cities – does not make people sick. We know from very well-documented research that diesel and the resulting air pollution present very serious health problems. High levels of particles and oxides of nitrogen can be linked to stroke and premature death, for example. There are also links to dementia and various types of cancer. Of course, I think that we have a great responsibility to ensure that people in our country have an air environment that prevents children from becoming ill and growing up with chronic lung diseases because we are unable to deliver a healthy air environment. In this way, I do not think that a balance should be struck between climate effects and, for example, air environmental effects. We must ensure that we achieve the common environmental objectives. We have an environmental objectives system in Sweden with 16 environmental objectives. One is the climate target, which is incredibly important. It's something the government fights for every day. But we also have an environmental objective of clean air so that people do not get sick. The government's ambition is clear. We will be able to achieve both of these objectives and the other 14. It is nice to hear that various forms of congestion charges are popular. This has not always been the case. When the Green Party pushed through congestion charges in Stockholm there was a bast resistance, unfortunately also from the Liberals. However, congestion charges have proved to be effective in using road space as smartly as possible. However, I do not believe that various forms of economic instruments are the right way to achieve clean air. I believe more that in some parts of the inner cities only cars with the best environmental performance, which do not contribute to the deterioration of air quality, will be allowed to drive. However, you are free to drive in all other parts of the country. So this is about a small part of our wide country. There are also other important balances. It is important to point out that HVO, for example, which is highlighted a number of times in the interpellation, is a fuel that in many ways is good from the climate point of view. But there are other problems. Depending on the raw material used to produce the HVO, there may be a huge impact on biodiversity. Unfortunately, if we are to increase the amount of HVO very strongly in Europe, for example, we will probably have to use palm oil in order for such a scale-up to be possible. There are, of course, major risks to biodiversity at a global level. We know that this also leads to the impoverishment of rainforest areas and the like. We sometimes have difficult balances and conflicts of objectives, and then we must try to shape the rules in such a way that we actually achieve all the environmental objectives that we have supported, both internationally and in Sweden. I have of course participated in Fossil-free Sweden's activities. I think they are doing an excellent job. However, when we solve the climate issue, we cannot at the same time create new problems in other parts of society or exacerbate other environmental objectives. Instead, I see that what we are now highlighting and what is made possible by bonuses – the Malus system is a very strong increase in the use of electric cars and hybrid electric cars. I believe that this will be an important part of the solution for both air quality and the climate challenge in the future.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-677	Mr President, I would like to I do not feel that I am getting answers to the question of what efforts the Government and Government can make in the near future. I listened to the previous debate on van den Broek. It made it very clear – and there seemed to be a consensus on it – that it is incredibly important that consumers have the opportunity to make these choices. It also means that consumers must be informed. I think it should be possible to do more to ensure that this information is provided, because climate and environmental issues are so important. More should be done to get these responses to consumers. They're the weaker party. Those who have already bought a car cannot do much about this, possibly except by buying another car or replacing the car. But if you can refuel something else, it would be a blessing if you made it possible. The use of HVO is also the reason why heavy-duty vehicles have reduced their emissions by 25% in recent years, as the Government knows. There is a great opportunity to refuel during a conversion period with something that is extremely much better from both environmental and climate point of view. That is why I think the issue is so important. There are of course producers here in Sweden who do not use palm oil but pine oil and other things to bring out HVO, and who highlight it clearly. But in a transitional phase, it would be a very good question to highlight. However, my question remains, Mr President. What information does the Government give consumers? What can the Government do to ensure that the car owner who wants to refuel with something that is environmentally smart can get information to make such a choice? After all, consumer power is based on getting correct information. What can the Government do to strengthen consumers' opportunities so that they can contribute to the important work to improve the environmental and climate situation in Sweden?
i-PNDeHenUGBMY9EufLGH3uW	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Nina Lundström, for an important debate and discussion! Precisely because we see that the problems of obtaining information and delivering knowledge to car buyers and transport buyers are overall so big we are now making huge changes. We set long-term goals and anchor them so that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish parliament and the goals do not change depending on which government comes to power next or next time. We are also implementing the measures needed to achieve this. We have, for example, the reduction obligation that allows us to phase more and more biofuels into petrol and diesel over time, so that it is becoming increasingly better from an environmental point of view. We also make laws on environmental information about fuels so that the knowledge comes out to consumers in an easily understandable and relevant way. We will now introduce an EU label at all service stations which will make it clearer which motor vehicles can be refuelled with different fuels available on the market. It should not be a question that you cannot get an answer to, but a relevant answer should be given there. We are now also introducing a bonus – Malus system that makes it clear that the best cars in the environment should be affordable. It is financed by paying extra money for the cars that contribute most to destroying both the climate and the air environment. In this context, I think it is important to highlight the fact that alternatives to the car can also be used. We are now investing heavily in public transport, for example, but we also make it possible to use car pools and other modes of transport. This is particularly true in urban areas, where there are options to choose from. On the other hand, in rural areas, where alternatives are difficult to find, there should be opportunities to refuel your car with environmentally friendly fuels in the future. For this reason we are introducing, among other things, the change of fuel so that we gradually move towards a bio-based society.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-686	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me how I intend to move forward on the issue of individual sewers. I would like to start with the fact that, overall, we have too little waste water treatment from individual sewers rather than too much. Nearly a quarter of a million individual sewage facilities with a water toilet in Sweden lack purification after the sludge separator. This means that the wastewater is largely impurely discharged into ditches, lakes and streams. The question of how much waste water from an individual plant needs to be treated depends on where the plant is located and the natural conditions at that site. If the environment is sensitive and affected by many small individual sewage plants in the immediate area, it obviously places higher demands than if the plant is isolated and far away from, for example, wells, watercourses and bathing areas. An assessment is already being made of which treatment is reasonable for each plant. If a sewage plant is not at risk of contributing to eutrophication, no specific phosphorus cleaning is required under current rules. Almost always, on the other hand, basic purification is needed to reduce the emissions of infectious agents and organic matter. When you do, you will almost always get some phosphorus cleaning. I would like to remind you that, in addition to the report discussed in this interpellation debate, the Maritime and Water Authority has also funded two other projects to update the guidance on the risks of emissions from small sewage plants. I understand that our authorities share a common view of the environmental impact of individual sewers on the basis of current scientific research, and it is not in line with what Edward Riedl says. I note that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management also keeps up-to-date, monitors the research situation, orders research reports, handles them and sees how all of this needs to affect the agency's work. It is therefore an overall assessment of the state of science as a whole that the authority is doing. I would also like to remind you of the investigation that is currently reviewing the municipality's obligations under the Water Services Act and questions about small sewers, the so-called "Sustainable Water Services Report". It will present its final report on 31 May.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-693	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. But let me start at another end. I think it was about 15 years since I was given a lecture that made me very fascinated. The one who gave the lecture was Hans Rosling. I didn't know who it was. He has had a great time as a lecturer, but until then I would have missed it. What he was talking about was the increased life expectancy in the world and what it was due to. He asked a question in the auditorium: What human progress do you think has affected life expectancy most? The question was rhetorical. He wondered if we thought it was, for example, the antibiotics or medical advances in general. But what he mentioned – which was thought-provoking – was precisely clean water, functioning sewers and functioning garbage management, which ensures that infections, spreads and so on. I wanted to say this from the beginning, because there is no difference between us in terms of whether we should have clean water, functioning sewers and functioning garbage management. I think we are in complete agreement on this, all parties. We see the need for it. There is currently a debate on everything from phosphorus to heavy metals. There has been a rather heated and infected debate about different parts between the National Federation of Farmers and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. I am in no way better than all the different actors who make different statements in different directions. The minister points to the investigation. It's a one-man investigation, if I'm not mistaken. I'm sure the minister can do better than me. Approximately 1 million properties in Sweden lack municipal water and sewage and have other solutions instead. If you force the owners to connect these properties to municipal water and sewage, there can be quite a lot of costs, Mr President. We are talking about sums of up to half a million kroner. Many of these properties are far away, far out. It is not even the case that everyone is valued at amounts that amount to what is now to be invested just to get a solution like this. This has been highlighted by the LRF, the Cold Facts and many others. There is a rather heated debate, and I understand why. It's about so much money. There are currently solutions that are cheaper than forced access to municipal water and sewage and that meet environmental requirements. Nevertheless, they are not allowed, and that is what the whole debate is about. There is no debate about whether we are in favour of or against functioning sewers and clean water. We fully agree on that. The question is whether it is reasonable for the state, through its authorities, to force individuals into extremely expensive solutions when there are solutions that meet the limit values and are significantly cheaper for individuals. That is really what this whole debate is about. In my next speech, Mr President, I am going to talk about what I think is important in this debate and what I think is missing. It is a question of proportionality. I will try to explain what that concept means in this debate. That is what I think is missing. My question to the Minister is whether the Minister thinks it reasonable for us to force individuals to come up with more expensive solutions without increasing environmental benefits. If there are actually different working solutions, why should we force individuals into the most expensive solution? That's what we're doing today.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-700	Mr President, I would like to The question is not quite as simple as Edward Riedl suggests. I'll try to handle a few different parts. Some relate to the quarter of a million individual drains which today lack purification after the sludge separator, the discussion about which of these drains it is factually and relevant to make demands for some form of purification and the state of research on this issue. As I said, individual assessments are made of this. One factor you take in is where the plant is located. What's the ground look like? Is the facility close to a well or a bathing area etc.? Then you make higher demands. There is always a requirement for the type of purification that ensures that the risk of infection is managed. As Edward Riedl says, this is perhaps a somewhat forgotten base in our welfare society. We have organised our society in such a way that we handle the va issue and ensure that we have clean water in Sweden. We have good water in Sweden, but that picture should not make us think that we are completely finished. It is still the case that we have quite a few individual sewers that need better purification. The first question, then, is what kind of requirements to make. A great deal of research is being done on this, and new knowledge is being brought in. Unfortunately, there have recently been outright errors in the discussions. A half-finished research report has been used as the main reason. Unfortunately, this is also the case in this interpellation. You paint a completely wrong picture of the research situation. In fact, there is a reasonable consensus on what is called retention, that is, how nutrients spread in the soil. But new knowledge comes, and the authorities take in and use it as a basis for individual decisions. Then there is another part, which is that we are demanding precisely that we connect to the municipal va-net. It's governed by the Water Services Act. There have been judgments that have created a very rigid application of the question when requirements for connection to municipal networks are to be made. It is therefore a number of judgments that have created a practice that I do not believe was the intention of the legislator, who does not have support in Parliament and which we on the part of the government do not think is relevant. That is why we have set up an inquiry looking at this very question: do we always have to demand connection to municipal networks in rural areas, where there is a small number of houses? An important aspect is exactly what Edward Riedl is addressing, namely that we have seen technological developments. New, smart and more small-scale solutions have emerged that can be an alternative to connecting to the municipal water network. Of course, we are going to have legislation that steers towards the smartest solution, and I am waiting, as I said, for the outcome of the investigation on 31 May. The investigation was set up precisely to deal with this – to update the legislation so that we should not be rigid but always have an activity adapted to the conditions, take in new knowledge and use new technology.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-706	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is a lot about proportionality, and let me explain what I mean – sometimes you throw yourself away with too complicated words. What it really is about is that we politicians have the opportunity to make decisions and, through our authorities, force individuals to comply with what we say. Sometimes it involves costs for the individual, but it should be in reasonable proportion to what we want to achieve politically. Let me take an example to describe very simply what it is all about: when you go and buy a pet bottle of mineral water you today pay the price of the mineral water plus 1 crown in pledge, and when you return – pawns – the bottle you get back the crown. It is a reasonable and good system that allows us to get the vast majority of pet bottles back instead of them ending up out in the wild. This is proportionate, that is to say that a rather small cost means that we get almost all the bottles back. Instead, you might imagine raising that crown to $10,000. Then, of course, we would get more pet bottles back at the margin, but that would no longer be proportionate to the political objective we want to achieve. That is really what this is about and what I think is important in this debate: the political objectives we want to achieve and the individual's cost should be proportionate to each other. Here we have people out in the countryside whose properties are valued at less than half a million SEK and who, although they already have working solutions, will be forced into a municipal water and sewage system – which can cost up to 500 000 SEK. People are being forced off these properties. It doesn't make sense. It is not proportionate to what we want to achieve. Then we will come to the question on which the Minister was concerned. We do not disagree; I say exactly as I said in my first speech, which I understand the Minister agrees with. It's an issue we talk about quite a bit, but clean water, functioning sewage solutions and good garbage management are good grounds for us to live long and healthy lives. We fully agree on this, but that is not what this issue is about. The Minister says this is not that simple. No, of course you can say that, but it is also not very difficult when you see people in rural areas who get unreasonable charges. I do not think – and that was really my question, Mr President – that it is proportionate to the goals we want to achieve to force people into extremely expensive solutions of up to half a million crowns. There are solutions that are almost as good or as good – there is still a dispute – and where the same effects can be achieved in practice at a much lower cost. That is what I mean: we want to achieve an environmental benefit with this money. We should not force people to come up with extremely expensive solutions. That is not proportionate, and that is really what this debate is about. I share the Minister's view that anyone who has no treatment obviously needs to obtain some form of purification. The question is what the answer should be, and I interpret – reasonably benevolently – the Minister's answer as that perhaps the Minister does not think it is entirely fortunate that the answer to all these questions should be municipal water and sewage, which in some cases can be extremely expensive. Instead, you can find other, better solutions. I guess you'll have to put a lot of hope into the investigation. It is still a one-man investigation that I guess is about looking at the existing research situation, and there is probably no revolutionary emerging. Hopefully, however, the investigation can come up with what I mean must be proportionate solutions to the individual. We cannot force people into things that are extremely expensive if the benefits are marginal. Then we can't do it. There is no one who would propose 10 000 kroner deposit for a pet bottle, even if we know that at the margin there would be a little more bottles that came back. It is not proportionate to what we want to achieve.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-713	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this discussion is about the fact that in Sweden we still have a fairly large number of individual sewage plants, some of which do not have sufficient treatment from the beginning and others are aged and no longer supplying. There is supervision, and if such supervision reveals that either infectious agents or nutrients are being spread that are at risk of entering watercourses and reaching our seas – which are severely affected by eutrophication – demands are being made. The requirements are specified for the site, and you obviously use current research when making such assessments. The debate comes from the fact that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has commissioned three reports from different researchers on various aspects of this, including how to calculate how nutrients are carried out through the soil. New digital maps have been developed that make the information on which these decisions are based much better. The second part is about whether, when requirements are made, it is precisely requirements for connection to the municipal va-net to be set, and here Edward Riedl knocks in a wide open door. I was courted a while ago by a number of municipal representatives who pointed out that courts have developed a practice that is square. It requires municipal sewers as standard and does not take in that new technology has arrived. That's why I've set up an investigation to look at this and the Water Services Act. It is not a very difficult question in itself, and I hope to be able to get a proposal that will quite easily be able to change this. It is important not least for rural areas and the possibility of building housing in rural areas. The interest in this is great, and we shall welcome that. I have to say that I note that Edward Riedl does not at all ask the same questions in the discussion as he did in his interpellation, and I would like to ask: does that mean that you have taken on board what I have been able to explain in the interpellation response and that you simply understood that what is in the interpellation is wrong, Edward Riedl? It is based on a claim that international research agrees that there is no need for further purification for a three-chamber well with infiltration and whether to set such requirements. In fact, that is the question, that is, whether I want to stop making such demands, and the question is based on a completely incorrect picture of what research is saying. It would be great if the debate has led you to take on that task, which comes from our authorities. The actual state of research shows that it is very important to take local conditions into account. The actual knowledge of how nutrients penetrate and whether they can reach watercourses says that we should set requirements for water purification even from nutrients.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-718	Mr President, I would like to As I began the whole debate by saying, the benefits of clean water, working sewage solutions and good waste management are great for communities. They have made us live much longer and much healthier lives. We fully agree on this, and nothing in this debate is about this. I think it's important to make that clear. The second part, which I have tried to describe, is actually about proportionality. So the question is: are the policies we propose reasonable or not reasonable, and how do they affect the individual? I guess that's why the question is so big. The Minister for the Environment can say in the speaker's chair what she wants if one, than the other, but the fact is that a lot of people in the countryside are extremely hard hit by this. There is a complete uprising around precisely what concerns individual sewers. This debate is important. In the Cold Facts TV programme, which I guess the Minister has also seen, it was about having a working solution. I think the example was taken from Dalarna. Despite the fact that in this case you have a working solution that has been approved, you should be forced into a much more expensive solution. I think it is a good thing – let me say this – if the Minister's initiative lands in the conclusion that much cheaper solutions can be used. I hope it will be that way. That is really what the debate has been about from the outset – that it is unreasonable to force individuals into the municipal water and sewage network if you have other solutions that are at least as good but at a significantly lower cost to the individual. What this is about is that the right thing as it is drops down a letter in a person where it says that the person is now forced to join the municipal water and sewage network. Here's the bill: 500,000! Please pay! The amount may be slightly lower, but this can happen even though there are other solutions that are much better.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-723	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we have the opportunity to discuss these issues in this House. A lot of people sit with a separate drain and want to do the right thing. We have extensive problems with eutrophication in some places. We need to get to grips with that, and then it is important that we work effectively. Politically, there is no conflict whatsoever here. If there is a smart solution at lower cost that gives the same results, it is the one that should be used. Legislation needs to be updated when new technologies come. There is today an interest in building on Swedish countryside. This is extremely good, and we will make it simple. I still maintain that this issue is rather straightforward. We have had an unfortunate development in the application of the legislation. The legislation is not based on the technology available today, so then we will arrange it. The second part is that the debate contains incorrect information as to what needs for purification may exist. Such an error was clearly expressed in the interpellation that I have received from Edward Riedl. He claims that international research agrees that there is no need for further purification after the sludge separator, which is simply not true. That Edward Riedl has not repeated this at any time in this House, I take the view that he has come to his senses and listened to what the authorities say. They have clearly highlighted what research actually says, and we can continue the discussion on that basis. That's good.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-728	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what initiatives I and the government have taken to update the implementation of national legislation of interest and what proposals are intended to be put on Parliament's table to achieve the intention of the rural bill regarding national interests. National interests are a way for the state to influence and protect interests of particular national importance in social planning. As Jesper Skalberg Karlsson well knows, in December 2013 the then government decided to appoint a special investigator to review Chapter 3. the environmental code and relevant parts of Chapter 4; The Environmental Code, the so-called "National Interest Investigation". The assignment was presented on 2 December 2015, when the investigation submitted its final report Planning and decision for sustainable development – Environmental Code's regulations for the economy (SOU 2015:99) to the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's request for the initiative to update the implementation of the national interest issue is addressed in the report, which is also referred to by the rural proposal. The question of topicality testing for national interests is being prepared in the Government Office.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-729	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden has a fantastic nature, and that is something that we value very much. Nature and ecosystems provide food, recreation and health, among other things. Nature's factory – if such a comparison can be made – is constantly running and delivering these ecosystem services. Among other things, it is about air and water purification. Our economy, our prosperity and our lives require that the services that our ecosystems produce actually work. The fact that the state makes some minor interventions in selected places to create value for more is therefore reasonable. It can be about water supplies, to take a very concrete example. Mr President, I would like to This presupposes, however, that the various forms of protection available are well designed and used wisely. There are some problems here. As an example, we can take the beach protection rules, which must be fundamentally reformed if we are to achieve development in coastal locations. This is not just a question for wealthy Stockholm municipalities – here in town they have already built up to the shoreline – but rather a question of justice for us in rural areas who want the same opportunity. Just as is the case with what this interpellation is about, that is, national legislation of interest, so far the government has not done much in this area. Parliament has announced flexible beach protection, but the government has put the issue on ice. Mr President, I would like to This interpellation, however, is about national legislation of interest, and there the problem is partly different. Today, a little more than half of Sweden's surface is covered by national interests, which puts sticks in the wheels of other things that may be of interest to Sweden. One such thing can be construction. After all, there is a huge housing shortage in the overwhelming majority of the country's municipalities, which hampers the development and growth of our country. We should remember that national interest legislation is very old, which means that many national interests were pointed out a long time ago. There are some problems that follow. For example, in some places where national interests have been identified, it may be that what one would protect does not exist or that it is no longer needed. It may also be that the rules on national interests are so vaguely formulated that you do not really know what it is you are protecting in this particular place. If national interests stop new construction and the whole thing is poorly justified, this in the next step will destroy confidence in the entire legislation. It is boring at the system level, because there are truly safe environments. Of course, I will not get an answer when this preparation within the Government Office is completed, but does the Government agree with the general description of the problem of national legislation of interest? And is this the starting point for preparation within the Government Office? As a Member of the European Parliament, one becomes extremely curious about how these preparations are actually going. The Government Office is, so to speak, a place where there seems to be a lot of exciting things that you have limited insight into.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-739	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that it is very exciting to have insight into the preparation in the Government Office – I can recommend it! The question of national interest concerns several things. We have, for example, a national interest in the defence and other national interests for the mobile outdoor life. There are very different things that are protected by the same method. This affects planning in Sweden – there is no doubt about it. I have a background as a municipal politician in matters relating to construction and have been very active in SKL. On the part of SKL, I have made quite a criticism of how the application of national laws of interest works in Sweden. I understand that there is consensus on the issue of the updating of national interests, which Jesper Skalberg Karlsson raised in the interpellation. This needs to be dealt with. Some national interests were established some time ago. Sweden is changing; the landscape is changing. It's being built, and other things happen. Then we need to update the national interests. This may involve removing something or providing information about exactly what is to be protected. This was raised in the investigation as a proposal. And the government confirms in the rural bill that it is the government's view that periodic topicality testing of designated national interests needs to be done from a rural perspective, but it is also necessary for other reasons. To make it a little more complicated, it is not the same across the country when it comes to how often a topicality test needs to be carried out and also not the same for the different national interests. At the same time as a preparation takes place at the Government Office, a great deal is happening in the country which concerns these issues and which will make the handling of the issues much better in the future. I will mention some of these. Boverket produces guidelines for other authorities for the management of all forms of planning and has in a fairly new guide pointed out to all authorities that they should examine the national interests on a topical basis. There is also a great opportunity in the ongoing digitalisation of the planning processes. It develops underlying support functions in order to digitise plans. This will also specify the handling of national interests. This will greatly facilitate both the municipal planner and the sectoral authorities working with and following the development of national interests. One reason why we are not taking rapid action here is that we are following the developments that are taking place in our authorities working on this. We're not going to over-regulate. If the authorities can resolve the issue of application, we should not change the law if that is not what is needed. There is also a great deal of dialogue between municipalities, county boards and sector authorities on how to improve the application in these parts. Among other things, SKL has initiated a process that they call early consultation, where they develop good examples of where it has worked and study what it is that has worked and what can be learned from it. They also point out that it is more about application than about the law.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-750	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is very much an interpellation that relates to the link between the national legislation on interest and the proposal on rural development that the government puts on the table of the Riksdag. If you work on rural issues, you know that they are closely linked to agricultural policy. If you want jobs in rural areas, you need a functioning and offensive agricultural policy. The challenge to achieve, for example, the environmental goal A rich agricultural landscape is to maintain active agriculture in Sweden. The responsible and sustainable management of land contributes to biodiversity and environmental benefits. If we are to have a rich agricultural landscape, there needs to be land and opportunity for this. Mark really needs to be used. If Sweden is to be able to approach a circular, bio-based, fossil-free social economy, which is also innovation-rich, which the bill explicitly takes on board, we will probably need to reconsider, update and reduce interventions to make room for people and companies who can work for this very thing. Then we need a proprietary policy that does not interfere more than is actually required. It can be said in this context that if agricultural land is cultivated, we can have both food security and increased biodiversity. If we use the forest, we can have both a growing bioeconomy and a large carbon sink. It's really a good deal. Mr President, I would like to At the heart of this is the topicality testing of protected areas, which I think would really strengthen the legitimacy of those places where national interests really exist. Today we have the situation that many national interests that have been identified no longer contain what was intended to protect from the outset. At the same time, there are places that should be national interests but which are not. I admit that balance is not easy. But approaching a more effective implementation should of course be possible, and the government also says this is their ambition. The government mentions this change time and again. It received the final report in 2015, and the change is mentioned in its rural bill, so it feels like the government in many parts wants to speed up the pace. The question is whether you can really sit back and say that you hope for implementation and that the authorities will solve this themselves. That's a little bit of a double message from the government. Mr President, I would like to Maybe it's a bit of a routine government criticism on my part to say that you bury proposals in the drawer. I also know that the government does not want to carry out everything proposed in investigations set up by other governments, but it is interesting that the government points to the national interest legislation in both the Rural Committee and the Rural Bill. The question is whether the government should not speed up now, the Minister for the Environment.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-757	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by correcting Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, who spoke about national interests as protection. We have a formal framework for nature protection, which is something other than national interests. We have national interests for mobile outdoor life, for defence, for energy and for infrastructure. So one should not paint a picture that this is only a matter of nature conservation, because then one does not land correctly. I want to strongly deny the image that we've leaned back. We are actively working on the issue of well-functioning social planning, including the parts around national interests. And I have had an active dialogue with municipalities, county boards and authorities on the issue in order to find the right one. But we need knowledge of what does not work today and knowledge of how the landscape has changed and how it needs to affect that actualization exists locally. It is not always central regulation and legislative changes that are the best way to address the type of planning problem that exists locally. As former Commissioner, I can say this is one of the convictions that I will never ever abandon. It is not always the case that a government is most capable of action when it changes a law. As Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Housing, who is of course also very active on these issues, I have really had a dialogue to understand what is not working today and, when it works, what it is that makes it work. I've learned a lot from SKL's process of identifying, when it goes well, what makes it go well. Much is being built in Sweden today, and it is being built in areas that are identified as national interests and in areas with beach protection. A national interest is not a dead hand. We must use the tools that are available wisely and well and make clear demands on our authorities to cooperate and participate actively in the planning process. We have identified that the digitalisation of the planning process that the Minister for Housing and Digitalization is pushing is opening up very good opportunities for those who work locally and regionally to invest in housing, infrastructure and public services and to manage national interests wisely. One step in this is to raise national interests. As I said, Boverket has already recommended to all authorities that have sector responsibility for national interests to update them, because it is their task to guide the other authorities in how this should be handled. Things are happening in the country; it does not stand still. If it is necessary to amend a regulation or a law, we will of course do so. I could make it quite easy for myself and change a team and then tick a box. It would show the Parliament that I am capable of action. But if it doesn't solve the problem, that's not what I'm going to do. I am working instead of solving the problems that exist locally in dialogue with those who work locally.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-765	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for the Environment is right, and I may have spoken carelessly. National interests do not provide formal protection. However, it is reasonable that other formal protections can be examined on a topical basis. For example, Natura 2000 sites are remarkable, because they are forever. It's a little weird, and here we are at odds. I agree that legislation is not always the best tool. Of course, it is tempting to say that if the law is rewritten everything will be fine. It's the tool we have, and if we only have one hammer, everything looks like a nail. However, as far as this legislation is concerned, I believe that it is in fact we in this House that have touched from the outset. That is something to be included in the analysis ahead. I look forward to an amendment to the regulation or law on national interest legislation. If it does not happen this summer, I hope that at least one has a slightly so soon completed project to hand over to the next government, because this is in the interests of many – different municipalities of different colours and with different conditions. If there is a broad parliamentary commitment to what was achieved in 2015 it is about time that we in this House also performed something based on it. But we'll have to do that when it's done.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-769	Mr President, I would like to Much is being built in Sweden. Housing, infrastructure and public services are being built, and there will be more infrastructure once we have put together the national infrastructure plan. This raises some questions about how our community planning works locally and regionally for us in parliament and government, and it is important that we have our ear to the ground in these matters and that we react when we get information about problems or rigidity in our regulations. The fact that the application of national laws of interest does not always work well around the country is clear, and it is clear to everyone that a way is needed to update the appointment of national interests. The map must of course be adapted to the ground. This should be done in a way that really responds to the practical problems that exist in the construction of society around Sweden. That is the Government's ambition, and the work to do this is already underway with our authorities. I am convinced that the best answers to these questions will be found in dialogue between municipal representatives, our central authorities and county boards. They're the ones who sit with this every day.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-773	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked the Minister for the Environment if she believes that the government gives Sweden's owners of diesel cars a reasonable chance of conversion given the design of the proposal to introduce environmental zones in our cities. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me clarify the starting points that the government has had in shaping the national regulatory framework for environmental zones. The problem of local air pollution caused by road traffic is greatest in metropolitan areas, and in some cities the environmental quality standard for nitrogen dioxide is still exceeded. Often it can be a single street that is affected. It is important that problems can be tackled on the basis of local conditions. The City of Stockholm has widely asked for the possibility of tackling the problem of local air pollution by introducing new environmental zones. The Government is now designing a national regulatory framework that allows municipalities that see such a need to introduce environmental zones for light vehicles. It should be stressed that it is the municipalities themselves that decide whether and where environmental zones should be introduced. It has been important for the government to find a design that helps to make the air cleaner in the cities while at the same time people and businesses need to know what applies and have time to switch to environmentally friendly technologies. According to the design, Euro 5 diesel cars will be phased out of environmental class 2 only in 2022, allowing those who need to drive in the zones time to adapt before the bans come into force. The government statement means that there is now a predictability for municipalities, companies and car owners, who can now plan for the future. This contrasts with the Moderates who changed the conditions for Sweden's car owners every two years.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-782	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I have asked whether the government's decision on new environmental zones from 2020, when cars rolling on our roads can be banned from entering cities, gives Sweden's diesel car owners a reasonable chance of conversion. The Minister for Infrastructure replies that two to four years is a reasonable time for conversion – no other way is possible to interpret the answer. The problem is that a new car has an economic life span of 17 years, and it is given two to four years to reset. The Social Democrats and the Green Party once again betrayed the country's car owners when deciding on environmental zones. The fact that the Green Party doesn't like cars wasn't news to me. On the other hand, the eagerness of the Social Democrats throughout their term of office to bring news to me for the country's car owners and people outside the cities. The tax on petrol, diesel and vehicle taxes has been increased and the deduction of travel expenses has been reduced. Decisions have now also been taken on environmental zones, which will affect 1.3 million diesel car owners in Sweden. These environmental zones are being introduced because of a rather loud opinion in Stockholm which claims that the air soon cannot breathe. However, according to a report from the Environmental Administration in Stockholm City, today the air is 100 times cleaner than it was in the 1960s. No time and nowhere in St.Okholm exceed the limit values for what you want to combat in the last measuring year, but you are well below all the limit values. You are implementing a policy based on loud sentiments that completely lacks factual support in Stockholm. Then you send the billion bill that it is actually about to everyone else in the country, and it will be paid by those who, in good faith, have bought low-carbon cars. Many of them have also received environmental car premiums for these purchases. Mr President, I would like to I do not understand why it is so important for the Minister to enforce this legislation. We can see that the limit values are not exceeded and, compared to the 1990s, we have halved emissions. I cannot understand the facts on which this drastic measure is based. In an earlier debate today, I spoke about proportionality, and this is also the case here. On a rather shaky basis, tough decisions are made that have major consequences for individual car owners. The car is the second largest expenditure of households. As I said, the economic life expectancy is 17 years, and the Minister thinks that a reasonable transition period is two to four years. The air in Stockholm is getting better and better, and it is the air in Stockholm that is the basis for this legislation. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister will be the one I have put to the interpellation. I am likely to receive no answer in this House other than what the Minister just gave. Why was it so important to enforce the change on this basis? This affects quite a lot out in the other parts of the country. This is urban policy without facts.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-791	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that Edward Riedl is engaged in populism and possibly in completely incorrect descriptions. It is tragic that the Moderates – in and of themselves during an election year, but still – mature into using this type of argumentation. In the interpellation you can read that Edward Riedl claims that diesel cars must not be driven in cities. We have seen articles from Moderates in several different newspapers saying that 1.3 million cars will be banned. That's not true. What is true is that, among others, the Moderates in Stockholm, along with other parties there, have wanted to find an opportunity to protect citizens from large emissions of carbon dioxide. On the day we presented the rules on environmental zones, Hornsgatan measured the double value of harmful substances of hydrocarbons. We did so in a situation where it is known that it is directly harmful for the children and young people who walk along this street. I know that Stockholm has said that these are essentially rules that it intends to introduce on individual streets or in individual areas. For the government, it was important to respond with a national regulatory framework so that we do not get such a development as we have seen in several European cities and countries, where different local rules are found depending on the local opinion and political conditions. We want a national regulatory framework, and now at the beginning it will mainly apply in Stockholm. There is no other municipality that has requested the introduction of environmental zones. If we have a bad development in emissions after the diesel scandal, that may be the case in more cities, but I do not think so. It is important that we get a national regulatory framework so that there is predictability. I find it strange that we want to consider what local moderates in the Stockholm area, along with other parties, wanted: a tool for protecting citizens. At the same time, it was important for us when we put forward such a proposal to create a predictability that allows us to know the starting points in good time, even though this means that we may not be allowed to drive certain vehicles on certain routes. This is in stark contrast with the changes in the rules that took place during the reign of the alliance government. Every two years, the conditions for owners of diesel and petrol cars and the whole fleet were changed. Environmental cars were exempt from congestion taxes between 2006 and 2012. Ethanol and hybrids were rewarded with reduced benefit value by 2012. However, between 2007 and 2013, an environmental car premium was introduced, which was first replaced by car tax but then introduced again. Then the tax was changed a few more times. Were Edward Riedl and the Moderates prepared then to compensate those owners who could see that the secondary or expected sales value of their car changed as a result of moderate tax changes? I think it is important that we listen to local interests who want to protect citizens when they have high emissions, but I also think it is important that we take the environmental issue seriously. The diesel scandal that we have seen through has resulted in a sharp increase in NOx emissions in Europe, with harmful values. In large part, the car industry can be held accountable for this. In Sweden, 150 000 car owners have now been given the opportunity to adjust their cars free of charge so that emissions are lower than they were before.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-801	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that the report I refer to is drawn up in the city of red-green Stockholm. It is the minister's party that sits there together with the Green Party, the Left Party and the Feminist Initiative, and it is the City of Stockholm's environmental administration that has produced this report. I understand, Mr President, that it was very unfortunately presented, because it came shortly after the very drastic decision. One could show that the air in Stockholm is 100 times cleaner than it was in the 60's. Since the 1990s, emissions have been halved. In the previous year, the limit values were not exceeded once for what the change is set to fix – not once – but by far. Against this background, I believe that the voters deserve us to make decisions on the basis of real facts. That is the problem. The Minister has a tone of voice on the basis that the arguments are over. I understand that the report came very unfortunate after doing so. The problem is that you should have a loud opinion in Stockholm. That's what the government has done. Then you send the bill out into the country and you say, "Look! During the previous government there was a lot of twitching in the politics of cars. I do not think anyone who listens to this debate is going along with it, but I think we can see what is happening. The fact that we had carrots – environmental car premiums and other things – during the two mandates of alliance government, I do not think the voters perceived as a twitch in politics. What is at issue here is punishing those who, in good faith, have bought low carbon cars – energy efficient cars. That's it. The minister slips on his tongue often here, and you should never make fun of that. It's about the difference between carbon dioxide and the other emissions, of NO x. One way of meeting CO2 emissions is to get more people to have diesel cars, and that is what it was about: to make sure that we save the climate. Of course, there are problems with diesel cars too, and some of them were emissions. However, the question is whether it is reasonable for those who buy cars in good faith that would help save the climate to have 2 to 4 years to reset when the investment is 17 years old. The economic lifetime of a car is 17 years. If you enforce this kind of policy, you deprive individuals of quite great economic values. That's the twitching we're talking about. I think that people can accept what is about environmental car premiums and that they can change from one year to another, because it is about cars to be bought in the future. What the government has done is to have said to 1.3 million owners of diesel cars: it was very stupid of you to buy this car, and now we will make sure that it is lower. This is done despite the fact that research and facts show that the air is becoming cleaner every day in this city, for which the change is now being made. I think that's a shame. I think you should start from the facts and what is real. We agree on the challenges, but there must be a reasonable transition. The Minister mentioned the Moderates in the City of Stockholm. Let me take it before we change speakers. They feel that if this is to be done, it must be done with a much longer introduction, because this is an unreasonable way of hitting individual car owners.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-812	Mr President, I would like to It is up to the City of Stockholm to decide when, how and if you want to introduce this. But the Moderates, like the other parties in Stockholm, asked for a regulatory framework for the introduction of environmental zones. Then I think it is reasonable that we in the government and the state actually regulate this in a way that makes it equal conditions throughout the country, if other municipalities also want to use this tool. It is, of course, up to the local politicians in Stockholm to do this. What I can't understand is that the Moderates seem to think that 1.3 million owners of diesel cars long to drive on Hornsgatan or in some other restricted area of Stockholm, because it's obviously the mathematics they're doing. For most people in Sweden, the diesel car will be a very good alternative. At home in Småland where I live is the starting point for many. It is just as Edward Riedl says low carbon emissions, and there are no major concerns either in Växjö or Kosta when it comes to NO x values. But in Stockholm it is, in Berlin it is and in Hamburg it is. In many of the larger cities, this is an obvious problem. If we have not understood the debate that is taking place in Europe as a result of the manipulation of the NOx emission values that the car industry was engaged in, then the environmental debate that is under way has not been followed. If the secondary value is affected, I would argue that it is more affected by the manipulation of limit values, but also by the concern that the Moderates are spreading in their debate articles by giving a picture of 1.3 million cars being banned. That's not true. My question must also go back: in what way do Edward Riedl and the Moderates think to protect those who live along a street or in a neighborhood where the ma n has very high discharges of NO x? What tools do you want to use? In the field of environmental policy, the Moderates have so far been against most things. What we know is that you thought it was successful and a good strategy to subsidise diesel cars and raise taxes and then lower it and then raise it again and create a twitchiness. We know that what you also did was that, once it applied to the Swedish automotive industry, you betrayed them properly by not providing either support or development opportunities in a situation where the automotive industry crisis swept all over the world. In the United States, Obama nationalized the automotive industry to secure industrial skills. In France and Germany they went in and made great efforts to keep it. In Sweden, the alliance government did not lift a finger. And thousands and thousands of jobs, but also a lot of skills in the automotive sector, disappeared. Thankfully, the Swedish automotive industry is now strong again. The industry sector isn ́t basicly gone, which Fredrik Reinfeldt seemed to believe. We hear from the automotive industry that they like to see environmental zones introduced, that after 2021 Volvo will not have any vehicle that does not have an electric driveline and that there is a transition that is important to meet the environmental objectives that we actually have. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We have high ambitions. We are working together with industry and industry to implement this. But it should be done in a way that also provides opportunities for people to change. We do this with the regulations that exist – with the bonus – malus system and with different forms of premiums that enable us to manage a change in the vehicle fleet. If you want to introduce environmental zones in Stockholm, you have the opportunity to do so. If you want to give up, which I notice Edward Riedl thinks you should, you have to do it. It must be a local question in the municipality where the issue belongs.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-824	Mr President, I would like to I must comment on the shocking fact that the car industry, which thus produces new cars, thus seems to be in favour of the government taking decisions that mean that people have to buy new cars if they are to get into the cities. It was shocking. I think even the government understands that if you destroy the old car park, it is clear that those who manufacture the new cars think it is absolutely fantastic. But it is not certain that everyone who has bought cars in good faith and had hoped that the value would remain at a certain level or that they could at least use the car much longer is satisfied. Their dissatisfaction may be another matter. But what this is about is the 1.3 million diesel car owners. The cars will not be banned. We didn't say that either. What is really at stake here is that parts of the cities are being closed down – that is my point, Mr President – for example in Stockholm. I know that the Minister's party colleagues in Umeå certainly do not rule out the introduction of environmental zones in Umeå as well. The more cities that do this – we have had that debate locally in many places – and given the way the Green Party has brought the Social Democrats before it in a government position, I can say that anyone who believes that environmentalists will not do the same in local S- and MP governments in the country, I think they are completely deceiving themselves. Then someone might say that there are no emissions in this municipality. But that is the problem, namely that this debate is completely free from the facts. It is therefore clear that there will be a lot of bans in a lot of cities with this door open if Social Democrats and environmentalists are allowed to rule. That's the problem. Then individuals will be affected. People need to use the car to drive to and from the different points. And often you get into cities, even if you come from the countryside. That is why this proposal is so bad, because it makes this impossible. Unfortunately, I do not have time to say everything I was going to say, but I thank you for the debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-828	Mr President, I would like to I note that Edward Riedl is now nuanced. Now we should not ban all diesel cars, not even in whole cities, which can almost be interpreted by the interpellation that Edward Riedl made to me or the Minister for the Environment. It is clear that the truth is difficult when you are forced to realise that the opportunity that the government is opening up to is a national regulatory framework that can be applied. Where it is relevant in Stockholm, it is said to do so on individual occasions. It's a local question you have to deal with there. If you want to do this in Umeå or elsewhere, it is the local politicians with the opinion that is there that can discuss the conditions. The regulatory framework applicable to environmental zones is currently under preparation, so that this is done in a legally secure manner. I note that I cannot note any concern on the part of Edward Riedl because, if it happens that children are suffering serious brain damage today from the emissions that there are, and if it is the case that all the alarm reports that Edward Riedl does not read actually have an ounce of truth because it is research institutions and others that produce them and show what health risks this poses. What responsibility do the Moderates and Edward Riedl take for this? It will have to be a rhetorical question because Edward Riedl's speaking time is over. I find it sad that we are having an environmental debate in Sweden that ignores scientific facts and where you do not see research reports and do not take people's concerns seriously. We create a regulatory framework that creates predictability and long-termness and that can be the same in all municipalities in the country. Then there will be a discussion in Stockholm on the extent to which it wishes to introduce this. We have had environmental zones in Sweden for heavy vehicles for a long time. They have existed for a very long time, and I have not heard that the Moderates or any other party have wanted to abolish them. We are now introducing this possibility also for passenger cars with the type of emissions that make it harmful emissions of NO x. I think it may be a tool that one might need to use, a little depending on how quickly the vehicle fleet is being renewed. Thank you for a good debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-834	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked questions to the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation regarding the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's operations in the United Arab Emirates and owner instructions to state companies. The responsibility in the government is distributed so that the interpellation is handed over to me. Both public authorities and state-owned companies operate within the laws and regulations that apply at the time. The Government decides, if necessary, on ownership directives for the companies in relation to their respective assignments and operations. The Government submits a letter annually to the Riksdag regarding the company administration. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is an authority. The Finnish Civil Aviation Authority and the companies in which the State has direct or indirect control of the operation constitute a business group. The question of ownership instructions is therefore not applicable. Instead, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is governed by regulations with instructions to the Authority and regulatory letters. According to the regulation(2010:184), the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority may carry out service exports within its territory. The Government has stated to the Riksdag on several occasions in the budget bill that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority will continue to exploit the possibilities for a broader revenue base through assignments outside Sweden. The responsibility for the activities lies with the authority's management. As far as the mission itself involved in the interpellation is concerned, I note that it concerns air traffic control at five civil airports in Abu Dhabi. The Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's delivery within the mission, as a subcontractor to the local company, is a competence in civil air traffic management. The agreement was concluded in 2013 and is valid until April 2018. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority refers to the possibility of military air movements in respect of take-off and landings in civil air navigation services at civil airports. This is how it works nationally and internationally. According to the international civil aviation regulatory framework, the air operator of civil aviation is obliged, for aviation safety reasons, to handle all the air traffic in the airspace for which it is responsible. It is not a matter of combat control but of the mission to separate air traffic so that it can be done safely. In conclusion, I note that the agreement expires on 30 April 2018.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-840	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation on the activities of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration in the United Arab Emirates. We initiated this interpellation in the light of the recent findings of the Swedish Radio programme Caliber concerning the cooperation of the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority with the dictatorship of the United Arab Emirates. It was data that made us deeply concerned, because Caliber could demonstrate that the cooperation also has clear links to both the military and the arms industry, despite the fact that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration will work only with civil air traffic control. This is pointed out by the Minister in his interpellation response. The United Arab Emirates is a dictatorship with a strong and growing military and is currently at war with Yemen. In Caliber, personnel confirm that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has been directly involved in air traffic management of military aircraft on a daily basis, several of which have been on their way to war Yemen. The United Arab Emirates are deeply involved in the war in Yemen along with, among others, Saudi Arabia. It is a warfare that counts as war crimes by Amnesty International, among others, when schools, hospitals, markets and mosques have been attacked. For example, there have been reports of the Emirates bombing civilian targets. An expert at Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut, FOI, describes that the Emirates has gone from being a bit of a military hidden ice to becoming a new great power in the region. Yemen is one of the world's poorest countries, and after three years of war the situation is acute. The UN refers to the situation as the world's largest humanitarian crisis. Millions of people are on the run, the lack of food and water is great and the famine is widespread, while the country is plagued by diseases such as cholera and diphtheria. Of the population, 40 per cent are children under the age of 14. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström has made it clear that there is no military solution to the conflict, and last year Sweden's aid to Yemen increased. That's good. At the same time, however, the government's policy on the issue is characterised by double standards. In the past, not least in the foreign policy debate, the Left Party has highlighted the issue of Swedish arms exports to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. It is the opinion of the Left Party that Sweden should not export arms to dictatorships or belligerent countries. The basis for Swedish development policy is Sweden's policy for global development, PGU. It states that development policy should be permeated by a rights perspective and based on the poor's perspective on development. It is also stated in this context that Swedish policy must be coherent, i.e. that all policy areas must contribute to meeting the development policy objectives of fair and sustainable global development. I find it difficult to see how the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's actions in this case are in line with Sweden's policy for global development. I do not think I am getting any great answers to the questions I put in my interpellation, but I still interpret the answer as if the Minister does not intend to take any action in the light of the information that has come to light. I understand that there is no point in reviewing the regulatory letter in this case. I would like some clarity on that. Does the Minister really not think that it is a problem for the Civil Aviation Administration to route a large number of military planes and thus indirectly contribute to the United Arab Emirates' warfare in Yemen?
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-850	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for your answer. However, nothing is mentioned about the Government's view of state-owned companies should work in line with Sweden's policy for global development. Policies for global development should be based on all policies when deciding what to do. It should therefore also govern the work of public authorities and state-owned companies. As the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's companies now guide military flights on their way to Yemen, it is clearly against the PGU. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has highlighted a lot in her interpellation, so I will not dwell on that. On the other hand, it has been found that LFV Aviation Consulting, a company of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, has also marketed its digital services at one of the world's largest arms fairs in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. This has happened despite the fact that it should not deal with weapons or the military, but only work on the civilian market. PGU is designed for all policy areas to see that they can also contribute to a better world. Now that the whole world has developed Agenda 2030, we will see it as the PGU will guide everyone so that it really happens. In the 2030 Agenda, we can read the following: and Violence in all its forms is one of the biggest threats to development at both individual and societal levels. Reducing and preventing violence, especially against women and girls, as well as conflict violence is an important challenge for the 2030 Agenda. It is important to break a cycle of repeated violence: the risk for conflict-affected countries to relapse into violence is significant – the risk that a child who has been subjected to violence, as an adult herself uses violence against others, is imminent. " The countries of the United Nations have thus agreed in the adoption of Agenda 2030 that war does not contribute to the creation of a better world. War means that many civilians fall victim when their homes can be destroyed and their income opportunities weakened, that children's education is at risk of missing and that women and girls are exposed to a multiple greater risk of sexual violence. Once the war is over, the area has suffered major environmental damage, and the reconstruction is long and at risk of setbacks. I have to say that the government's beautiful words about Sweden continuing to be a pioneer country and taking clear responsibility for global challenges do not feel so credible if they allow government companies to be linked to conflicts. It is therefore not the government's promise of a feminist foreign policy, nor when we have allowed arms exports to dictatorships and belligerent countries for many years. Nor are they when a subsidiary of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, which is not supposed to deal with weapons or military, but only work on the civilian market, goes to an arms fair without having applied for a permit for arms exports. Speaking of this, it will be interesting to see how well the new Act on Export Control of Armaments will work. But we will have to come back to that at a later date. My question is whether Minister Eneroth agrees with me in my view of what the PGU means and will thus ensure that the authorities for which the Government is responsible really work in accordance with Agenda 2030.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-859	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, both Yasmine Posio Nilsson and Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for a good interpellation and for the debate! It is very good that you raise these questions. I appreciate the commitment. I myself am deeply committed to the issue of having high standards of how we act internationally. We are a feminist government. We are pursuing a feminist foreign policy. We have made a clear change of course in relation to the regulations that prevailed during the time we had an alliance government. We have made sure that we now have a new export control law. In my interpellation response, I have responded to what are my responsibilities regarding the Authority and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority. That is why the answer does not contain any comments on state-owned companies. That is not my responsibility as Minister of Infrastructure. I note that in the case of state-owned companies, there is a clear state ownership policy that we have changed compared to what it has been like in the past. It says, among other things, about the global goals – and there I really share the view that they should be guiding – that companies with state ownership within the framework of their operations should analyse the global sustainability goals of Agenda 2030 in order to identify the goals that the company through its operations affects and contributes to. The company is also expected to identify business opportunities that contribute to achieving the global sustainability goals. Companies with state ownership should act responsibly and work actively to comply with international rules on environmental, human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption and business ethics. The Government has identified a number of different international principles and guidelines that are essential. These include the Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. It is now a completely different set of rules than before. We must ensure that state-owned companies act correctly when acting abroad. The agreement for which the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has been recognised was concluded in 2013 and is now concluded in April 2018, right now this month. There is no intention that it will continue, according to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary to make any changes to regulatory letters or other things to the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority. However, this discussion is a good one. I appreciate that Caliber has also chosen to review how both the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and other companies act abroad. It is important that this transparency is made so that we have a high level of transparency and great demands that we act according to the tasks we have. My assessment is that this is what the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has done. It has acted with civilian air traffic control. Here it is important to remember that according to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, as I also note in the interpellation response, the mission to have civilian air traffic control means that one must ensure that aircraft do not clash with each other in the air. This also applies to military aircraft entering the air area. It is therefore within the framework of civil air traffic management to also conduct all those who are in that area. This is the case in Sweden and internationally. Another arrangement would mean separating the management centres from each other, which would jeopardise aviation safety. I don't think any of the interpellants are valiant. This, and nothing else, is the starting point for the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. I note, as I said, that cooperation in Abu Dhabi will end now in April.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-870	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech. I am pleased that the Minister appreciates my and Yasmine Posio Nilsson's commitment to this issue. It is also positive that the Minister points out that global targets should guide companies' actions. In this case, however, I believe that the action of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration is contrary to the global objectives. It is quite clear that, in the case of the United Arab Emirates, there is no distinction between civil and military air traffic control. This has also been confirmed by a number of people in the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's own staff. Then the question is whether the Air Transport Agency should actually exist in the United Arab Emirates at all. As the Minister says, this contract will be concluded in 2018 – that is of course also positive. Staff from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration have told Kaliber about, among other things, a kind of military terminal located at the civil airport of Abu Dhabi. According to Swedes who have been present, the programme shows that military cargo aircraft were arriving, such as helicopters and armored cars, which often had a destination in Yemen. In practice, this is about the fact that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's wholly owned subsidiary LFV Aviation Consulting AB participates in and is responsible for air traffic control at five locations in Abu Dhabi as a subcontractor to the company GAL ANS. The cooperation started in 2013 and will be worth about SEK 1 billion. Although the mission is civilian, it has had a clear link with the military, as has been demonstrated. This is remarkable in the light of the fact that the country is participating in a comprehensive warfare in Yemen, which I have talked about in the past – a warfare that has had devastating consequences and is described as a humanitarian disaster by the United Nations. The war has led to enormous suffering for the civilian population, not least women and children. DN has previously reported how the Strategic Product Inspection as late as 2016 granted arms export permits to the United Arab Emirates for nearly SEK 11 billion. It is now also apparent that the State Administration of Civil Aviation indirectly contributes to the warfare in Yemen. Although the mission is classified as civilian, personnel from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's subsidiaries must have been directly involved in the air traffic control of military aircraft on their way out on mission. According to information provided to Caliber, there may be as many as two to three military aircraft on their way to Yemen on a daily basis. This is therefore a rather large-scale activity. We think it is clear that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has in this way contributed to building the military muscles of the United Arab Emirates. We want Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy, human rights, peace and disarmament. Sweden has every opportunity to be such a voice in the world. However, if this is to be possible, we cannot continue to arm or cooperate with countries that are in war and states that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. The Air Transport Administration's cooperation with the United Arab Emirates provides indirect support for the warfare in Yemen. I think that this is clear and is contrary to global objectives. We believe that this cannot continue. It is gratifying that the agreement expires and will not continue, as the Minister says here. But it is also important to learn from this story for the future so that it does not happen again.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-878	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his reply. It is positive to hear that you are lifting just this with everyone following the PGU. I look forward to not having to debate this again. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that when LFV Aviation Consulting is marketed at one of the world's largest arms fairs in the United Arab Emirates, it is clear that the state companies are not following the PGU today. From what you have said, I therefore expect the government to ensure that this is done.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-880	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Yasmine Posio Nilsson and Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for the interpellation and discussion! I think it is important, and it is also important that we in the Swedish Parliament constantly have a discussion that makes public authorities and state companies know that there is a review and a follow-up of how they act. I assume, of course, that the then government, when it accepted the agreement then passed by the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration in 2013, looked at the conditions. It has also been reported to the Riksdag on a regular basis. This means that the Riksdag and all its members during these years have had the opportunity to follow the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's actions. However, I note that it is only now that it is properly noted that there have been reasons to have views on the action. As far as the government is concerned, the most important thing that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority says and reports is that everything has happened within the framework of civil air traffic management. Civil air traffic control means, as far as I understand it, that it is obliged, if necessary, to be able to conduct military movements as well. They too go down and land at civil airports. These are international rules, and this is how it works here in Sweden. The background is aviation safety reasons. As for the agreement, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has announced that it will be terminated, and it will expire now in 2018. There is no intention to extend the agreement, which means, of course, that there will also be no reason to make any major changes afterwards. Nevertheless, I would like to repeat what I said at the outset. We shall have clear rules for how both state companies and Sweden act internationally. Companies with state ownership shall act responsibly. They will work actively to follow international guidelines on environmental, human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption and business ethics. It is important to follow and take into account the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and that we have the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. I might add that I was also a member of the UN when our Prime Minister launched the concept of Global Deal, which means that we invite companies, trade unions and states internationally to participate in an international movement to achieve decent working conditions and to comply with common rules and have a social dialogue. Given that these decisions are not always taken in multilateral assemblies, we in Sweden must be able to act internationally. There was strong support from countries around the world: Canada, Chile, Pakistan and many others. But also many companies, globally and internationally, want to be involved, and I think it is important that we realise that Sweden is an example when we act. Just as Mrs Wallström is an international example of feminist foreign policy, we are promoting human rights in all the different arenas, the UN's global goals and the 2030 targets. This is important, and it is therefore also important that we constantly have an analysis and review of how we and our companies act and how we control this. During this period of government, we have been clear about the governance of state-owned companies. I note once again that the agreement concluded in 2013 is now terminated in 2018 and that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority does not intend to extend it.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-890	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I am pleased that this agreement is now being concluded, and I think it is very positive that it will not be extended. I hope that this example and experience have taught us and that, in future, this type of agreement will not be concluded with countries that are dictatorships and that are in a conflict of international law, as in this case with the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. It is important that if Sweden is to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy, human rights, peace and disarmament, we must become clearer and clearer on this issue. The law on arms exports has certainly been tightened up, but we are not really satisfied with it but think that you can go even further and really make sure that Sweden will not export any weapons at all to military dictatorships or have any cooperation with military dictatorships in any way in the military field. This is important for our credibility for the future. I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate.
i-32f96968b8da6ef6-893	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Johnsson Fornarve for a good debate and a good interpellation. I think we have a fundamentally similar approach to this. Sweden should be an example internationally. We need to ensure that this applies to both state-owned companies and how Sweden acts as a nation. During this term of office, it has been clear that, not least with Margot Wallström's strong leadership internationally, we have struck a blow for feminist foreign policy, been voted into the UN Security Council and seriously affect world events and give a voice to both women's rights and human rights in space to which the previous government never had access. It is a success for those of us who believe in an active foreign policy and fight for humanism and human rights, and I am very proud of that.
