i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-4	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate the Committee on Justice's report on Criminal matters, which also contains four proposals for announcements by Parliament, which I hope the House will decide on later. There is no indication of anything else. It is about 200 motions from the general exercise period 2017/ 18 that form the basis of the report. There are very many different issues involved, all of which are essential in their own way. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 8 and 9. We are, of course, in favour of all the reservations, but I am in favour of the two reservations for the time being. Let me start by mentioning something about the importance of the four announcements. The first announcement concerns the criminal law protection of health professionals and the strengthening of penalties for violence against health professionals and possibly other vital social functions. The problem that has been highlighted that underpins the announcement is that some functions in society are not adequately protected by criminal law. If you engage in the exercise of official authority, you are subject to the rule of violence against officials. However, there are others who are covered by it because it is explicitly stated in other legislation. Then I think, for example, of guardians. They are subject to the rule of violence against officials even though they do not perform official functions. This is because the legislation governing that activity says, in Section 7, more specifically, that the provision of the Criminal Code shall apply to guardians. It would have been quite easy to make such a change in health care staff. We know that violence has increased and also a number of other totally unacceptable behaviours that take place in our emergency rooms. That is not acceptable, and somehow we as legislators must react to it. The next thing is sharper penalties for drunk driving and gross illegal driving. Then you ask yourself why it is necessary. We know that a very large part of everyday crime – if we call it that – is connected to people who have a criminal lifestyle and consist of drunk driving and gross illegal driving. No consideration is given to other people or to traffic. You drive repeatedly drunk. If anyone is suspected of serious drunk driving, that's one thing. Then the penalty scale is such that there is the possibility of detention. But for someone who is a notorious drunk driver and is guilty of drunk driving that is not grossly drunk driving, the penalty scale ends in six months' imprisonment. It's the same thing for gross illegal driving. Then there is no possibility of remand if the relapse is at that level. That is why the announcement proposes raising the scale of penalties to prison for one year. Madam President, I would like Crimes with honorary motives are an area that is quite attentive today, given that there are quite a few – especially girls – who live in a context where they are cropped their freedom. They are not only affected by close family members who, in turn, are often forced to pressure young girls and women to live a life that they may not want to live at all. We think they should decide for themselves what life it is in our society. There is reason to look at crimes with honorary motives so that it gets its own crime classification. It's not just supposed to be a crime rub. With a role model in the violations of peace, there is reason to look at it. If you have several different acts, each of which is a crime and take them together in an honorary context, it becomes of course more serious. This leads to a completely different starting point in the penalty measure. So it is with the violations of peace. Finally, when I talk about the imposition of penalties, the reasons for honour in the event of a crime should be a special penalty. There are already two grounds for enforcement in the Criminal Code that apply to such cases. But there are other crimes based on motives, such as hatred of other people, who have their own grounds of punishment. There is reason to have an explicit one also in the case of honorary motives. With regard to the reservations I have called for, I would just like to say that, with regard to violence against officials, which is the first reservation, the Bluelight investigation came up with a proposal to tighten up the penalty for serious violence or threats to officials. This is in itself a good thing, but it does not cover the daily violence suffered by many police officers and other officials covered by the provision. The proposal does not satisfy Parliament's announcement that one should have one's own criminal classification for violence and not have a common criminal classification for violence or threats against civil servants. The sentence must also be at least six months in prison. Here the government would have had the opportunity to satisfy the announcement, but it has not been so far. Finally, I will mention something about the drug offences. They are a scourge and, in many respects, a root cause of other crime. The shootings that have unfortunately become quite common in Sweden are due to drug trafficking and control of territory and are also linked to other types of crime. We believe that criminal law should play a central role in the fight against drugs. One should have a strict, firm and consistent view of that kind of crime. Illicit drug trafficking not only endangers people's health and quality of life for those who abuse drugs themselves, but for a great many in their environment. This often leads to the very gross violence. We want to tighten the penalties for drug offences in order to get to the serious organised drug management. It has not been adequately met following the amendment of the Act of 1 July 2016 when provisions were introduced for particularly serious drug offences. In the Supreme Court's assessment, the more serious the crime, the less and less important the amount of drugs. That is a fundamentally incorrect view, we believe. The amount of drugs is ultimately always limitable to the aggregate damage that occurs, both at individual level and on society as a whole. There is reason to come back to this in a different context later.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-20	Madam President, I would like We are debating the criminal motion report. It is one of the most urgent exercise reports because we have had a criminal policy that has had to be developed under the social liberal forces for a very long time. The very social-liberal influence on criminal policy is why so many people in our country feel that very many dangerous and heavy criminals far too many times escape far too easily. Ideology matters. The attitude of socialists and liberals towards punishment is that the punishment must be justified on the basis of individual or social added value. If someone is to be punished, it should be done with the primary starting point that the punished should have the best possible conditions to become a stronger individual or an asset for the general. If it turns out that shorter prison sentences statistically make criminals less criminal, social liberal forces believe that short sentences are preferable, even if they bring with them a few isolated, but very serious, accidents. The social liberal forces often lack what is guiding the policy of the Swedish democrats, namely the victim perspective. For the Swedish Democrats, the ability of criminals to adapt to an honest life after serving time is secondary. The most important thing is that punishment should give victims redress and act as a mark from society against crime. Another important starting point for the Swedish Democrats is that the penalties should serve as a protection for the public against very dangerous individuals. It is not okay for life-threatening violent criminals, murderers, rapists, gang criminals or terrorists to be released anyway once convicted of serious crimes. Today, not even a life sentence usually means a life sentence, but it is usually possible to have the sentence converted into a time sentence after ten years. In addition to general penalty rebates, which social liberal forces are very fond of, there is today a conditional release for the vast majority of those serving a sentence in prison. And it happens regardless of whether the correctional services consider the person to be fatal, with a high risk of relapse into crime, or not. The faithful party of the Social Democrats The Left Party has even put its neck out and called for life sentences to be abolished. According to the Left Party, it is not humane that, for example, Englas murderer Anders Eklund should have to live in uncertainty about how long he will be in prison. For the Swedish Democrats, this is not a problem at all, rather the opposite. For us, it is a problem that Englas relatives should have to live in uncertainty if Anders Eklund is to have his life sentence timed and thus released or not. This is a dividing line between the Swedish Democrats, the liberal parties in opposition and the government cartel. We protect the victim perspective; you protect the criminal perspective. In addition to strengthening the guarantee that life imprisonment will mean life, we also want certain criminals who have been convicted of particularly serious or serious crimes in theory to be able to sit in prison for life. We have chosen to call this a storage judgment. This means that documented dangerous individuals who are convicted of a crime that is serious but does not meet the requirements for a life sentence should be able to be sentenced to storage. It will then be a fixed-term punishment according to the scale of the crime but with a possibility of extension in custody if it turns out that the sentenced person is dangerous with a high risk of relapse. If the risk persists after the first extension in custody, further extensions may be granted by a court. In theory, this should enable dangerous individuals to spend their lives in prison for a serious crime that does not meet the requirements for a life sentence. We can take the example of Martin Jonsson's death abuse of Lotta Rudholm. Martin Jonsson will receive his first assault sentence when he is 15 years old. A few months later, Martin beats a guard by jumping on his head. The guard loses much of his sight as a result of the beating. After a couple of years when he's been released, it won't be long before he attacks another man. That man is beaten so badly that he later dies of his injuries. Martin is sentenced for that assault to eight years in prison. During Martin time in prison, carers warn that he is deemed to be very dangerous with a high risk of relapsing into crimes of deadly violence. Despite the warnings, in 2010, Martin is on parole after serving only two thirds of his sentence. Violence continues, and within a year Martin will be sentenced again for four cases of abuse by several women. And despite his history, Martin on this occasion will not receive a prison sentence but will be sentenced to probation with a health program. Martin doesn't care about the health care program without much consistency. Instead, Martin begins a new relationship with a woman who gets edged by violence. After only a year, he'll be convicted of pushing a knife to the woman's throat. He is sentenced to two years and six months, including for gross women's freedom. During his time in prison, Martin receives repeated warnings for inappropriate behaviour and for threatening female staff. He also chooses to drop out of the treatment program against relationship violence. According to the assessment by the prison services in connection with the release of Martin, there is a high risk that he will abuse more women. Despite this, Martin Jonsson is again released on parole after serving two thirds of his sentence. That's when Martin begins a relationship with Lotta Rudholm. Lotta will after some time contact her repeatedly with relatives about the violence she is subjected to by Martin Jonsson. It is a question of constant death threats and violence that results, among other things, in broken ribs. Lotta sends pictures of his bruised body to her loved ones so that there will be evidence of everything he does. After many tours, Lotta agrees with her employer that she should not stay with Martin and that she must contact the police. She will then arrange temporary accommodation and contact the police. Lotta asks her plaintiff what the chances are that one of all cases of assault can be assessed as gross. This is doubtful because it is normally required that weapons or devices are involved. Lotta is afraid that Martin will receive a short sentence and will be released after two thirds of the time and then be able to claim his revenge. Lotta therefore decides not to participate in the investigation, and soon thereafter the investigation will be closed. Today Lotta is dead. She was beaten to death by Martin Jonsson. The death abuse did not meet the requirements for life imprisonment, but Martin was sentenced to the longest fixed-term sentence of 18 years. Martin will be free, probably after serving two thirds of his sentence, because social liberal forces consider it humane and always deserve a new chance in life. Madam President, I would like If the Swedish Democrats had the power to decide, the parole would never have been an option for any of the crimes committed by Martin Jonsson. In addition, he would have been punished longer from the beginning for each individual crime. The case of Martin Jonsson is a well-founded example of the reasons why the Swedish Democrats propose an opportunity to be sentenced to custody judgment. Madam President, I would like There must be an end to the government's social-liberal influence on criminal policy. Innocent people have too many times had their lives broken and even ended prematurely because our government believes that the criminal perspective should be put before the victim's perspective. It is very clear to me that we need a whole new focus in criminal policy – a focus that really protects the victim perspective and the public's right to be protected from dangerous individuals. Here in the Swedish Parliament, this direction is primarily represented by the Swedish Democrats, and it will unfortunately be noticed when the remaining parties in here vote against the Swedish Democrats' proposal on custody rulings. I hope that my motion for the approval of reservation 13 will echo among the voters with the hope of a new criminal policy direction as early as the autumn elections – not least for Lotta Rudholm, Engla and their relatives and all those who suffer in various ways from the social-liberal criminal policy.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-42	I would like to draw the attention of the speaker to the fact that individual documents should not be subject to judgments during the deliberations of this House.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-43	Madam President, I would like The word honor is difficult to understand in certain contexts. What exactly is honor? Sometimes we really need to commit to a promise, and then we promise honor and honor. We pledge our reputation to such a promise, and if we break it, we commit ourselves to giving up the reputation our environment would otherwise have for us. One, or actually two, of the four announcements that we are proposing in this report to the Parliament today are about what we call honour crimes – violations and criminal acts that take place in order that the person who commits the crime for some reason considers himself justified or perhaps even guilty of committing it in order for his, her or, most often, the family's reputation to remain intact. I saw some exercise in the flora that addressed the concept of honor. Almost every time I go around Centersverige and talk and the concept of honour comes up, someone raises the question that we should actually call this type of crime something else, because these crimes are far from honorable. However, it is such an accepted concept that it may be difficult to change. Moreover, it is more important that we put all our energy into combating the crimes of honour than that we spend time and energy discussing what they are called. But I really understand the idea. I have this year the honor and the privilege of being a goodwill ambassador for never forget Pela and Fadime. This gives you a great deal of knowledge about this dark phenomenon. There are also many personal stories, lives and terrible crimes that innocent, defenseless people, often children, have been subjected to. When I was going to write this speech, I thought I would read a poem from a collection of poems called The Forbidden Love Calendar, but I chose not to. It's kind of too much for this context. It is beautifully described terrible stories of atrocious crimes committed by perhaps the very worst of the reasons. For what exactly is the motive of honor about? It is putting one's own reputation, or rather, a very twisted image of one's own reputation, before respect for and love for a loved one – perhaps the most close one has, one's child. How love for your children, as for most parents, is the most expensive thing you have, suddenly weighs easier than anything so diffuse and subjective as your own reputation is completely incomprehensible to me, and it probably is to most people. Yet this happens time and year after year, and the problem seems to grow as soon as possible. Sometimes when I talk to people who know more about honour crimes and the causes behind them, they show that factors of economic and social exclusion are involved. There are stories about families that didn't live and reason very much from an honorary context but where since some kind of radicalization took place. It's not certain that it's worth so much to cave in. It is a good thing if, with better knowledge, better social and economic inclusion, less segregation and a better functioning labour market can prevent people from developing into honorary criteria, but it does not really matter in this context. Today, we state that honorary motives are supposed to be a punitive basis. You expose someone to a crime because you consider your honor to be in danger, not only do you make a gross misjudgement of this so-called honorary value, but you also receive a harsher penalty. And that's just the purely criminal punishment. There is also a social price– in fact, if you like, an honor penalty where your honor in the eyes of the vast majority for all time will be near zero enough. The second announcement in the field of honour is about introducing a crime of its own, modelled on the crimes of terrorism. If a person is subjected to crimes that have a low penalty but are repeated and systematic, the violation becomes serious. This is now stated in this report, and another piece of the puzzle in the work to protect these victims is added. Then we have to do a lot more. There are certainly things we can do in the legislation, but it is also about gathering, disseminating and making knowledge available. It is about ensuring that law enforcement and social authorities have sufficient knowledge of how honour crimes can be detected and how the situation can then be handled. Knowledge of honour must be in school, and laws and rules must be reviewed so that administrative management is not in danger of endangering people's lives. That is something that we will touch on in the next report that we are going to discuss here today. I would recommend Never forget Pela and Fadimes's website, gapf.se, where d et there are a lot of links to books and movies for those who want to learn more about this. We are also deciding on a few more very important announcements. One is about strengthening criminal law protection for health professionals and strengthening penalties for violence against health care personnel and other vital social functions, which has already been lifted. Another important thing is more stringent penalties for drunk driving and illegal driving. Last autumn I visited Fliseryd, a small town in Småland, where the consequences of ruthless and highly criminal behaviour had become as serious as they could ever be. People lost their lives and several were injured by a person who was convicted of a large number of drunk driving and illegal driving. A person who behaves like that, who repeatedly commits such crimes without respect for the lives and health of others, needs help, and the environment must be protected from this dangerous advance. Prison services are an excellent place to be, not only to serve a severe sentence for the very serious crimes committed but also to be helped to break the pattern of life that endangers others. The events in Fliseryd gave rise to a motion for more stringent penalties in the event of repeated crime of this kind, and the most important spirit of that exercise can well be regarded as being satisfied by making this announcement today. Now it is up to the government to deliver according to Parliament's wishes, which is something that has previously been kept cold-hearted. The Minister of Justice's own party colleague Krister Örnfjäder asked a written question about this – it was prompted by the Fliseryd case – but the answer from Morgan Johansson was that no changes were needed. Madam President, I would like Changes are needed. This is what the Swedish Parliament says today.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-60	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is one of the parties that have chosen not to show support for the Swedish Democrats' proposal on custody judgments. Relapses in crime can be a little different serious, but when it comes to the most serious crimes and the most dangerous individuals in our country and the K. Correctional Service at the time of release after a fixed term sentence makes an assessment that this person is completely lethal and likely to expose people to very great danger to life and health – is it not a good thing that you have the opportunity to extend the time in custody so that this person cannot harm innocent people in society? I would like to put the question to the Center Party: what is your motive for not supporting the proposal on custody judgments?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-63	Madam President, I would like If someone had told me at the beginning of this term of office, in 2014, that there would be a serious danger to the fundamental principles of the liberal rule of law, I would not have taken it very seriously. We see a development in our environment that is not very bright at all. Our neighbours and friends in Europe are doing quite remarkable tours with precisely justice policy and the most fundamental principles of the rule of law. We see how Poland and Hungary dismantle these important principles. The independence of the media and the independent judiciary are being curtailed. In Austria, the Nazi Party gives support to the government, and every person in the law enforcement authorities – managers – is replaced by their own people. This is serious, and it is a trend that we see in Europe and in other parts of the world. Law-enforcement principles are replaced by some kind of inflated populist propaganda game in which our natural and well-founded detestation of serious crimes is used and exploited to come up with one and the other. Sometimes when I meet voters when we hand out flyers or do other things, they ask the question: Why do you not want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats? They may not like the Swedish Democrats, but they still think that it is important to have certain parts that they think should be tightened up in legal policy. I can agree with a lot, but what is important is what the Swedish Democrats may not say – what we can read between the lines about which society we are developing and where Adams's former closest colleague Kent Ekeroth highlights Hungary as an example of a good rule of law. I think that Sweden is a good rule of law, and Sweden should continue to be a good rule of law.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-66	Madam President, I would like I note that the Left Party's Linda Snecker nods in agreement with the speech of the Center Party and, if I may say so, non-answers to the concrete question from the Swedish Democrats as to why it does not support the proposal for a detention sentence. It works in practice in Norway and Denmark, where one can ensure that the most serious criminals do not enter society if there is a very high risk that they will endanger the public or individuals. I may have made a sidestep in my speech, but I think it is very urgent to point out a concrete problem in order to try to make you understand that your criminal policy has actually caused people to lose their lives. Correctional services have made well-founded assessments of the danger of inmates, and then they are right. Time and again, these individuals who have received fixed term sentences have been able to come out after serving only two thirds of the sentence, and then they have murdered people. In the case of a documented dangerous person who recurs in the same type of crime – it may be terrorists or violent men of different kinds – why does it not want to introduce an opportunity for courts to condemn these people to a detention sentence? It is not contrary to any legal principles. The life sentence is different from the punishments for many other serious crimes, and there must be a difference, but with the possibility of a storage sentence, for serious or particularly serious crimes, you can give the rule of law an opportunity to keep people who are very dangerous behind bars so that they cannot come out and kill more people or, for that matter, blow themselves up on Drottninggatan if Kri Minalsvården sees that there is a real risk that it will happen. I am not particularly impressed by Johan Hedin's floating answer regarding the development of the rest of the world. I am more interested in developments in Sweden and how we strengthen the safety of innocent people in our country. Johan Hedin is given a new chance to answer why he thinks it is reasonable to release dangerous people into society.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-71	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we leave justice policy based on fundamental principles of the rule of law. This is something that we have in common in the Alliance, where we work with development. Perhaps this proposal is a good one – perhaps we will analyse it in the future and think it is a good thing. I don't know today. But we are discussing it in an alliance context. I am not discussing this with the Swedish Democrats, because you have another agenda for criminal policy. This is also evident in Adam Marttinen's speech, which takes up personal and very emotional examples. I get a little upset when Adam Marttinen mentions a person I know quite well. It's a party partner of mine, Englas' mother Carina. She would be very angry if she heard that you, Adam Marttinen, are using her name to spread your view of justice policy. She's a center party, not a Swedish democrat. She believes that the Centre Party's legal policy is the one best suited to dealing with the cases she and many others have suffered. In his speech, Adam Marttinen also raised the terrible case of Lotta who was murdered. One should know that Adam Marttinen has a former party colleague– Anna Hagwall – a person who sits on a Swedish Democratic mandate in the Swedish Parliament – who has put forward the least to say remarkable hypothesis that women who are abused in close relationships have to blame themselves. Why does such a person choose the Swedish Democrats as a party to get involved in? And why does Englas choose the Mother Center Party to get involved in? That is something each one should ask himself.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-75	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants disability to be a basis for hate crime. That is not the case today. If you have a disability and have a hate crime against you – a crime, verbally or physically, to which you are subjected only because you have a disability – it does not count as a hate crime. We want to change that. The Left Party wants disability to become a basis for hate crime. It's time for that now. Hate crime is an attack on fundamental human rights and freedoms and an expression of a lack of respect for the equal value of people. The work against hate crimes and legislation in this area is therefore extremely important, as all people should be able to participate in society under the same conditions without being subjected to criminal acts. The Left Party believes that the work against hate crime must be strengthened. There is no single crime called hate crime, but hate crime is a collective concept of crime where the perpetrator's motive for the crime is hatred of individuals or groups of people's presumed ethnicity, national origin or sexual orientation. In 2015, an estimated 6,980 hate crime reports were identified. According to the Crime Prevention Council, xenophobic hate crimes are most common, followed by hate crimes related to sexual orientation. People with disabilities are subjected to violence to the same extent as people with a norm functionality. In many cases it is exploited that the person is dependent on his/her environment and therefore particularly vulnerable. Crimes committed against persons with disabilities are not currently considered to be hate crimes, and Swedish legislation does not provide a basis for, for example, incitement to ethnic groups. On the other hand, disability is a ground of discrimination in the Discrimination Act. However, while the majority of the other grounds for discrimination are already included in the penal laws on incitement to ethnic groups – or in the near future will be included – disability is not covered. The Left Party considers this to be a shortcoming that needs to be addressed. Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish Agency for Participation, 18 percent of women with disabilities between 16 and 29 have stated that they have been exposed to threats or violence. There is a big difference in comparison with women without disabilities. Being a woman and a disabled person means that you are twice the victim, and the risk of crime is particularly high. Then we must have legislation that goes along with it. This is a feminist issue to which we can no longer turn a blind eye. I request the approval of reservation 22.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-83	Madam President, I would like In connection with this report, the Liberals will be calling in particular for the approval of reservations 8 and 25. I will come back to this later in the speech. Honorary oppression is one of the biggest social problems in Sweden. It affects both boys and girls, but it particularly affects girls whose parents, relatives, or brothers want to exercise control over their lives. It's about who you get to spend time with and where you get to study or work, and it can affect who you get to hang out with in your free time. Especially ruthless have the perpetrators proved to be when it comes to who you want to be with and perhaps marry. These outdated values do not belong in our open society, Madam President. However, despite years of speech, play-offs and reactions, we are unfortunately seeing a worrying development that indicates that we now have more and more cases in the country dealing with honour repression. Although the law was tightened in 2014, we believe that it has not been enough and that it needs to be tightened further. We have also been pushing for this for many years. Not infrequently we have been alone on these issues, but now something is happening in politics. Those victims who survive and who actually dare to turn to the judicial system must be able to count on much better treatment and protection than today. What is worrying is that there are still far too few reported cases leading to prosecution and then to convictions. For example, 47 forced marriages were reported in 2015, but not one case led to prosecution. Now I see that more cases are beginning to reach the courts for decisions. It shows how important it is that the prosecutors have competence and that they can follow up and find important parts of the investigations that can hold up to court proceedings. Only in January, I raised this problem in a parliamentary question calling on the government to take action. Although legislative changes take time, the government can for its own part decide to appoint authorities to invest in skills, to review procedures for questioning within the police and to review how the prosecutors and the judiciary act in respect of honour-related crimes. During the last year, the county administrative boards of the country compiled a summary that clearly showed that several municipalities see an increase in complaints and cases concerning honorary repression. Municipalities demand competence. One shortcoming of this investigation was that questions about honour-related violence and oppression were not specifically asked. Instead, it was something that municipalities in twelve different counties themselves chose to highlight in their comments, which has helped us to draw some conclusions from the evidence. We Liberals believe that a number of measures are needed. Investments in skills are needed. There are still shortcomings in the procedures of social services. There is still uncertainty and ignorance in school. But there are also problems in the judicial system. There is not enough knowledge to find and identify markers and information in the investigations. School and social services are very important. This is usually where many young people turn. They turn to student health, counselor or psychologist to tell about their problems. Then there must be a readiness to handle the information, so that – as you still do in some cases – you do not call home and ask the parents. Two years ago, we called for a national survey to review the extent of the problems of honour-related violence and repression. In the autumn of 2016, we noted that the government was in favour of doing a survey, and we welcome that. Since 2014, we from the Liberals have been pushing the issue of introducing a lex Fadime, a special legislation that contains a penalty basis similar to that of the motive for hate crime. In the case of a crime, you should also assess whether the motive is honour related, and then the punishment should be able to be tightened further. We welcome the fact that one of the Liberals' demands today will receive the support of Parliament, hopefully this afternoon. It is a victory for those in my party who for many years have raised the issue of the oppression of honour and the need for tougher measures. We in the Liberals also have another proposal in the report, and that is that more cases should be examined for expulsion if the person is not a Swedish citizen. Unfortunately, we do not get support for our request in this report, but for us the signal should be crystal clear: honour violence, repression, control, not least by women's family members, forced marriages and other ruthless crimes should mean that, if one is convicted and has no citizenship, one should be expelled from the country. That is why we are in favour of our reservation 25. Some final comments on the Bluelight investigation and why we stand behind reservation 8: After many if and but, talk and press conferences, the Social Democrats added an investigation to tighten the penalties for attacks on so-called bluelight personnel and not least on the police. We believe that the interim report presented a few months ago will not lead to an advance of the amendment. My second criticism is that you from the government completely fail to raise the penalty for violence against normal officials. We think that this is a shortcoming, and that is why we are calling for the approval of reservation 8.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-98	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats support the announcements contained in the report, and we support the alliance joint travel movements that several of my colleagues in the Alliance have preferred and highlighted in the debate. Let me just mention something about the announcement that Roger Haddad was talking about. There is now a proposal for a specific criminal classification for crimes with honorary motives. This is something that the Christian Democrats have been pushing for many years. For those who are victims of crimes with honorary motives, it is a great success that the Riksdag today gives a clear signal to the government to return to the Riksdag with a regulated crime classification. Another announcement concerns a high level of criminal law protection for health professionals. The penalty for violence against health care personnel and other vital social functions should be tightened. This announcement is also based on Christian Democratic motions. For attacks and violence against health care personnel and vital social functions, the minimum sentence shall be six months in prison. The announcement is that the government should urgently give the Bluelight investigation an additional assignment to produce legislation accordingly. One issue that has been much discussed is how to stop crimes against emergency vehicles such as fire brigades, police and ambulances. But the problems also occur inside hospitals and at hospital entrances. Several cases have been highlighted. For example, one employee in the Västra Götaland region. Nine per cent of the staff have been subjected to violence or threats of violence at work during 2017. The Sahlgrenska University Hospital last year reported 380 order-related events requiring intervention by security officers. In recent years there have been several serious incidents in the hospital area at Sahlgrenska when patients have been treated for gunshot wounds. Such examples can be seen around the country. It is therefore important to strengthen the criminal protection of health professionals. We want these staff groups to be given stronger protection. Threats and violence against staff should have greater consequences. Of course, health professionals have experience in dealing with complicated patients and fractions that arise in strained situations. It's one thing to have a troublesome patient, but it's another thing to deal with people who want to hurt either the patient or the staff. Today, known troublemakers may be banned in sports events and sentenced to fines or imprisonment if they violate the ban. In this case, the police have the possibility to establish a register of persons with a prohibition of access and to photograph persons who can reasonably be presumed to receive such a register. The Christian Democrats want a similar ban in hospitals. Our proposal means that those who are subject to the ban may only stay in hospital when they are in need of care. Staff must be protected and given the opportunity to do their job in the best possible way, but it is also a question of ensuring the safety of patients. They have the right to safe care. Threats and violence against staff and patients are totally unacceptable and must be stopped. Therefore, in addition to the penalty imposed by the announcement, we also want to introduce a restraining order in hospitals for threatening persons. Violent acts in a hospital can have disastrous consequences for the care of patients and for saving lives. We cannot allow anyone who tries, with threats, to influence the priorities of the staff, who is violently penetrating into treatment rooms or who otherwise threatens staff to stay in hospital. These proposals, of course, are not the whole solution to the problems of insecurity in hospitals. It is through long-term efforts to strengthen civil society, improve the business environment and more early efforts for children that we create a society where everyone can feel secure everywhere. On the other hand, these proposals can contribute to greater security for healthcare professionals and patients here and now. It can't wait. We also want the penalty for violence against officials to be increased, so I would like to endorse reservation 8. In order for this to be effective, Madam President, a strong commitment to the Swedish police is needed to provide the means to prosecute these crimes and to ensure the safety of health professionals who, today in many parts of the country, work under severe pressure and are under threat. Therefore, we should ensure that there is a strong focus on Swedish police. The Garantine for this, Madam President, is a new government that the Christian Democrats are happy to form with the Alliance after the elections.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-111	Madam President, I would like If we are to be honest, Andreas Carlson, the Left Party and the Christian Democrats do not have much in common; we do not. But there's one issue that we've been pushing for about the same amount of time-- that's probably for about ten years-- and that's banning sex purchases abroad. There should not be a sanctuary for men to go to other countries to buy the bodies of women and children. We could have received a proposal to Parliament to ban sex purchases abroad. We would then have had a majority with one vote overweight. But that put a stop to the Christian Democrats. You said no, after you have been pushing this issue for so many years. This led the government to back off the proposal, which is not very positive either. I am, of course, critical of the government, and I am also rather disappointed with the Christian Democrats. You say no. Why are you doing this? Why are you backing away from protecting women and children?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-115	Madam President, I would like We're not backing a centimetre away from protecting women and children. We find sex purchases to be totally unacceptable, regardless of where they take place. That is why we think that the Swedish Sex Purchase Act is good and that it should be exported to more countries. It would be much more effective than criminalising sex purchases abroad, as suggested by Linda Snecker. It is true that the Christian Democrats at a national council in 2009 made a decision that opened up for this. After that, there has been an investigation that goes against the proposal. The Law Council has also criticised the proposal and has warned against its introduction because it violates the principle of double criminality. A number of consultation bodies have also had great concerns about this. Moreover, what has been important is that the police wrote in their referral that they saw difficulties in applying such legislation, which is easy to see. That is why we have decided not to support such a proposal if it is on the table of Parliament. However, it is not the Christian Democrats who sit in the government, and it is not the Christian Democrats in opposition who take responsibility for what the government presents on the table of the Riksdag. Linda Snecker's friends in the government are responsible for that. Of course, I cannot take responsibility for this. That would be a little presumptuous. I do not usually remind the audience of this, but the Christian Democrats are currently the smallest party in the opposition in the Swedish parliament. To attribute such a great importance to us, we must take as recognition from the Left Party. However, the government is, of course, free to present at Parliament's table any proposals it wishes.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-119	Madam President, I would like Of course, I wanted to give the Christian Democrats credit for the impact they have on Swedish politics. Among other things, you have had this by sitting in a government. The Left Party has never done that. On the other hand, we have achieved a great deal of our policy by not sitting in a government. Perhaps that would be a tip to the Christian Democrats in all good sense. I was thinking about what Andreas Carlson said about the Law Council. It is clear that we as legislators should have respect for the Law Council. But the Law Council says no to quite a lot, and the Riksdag and various parties really don't care about it very much. For example, we will soon pass through consent legislation. It says the Law Council no to. The temporary law said the Law Council and, in principle, all the consultation bodies also refused. Yet it was clubbed through. The Council also said no to border controls. However, this reason has not prevented the Christian Democrats before, nor has it stopped you and caused you to back off the policies that you stand for. As a left-winger, I have every respect that you don't have to criminalize too much. I'm usually the one who says no to most of what's about neo-criminalisation and longer punishment. The Christian Democrats have a completely different approach to justice policy. You like criminalization and new laws and you want to push it there. We had a proposal that would have gone through the Swedish parliament where the smallest party in Swedish politics could have changed something quite big. It would have made a historic difference and would probably have allowed us to export the Nordic model of buying sex to other countries. We must protect women and children. Legislation is difficult, but legislation is also willing. Here we politicians must be courageous and willing and bold.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-124	Madam President, I would like I think it is deeply problematic that we in Sweden, within our country's borders, have extensive activities with human trafficking and sex purchases and a police officer who does not have enough resources to work on these issues. When we arrived in the Christian Democrats after discussion in our position we thought and thought that it is important to prioritise what we have the power to do within our country's borders and within the framework of Swedish legislation. We want to tighten the penalties. Together with the Alliance, we want to tighten the penalties for rape of the standard grade so that the minimum penalty is three years up to seven years. We want the police in every police region to have the resources to work for a limited period of time against sex purchases. I have been with the police prostitution group in Stockholm and made study visits. I have seen with my own eyes how this puts many people in a very vulnerable situation. Without going into the details, I was able to see how the police work very well in Stockholm. When this group has been around other parts of the country, they have sometimes also been able to arrest sex buyers in broad daylight. This is something we want to focus on, and this is also where we have the opportunity to do it. The police point out in their referral that the legislation the government had announced would be difficult to apply. That is why, after some consideration, we have come to the conclusion that what we can do is put strength behind the words and work for the benefit of children and women in our country. But of course we will also influence other countries to follow Swedish sex buying law so that these countries can fight sex buying themselves. We did not think that Sweden should do so by using our police in other countries. We will use the resources we have within the borders of our country. This is the background to the fact that we have landed in this position.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-129	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the Committee of Justice has dealt with hundreds of requests for motion which have been received from Members of Parliament during the general period of exercise. This criminal justice report has up to 200 requests for exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The desire for reform in the area of justice policy has been great during the term of office, but also necessary. New societal challenges give rise to the need for criminalisation in certain areas, but criminalised offences may also need to be given new scales of penalties in order to clarify the seriousness of the crime. I would like to devote my speech to sum up what we Social Democrats have achieved during this parliamentary term, but also what will need to be done to strengthen criminal law and justice policy in the coming years. Madam President, I would like According to the police, 23 particularly vulnerable residential areas are characterised by a low socio-economic status. It is believed that criminal gangs there have an impact on the local community and that there are a variety of risk factors that contribute to a lack of confidence in the future, such as concentration of unemployment, high levels of ill health and failure to attend school. It is also in these areas that the feeling of insecurity has increased dramatically in recent years. Just a few years ago, I worked alongside my studies as a leisure manager in one of these residential areas. It is to really understand the challenges of society when you stand there night after night seven days a week for two years. It is an experience that I will carry with me for the rest of my life, especially now that I am able to influence the shape of justice policy. During these two years, I met so many parents and locally involved people who struggled to make things go well for the children. Many took responsibility not only for their own children but also for the children of neighbors and friends. It is so clear in these residential areas that parents want children to have a better future than they have had. That is precisely why they are doing what they can and are able to support and provide guidance. However, I also remember from these years that people didn't have it easy. There were rent increases after renovations. It was sick parents who were insured. There were more parents out of work. I also remember from the last year that up to 30 families with children were being evicted in Tensta. When it was not thought that things could get worse, one after one of the important social institutions left this residential area. Parents could tell me that it was easier to sell drugs than to get a job intermediary or contact person from the administration. I remember how I could feel that society had left the whole task to the locally involved people and parents to try to reverse developments in Tensta. It was these very parents who had the strength to continue, but it is not enough. Madam President, I would like Over the past few years, 40 percent of the deadly violence in Stockholm has taken place in Järva and Tensta, among others. It is striking how social and economic challenges affect recruitment and recruitment to gang crime. It is also striking how grateful the citizens of residential areas are when the police are now acting and strengthening their long-term work and presence there. However, no matter how much the police act, this does not mean getting the particularly criminalised residential areas off the police list. It is not the police themselves that will remove the concentration of economic and social challenges. This requires politics. It requires investment against segregation. This requires housing construction, trend breaks in school results, health care facilities closer to citizens and increased training places. It requires a policy that allows families to afford to live. We need to ensure a labour market policy that prioritises more people coming to work, especially young people, but also that the sick are allowed to be sick without having to be poor for it. It requires all social institutions to be involved in reversing this trend. Now, if I am going to sum up what we have achieved in this parliamentary term, that will be a great deal. I will mention some of those things, especially how we have tried to reverse perceived insecurity and bring about change through results. In the area of criminal law, we have carried out more than 30 penalties in this parliamentary term related to organised crime. These include drug offences, gross illegal threats, gross blackmail, legal abuse, gross and extremely serious assault, gross illegal coercion, aggravated robbery and serious gun crime. We are abolishing the penalty rebate for 18 – 20-year-olds, so that no older criminals can take advantage of younger ones. We are also investigating enhanced criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other socially useful functions. Aggravated violence against civil servants should mean higher penalties. In addition to this, we are now implementing the biggest investment in the police force in over 20 years of a total of 7.1 billion in three years. We also expand the training places and open two new police colleges, one in Malmö and one in West Sweden. In addition to this, we have made the necessary penalties in other areas where we have seen major challenges. We are tightening up the penalties for genital mutilation and forced marriage. We have set up an investigation to see how we can bring in honorary motives as aggravating circumstance. We now also foresee that the ban on child marriage in Sweden will be extended. We will later in ours stick through a historic change in Swedish rape legislation, which is a pride that many can carry with them. In addition, we are now proposing the introduction of a new detention order that allows for detention regardless of the scale of the offence if there is a risk that the suspect will continue his criminal activity. He cannot thereby carry on with his recurring crime. This, I mean, can affect what is mentioned in one of the opinions included in the report, which concerns illegal driving, recurrent drunk driving and minor drug offences. Now we also have an ongoing cross-block dialogue on combating terrorism. We have criminalised terrorist travel. We have achieved more comprehensive legislation on terrorism. We are now looking at how we can limit the funding and reception of education and criminalise participation in terrorist organisations. We also intend to continue the cross-block talks in this area and to achieve more. It sounds to some here like we Social Democrats would be happy. We're not. But we can already see some trend breaks as a consequence of our policy. Police have been gathering for some time against criminal networks to reduce the number of shootings. The number of police workers in particularly vulnerable residential areas has increased, and although there is still a great deal of work to be done, we can see statistically that shootings are decreasing. Car fires are falling. There's an increase in the prosecuting rate. The detention centres have 98 percent occupancy. The number of cases from the police to the Prosecutor's Office has increased. Most importantly, however, confidence in the judiciary in areas particularly affected by crime has increased. I think this is the most important signal we can send from Parliament to these areas. But of course, this is not just about the police's important efforts during this time. It is also a question of youth unemployment falling in particularly vulnerable areas. In Tensta and Järva, I can proudly say that youth unemployment has fallen by over 24% in four years. I can also see that more people choose education – vocational training, Komvux and higher education in higher education and universities – and that the higher education institutions are closer to the locals. For the first time in a long time, school results have changed in schools with the greatest challenges. I have made two visits to the social action groups in Stockholm, and more and more have come to sign up for help to leave a destructive life. We are not finished with the work of justice policy or, for that matter, with criminal law. We have only just begun, and we intend to continue with the same momentum.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-148	Madam President, I would like Lawen Redar describes what the Social Democrats have achieved during their term of office and mentions areas that are vulnerable or particularly vulnerable to serious crime. I would like to ask a question that is perhaps mostly rhetorical, because I really do not think that Lawen Redar can answer it: how many of the measures that Lawen Redar has listed depend fundamentally on initiatives from other parties or on parliamentary announcements? I understand that the government parties often do not reserve for what there is an obvious majority for. But you've been working against it for as long as you can. I have another escape with regard to the affected areas. In my main speech, I mentioned the problem of drugs. In fact, I find it a little surprising that none of the other parties have any initiatives in the field of drugs. This also applies to parties that have a very high tone, such as the Swedish Democrats. I can refer to Stefan Löfven, who raised the issue of drugs in the party leader debate in SVT almost a year ago. He said: Drugs are a cursed poison in our society. It destroys human lives, takes human lives and fattens gang crime. We need to do much more to prosecute drug offences and eliminate drugs. The Prime Minister also mentioned the need to increase penalties and to put an end to those who offer young people free drugs. Get rid of the drugs from Sweden! But what do the Social Democrats do? What has the government done about drug crime?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-153	Madam President, I would like As Mr Anti Avsan knows, we have a parliamentary situation in which it is possible to make more announcements than before. But this is our legal policy. Anti Avsan can also read our criminal policy programme, which was developed long before we held the government power; that is where we are now sitting and ticking off our own policy in this area. A great deal has happened during this parliamentary term, which gives rise to even more policy. I am pleased that several alliance parties support the policies being pursued and help to secure a better criminal law and a safer Sweden. In the case of drug offences, we have carried out some punitive measures during this term of office. We have also removed the penalty discount for young people. These two measures combined, I believe, can strengthen the work on drugs. But I'm not closing any doors here. Of course, there should be more transparency and transparency about how we can strengthen the work on drugs. I also share the view that gang crime can clearly be linked to drug-related crimes, especially in the crime-prone residential areas. I am very pleased that the police are carrying out raids and are acting strongly in these areas to remove both weapons and drugs. In this way, we can secure security.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-155	Madam President, I would like The legal policy programme, the first presented by the Social Democrats in 18 years, I read very carefully when it came. The brief conclusion of what I read was that most of the proposals were those that depended on investigations that had already been set up by the Alliance government. Then there were also a lot of suggestions about things where the Moderates had already proposed the same thing. I am, in itself, very pleased that the Social Democrats have come to realize in many respects and are about on the same foot as many of the other parties. It's good for Sweden. However, in relation to drugs, following Stefan Lövven's very clear position in SVT's party leader debate, I think it is a little strange that there is nothing to say but to refer to the legislation on extremely serious drug offences. After all, we from the Committee on Justice wrote that the government should closely monitor the development of case law and come back if the level of penalties continues to be at the same level as after the Supreme Court's so-called mephedron judgment. So far, we cannot see any changes. There is reason to ensure that we are actually at the front line in the field of drugs in this country. It's about reducing the amount. Then it must be severely penalised if you sell large quantities of drugs or deal with large quantities of drugs, which ultimately lead to bad death and people get hurt. I think it would be nice for the government to actually refer to something concrete after the Prime Minister has made such a clear move.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-159	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister is, of course, to react strongly to drug offences and the developments we see related to drug offences in socially and economically disadvantaged residential areas. This also applies to the gang crime that has been related to this in recent years. Anti Avsan does not mention, of course, that we have implemented penalties for drug offences, no later than 2016. So it is a penalty that has come about. In addition, I think it is even more important that we now ensure that the police can continue with the pool of forces they make. This applies in particular to those working in external service in the crime-prone neighbourhoods. It's about continuing raids – it's called that, but I think it's more like trying to get drugs and weapons out of these areas. That is where the work must be emphasised and carried out. Then it is clear that it will also have major consequences to carry out this type of activity. We are closing, as I said, no doors, but right now we have a penalty. We have also ensured that the police will continue the work that is being done in these areas to get to work. It is this work that we want to see clear results from the current Police Authority.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-162	Madam President, I would like During its term of office, the government has made many important changes in the area of criminal law. We have adapted the legislation to new challenges in terms of threats and hate and crimes committed via the Internet. We have tightened up legislation in the area of terrorism and adapted it to the challenges facing us and many other countries today. We are fighting serious organised crime with new types of criminalisations and more stringent penalties in the field of weapons offences, in order to get the shootings off the street. But we also do so – and perhaps most importantly – with coordinated efforts, where the police cooperate with other authorities and societal actors to strangle the funding of the serious criminals. The most important change in the area of criminal law comes in the spring when we introduce a law of consent. The obvious principle that every person, every woman, has the right to decide over their own body should finally, after years of debate, become law in Sweden. In the area of honour, we have tightened up a number of penalties but also started investigations to enable us to introduce what several people have been talking about today and which the Green Party has been running for several years, namely a special penalty base. Because it is simply more serious to threaten or abuse because of honor motives. The victim is not only affected by the abuse itself, but also by the social pressure of those who should bring security: family and relatives. It is particularly serious, and it particularly affects young people, mainly women. In its worst form, it may be about being married abroad or even murdered. But criminal policy is for us more than just criminal law. For us, it is about having preventive work and concrete measures to be carried out in each municipality and by every authority to prevent crime from being committed right there. It is about knowledge about men's violence against women, which should be found in all those who attend law school. It is a question of providing assistance to victims when they have been exposed and also throughout the legal process, so that they dare to participate and so that we get convictions. And it is about the great work that this government is doing to create good living conditions for all people. For us, the vision is that every young guy in Sweden should have his picture of the future in a workplace and not a crime scene. We are working to ensure that weapons, drugs and other contraband do not enter Sweden by strengthening customs. And we are making the historically biggest investment in Swedish police. This is a policy that fights crime, which lays down basic standards in Swedish legislation and creates the conditions for all people to feel safe. It is also about people being sure that their children have a future where they do not need to be exposed to crime or choose to become criminals instead of having their education and getting a regular job. I think there are many interesting proposals in today's report. I'm very happy about the consensus on crimes of honor. I think it is wise for us to look at how we can prevent the recurrence of serious traffic offences. I also think it is important, as the Center Party, for example, has highlighted in this report, that many parties now stand up because we need to tighten up our view of violence against children. The Green Party wants children who experience domestic violence, when relatives are exposed, to receive greater support and the status of plaintiff, i.e. victim, in real life. I am very pleased that the government has put forward a proposal for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become a law and that work on children's rights in this regard too is now continuing with the review announced by the Government. I also think there are other interesting suggestions about hate crimes and more. I believe that the government, with its great wisdom, will handle our fellow citizens in the best way possible. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-174	Madam President, I would like In Norway and Denmark there is the possibility of a detention sentence, i.e. that people can be sentenced to custody for crimes that do not lead to a life sentence. For serious crimes, therefore, you can be sentenced to storage. It gives the rule of law an opportunity to keep people in prison if they are considered to be dangerous to the public or to individuals when they are released. In Sweden, this possibility does not exist. Correctional services may have made the assessment that an individual is dangerous, but the rule of law has had no opportunity to keep the person in prison, but one has had to release the person in question, and so many people have suffered serious crimes. As I have explained in my speech, there are people who have died as a result of this lack of opportunities to protect society from dangerous individuals. The government has no proposal in relation to custody judgments, but only the Swedish Democrats in opposition have chosen to highlight this proposal in the motion for a resolution on criminal matters. I have a question. When well-documented dangerous persons who have been convicted of very serious crimes, but not for life, are to be released and the Prison Service makes a qualified assessment that they are, frankly, dangerous – how does the government reason? How can you handle this situation better than letting them out into society so that these dangerous individuals can murder and maim people?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-178	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to remind you that the life sentence does not exist in Norway. Terrorist Anders Behring Breivik could not be sentenced to life in Norway. This, of course, would not have been the case here. There is a fundamental difference between the Norwegian and Swedish regulations for, among other things, terrorist offences. When I read Adam Marttinen's motion that people should be kept indefinitely for the future, I do not really understand what crimes this should apply or who should make the assessment and on what grounds. If so, how do we ensure that there is legal certainty? What Adam Marttinen is talking about is not about judging people for serious crimes that they have committed, but about judging people for crimes that they may be in danger of committing in the future. It's an incredibly tricky thing to decide because we're not sitting with fortune-telling balls. How do we get legal certainty in a system that is based on seeing about the future? For me, it is crucial that we draw up a criminal law in which we sentence to proportionate penalties on the basis of committed crimes which can be proved and prosecuted with procedural guarantees in a court. The proposals of the Swedish democrats do not meet those criteria. I would also like to say a few words about the situations in which women are murdered, even though they have sought help from society. When society fails in this way, we take action. I'll have to come back to this in the next line.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-182	Madam President, I would like Just as Annika Hirvonen Falk says, we have not chosen to specify exactly what types of crimes should be included in this or in what situations a storage judgment should be applicable. Since we have not specified it, the criticism that we do not live up to the principles of the rule of law or the like is irrelevant. An investigation will review this, and you will find very well-founded reasons for using storage judgments. These may, for example, be terrorists who have returned from Syria and Iraq and, as is known, have committed very serious crimes but where we do not have legislation in Sweden to convict these people for individual crimes. Such a person could later, for example, be convicted of preparing for a terrorist crime, a crime usually leading to five years in prison. However, if there is a well-founded suspicion that the person in question after serving a sentence continues to pose a threat to Sweden on the basis of a terrorist motive, one could in such a case judge the person for preparation for a terrorist offence, with a custody sentence. Then, of course, the Prison Service and other bodies will decide how dangerous the person is. Obviously, the Prison Service has a good competence to make such an assessment. We can see concrete cases where the Prison Service has made such assessments and where one has also been right when one has said that some people after serving sentences are likely to attack and perhaps kill more women. I therefore believe that there is a good opportunity to strike a well-founded balance in the use of storage judgements. This would give the rule of law an opportunity to protect people from dangerous individuals, something that is missing today and which unfortunately in the worst cases and in many cases results in death, even in Sweden. I do not think that one should focus on concerns about the possible flaws of storage judgment, but I think that one should focus on the possibility of the future: how do we make our society more secure for people living in society? How do we protect them from dangerous individuals? There, storage judgment inspired by Norway and Denmark can be an alternative to strengthening the safety of ordinary people.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-187	Madam President, I would like I get cold when I hear this. Is it irrelevant to discuss legal certainty when proposing this type of far-reaching lock-in of people? Is it irrelevant, according to the Swedish Democrats? Adam Marttinen says that well-founded suspicion should be the basis for locking people up. In Sweden, the principle is that a person is convicted when, without reasonable doubt, in a legally secure trial before a court can establish that the person has committed a crime. It becomes so clear that the Swedish Democrats do not stand up for fundamental principles of the rule of law.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-190	Madam President, I would like I'll ask Annika Hirvonen Falk about the same thing I asked Lawen Redar. I hear from Annika Hirvonen Falk's speech that she says: We are working to ensure that drugs do not enter Sweden. But what work is being done, and what does the Green Party stand for when it comes to drugs that have already come in? Unfortunately, we can't stop everything at the border. I think this question will be a bit interesting, because Annika Hirvonen Falk has a party colleague who has opened up for legalisation. He says that the criminal gangs have become more violent, indicating that the policies we have pursued have not worked. In any case, there is someone in the Green Party who sees the link between drugs and violence in the suburbs, in the particularly vulnerable areas and in the vulnerable areas. However, the solution should not be to impose more severe penalties or such, but rather to eliminate illegal sales with legal sales of drugs, which preparations are unclear. One might think that this is about cannabis, and I really hope that he has not thought about the sale of heavier drugs too. I think this is an intellectual meltdown, but obviously there are still such views in the Green Party. To me, the problem is clearly the opposite. After the Supreme Court reduced the penalty to about half for certain narcotic drugs, the risk is much lower for these people. They come out twice as fast and can continue their drug sales. Any attempt to compete with so-called legal sales for a sale that is to be illegal worldwide, which is the basis of the United Nations Conventions on Drugs, has not worked anywhere else. What is Annika Hirvonen Falk's view of this?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-195	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk's line and the Green Party's line is that what is currently criminalised should continue to be criminalised. We do not want to legalise the use of cannabis or have any kind of legal sale. I know that there are individual Members both in my party and in other parties who have such ideas, and it naturally stems from a common ambition to overcome the violence that is also the result of the criminality in which drugs occur. The Green Party's line is that we should combat drugs, for example, through the type of police intervention that we now see in the Stockholm area, for example. There the police are gathering strength against the spread and sale of narcotic drugs and also against the crime that exists around them and as a result. It is also important for us, in addition to the efforts on customs and the police, to ensure that all drugs of this type are controlled. There, the government has also taken steps to get a faster classification of narcotic drugs. In my last line shift, I promised a few more words about men's violence against women. I would like to refer to the government's national strategy in this area with far-reaching proposals to address the problems of many women being afraid to report.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-199	Madam President, I would like Where are the proposals? It was about faster classification. The issue of family classification of drugs has been discussed on and off, and there is a study that has also shown that such classification may not be introduced because it is not always possible to say with sufficient certainty what is punishable. It's not really a problem. There is the possibility of taking action. But there are no other proposals in the field of drugs. Here both Lawen Redar and Annika Hirvonen Falk, who represent the parties in the government, say that they do a lot in the field of drugs, but there are no proposals. There is nothing either that responds to what I think is perfectly reasonable. Let us look at the question of the dangers of drugs. It is not reasonable for the Supreme Court to read a newspaper article in an American, British or German newspaper and then, on the basis of it, it becomes uncertain how dangerous narcotics are. It has been clearly stated in previous investigations that one of the most important tasks of the National Institute for Public Health is to classify drugs and say how dangerous it is. There's evidence from all over the world. This is a problem. The Supreme Court considers the danger of drugs to be a question of proof. However, if evidence is not produced, one can rely on what is generally known. It would be a much better system to actually start from a scientific assessment of the dangers of drugs. There is an opportunity to return according to what we have written in our reservation on drug crime. There are also a number of other good proposals there.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-204	Madam President, I would like Anti Avsan is asking for suggestions. I do not know whether the draft budgets have gone beyond him, our previous proposals to strengthen the police, which are now being further built upon, or our new proposals on customs spending and the previous proposals on drug offences and so on. They have been presented, and several of them have already been discussed in the Riksdag. Police work on drugs has been reinforced. In many parts of Sweden we also see results. I have great confidence in those who work in the Swedish police. I would also like to refrain from reviewing the reasoning of the Supreme Court, although it is of course always relevant to discuss which legislation should exist and whether legislation needs to be changed.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-207	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am, of course, in favour of all moderate and alliance reservations, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 2. Much of the criminal policy and debate in this House focuses on the crimes and measures to prevent, prevent and manage crime. These are gang shootings, serious organised crime and international theft gangs, which we are now looking at across the country. It is also a question of the police and other law enforcement authorities having more resources and greater powers. The debate is largely about the perpetrators and what measures we should take against these perpetrators. One of society's most important tasks is to protect people from crime. But sometimes we fail – unfortunately. This failure has the greatest consequences when it comes to various forms of violent crime. Behind every violent crime is always a victim. A fellow human being has been subjected to a serious violation, with which he sometimes has to live his whole life and which sometimes also affects friends and family – which can also have consequences. It is support for these people rather than for the perpetrators that today's debate on violent crimes and victims of violence should be about. I would particularly like to highlight two topics in the report that I consider to be urgent, on the one hand the honour-related violence and repression, and on the other hand the support that society should provide to victims of crime. Madam President, I would like Assessing the extent of honour-related violence and repression is difficult. It is often surrounded by a culture of silence. The UN Population Fund UNFPA estimates that at least 5,000 women and girls are killed every year by honour-related violence. One sixth of the deaths are in Pakistan. It is therefore a question of more than 12 women being killed every day – one every two hours – in the name of the culture of honour. Those are terrible numbers. When it comes to forced marriage, the situation is even worse. It's about up to 40,000 girls actually being married away every day around the world. In Sweden, unfortunately, a modern and good mapping of the honour-related repression is lacking. A few years ago, however, a survey showed that about 5 percent – about 70,000 – of young people aged 16 to 25 perceive limitations in choosing their own partner. It was estimated that up to 8,500 were in danger of being married away. The characteristic of honour-related violence is that it is usually carried out jointly or collectively, and the perpetrators are usually men. It's about fathers, brothers and relatives. Ultimately, it is a matter of pointing out that religion, culture and the need for control used to restrict other people's freedom do not belong in Sweden. If we really are serious about freedom and security applying to all people in Sweden, we must also take more action against honour-related repression. In this context, I would like to mention three examples of possible measures. Firstly, more knowledge and better tools are needed in the rule of law in order to prosecute honour-related crimes. It may be that there is a need for more specialised police and prosecutors to deal with the honour-related crimes, and we also need to strengthen the police's mandate to conduct interviews with young people who are victims of honour-related crimes. Secondly, better coordination between authorities is needed to deal with honour problems. The reason is that we know that it is usually teachers, nurses or curators who are the first point of contact for those who are exposed to honour-related problems. They are often the ones who pick up the first signals, not the police. Effective collaboration between the social services, the police and the school is crucial to tackling honour-related crime. Thirdly, there is also a need for more and clearer mandatory social orientation to newcomers about the rights and obligations that apply, for example, to child rearing, gender equality and honorary issues in Sweden. If we do not do that orientation, we risk passing it on to others in society, not least the children. Madam President, I would like Let me also say a few words about support in society for victims from a slightly broader perspective. The starting point must be that criminal policy should be characterised by a clear victim perspective. All victims of a crime must be given the help and support they need. This is particularly true if a witness is to be given at a later stage. We now see a tendency for more and more people to fear witnessing because of threats and reprisals. It is, of course, a threat to the whole of the rule of law. It is therefore crucial that witness protection is strengthened by more protective measures than is currently the case, including more information to witnesses before trial and the police further developing work on risk and threat assessments. However, it is also important that the victim of a crime should receive more information and clearer feedback to the police, both on how a preliminary investigation is progressing and on the reasons why an investigation is closed. There's a flaw today. Finally, Madam President, the level of compensation for the offence of the victim needs to be doubled. It is reasonable that the increased compensation should be paid primarily by the person who committed the crime, but the State may also have to provide funds. Basically, the violation suffered by a victim has to be valued significantly higher, and this is a sign on the part of society that this should be the case.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-222	Madam President, I would like This report also addresses the crime of honour, which we talked about quite a lot in the previous debate. Today, the possibility of questioning children who may have been victims of crime is limited without telling the guardians. If a child is exposed to honour-related crime, there is a considerable risk that the child's situation will deteriorate if the family finds out about the interrogation. We write in the report that the government should therefore consider making it possible to postpone or refrain from informing guardians of the questioning of children suspected of having been the victim of crime if it is liable to impair the child. Madam President, I would like We need a stronger victim perspective in Swedish law policy. Perhaps there is an ideological difference based on how one views the relationship between state, individual and collective on this issue. I remember the first debate I took part in as a legal spokesperson. It was the autumn of 2014, and it was the victims' shelters that arranged the whole thing. It was also in the same debate that the then Minister for Home Affairs, Anders Ygeman, promised to change the pre-trial decree so that it would be a clearer responsibility for the police to refer to the crime victims' hotlines. This has not yet happened. The term of office is not quite over yet, but this was promised in autumn 2014. It's time to deliver, or we'll have to do it in the fall. When I and the moderator had our background discussion before the debate, the moderator said something to me which I then thought about quite a bit. He said these aren't such ideological issues. We who work with legal policy think quite equally – we want to do good things. And yes, sometimes we end up in the same factually political conclusions, although the roads there may be very different. In our committee we see examples of this in almost every report. It is agreed to implement something across block borders and ideological boundaries along with parties with which one does not share a thing in terms of reality or motives. But the lines of thought and the roads there are highly ideological. There are, for example, differences in how we view the authorities of the judiciary. Is it society or is it the individual? Take, for example, shoplifting. A person who one day is arrested at his tenth theft is rarely prosecuted for more than three or four of these thefts, for then one comes up in such a penalty value that society can be considered to have been restored. The problem for those who, like me, have a liberal view of justice policy is that victims of crime five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten get no redress. I believe that in general, like many other parts of the legal area, punishment has had a different, perhaps more socialist perspective in Sweden, although the basis is the liberal idea of the rule of law. As we saw in the previous debate's shift in line between me and the Swedish Democrats, it is an idea that seems increasingly important to defend when we see what is happening in the outside world. In that debate we also received a lesson in ideology, perhaps with the goat as a gardener. When the Swedish Democrats explain liberal ideology, liberalism is considered to be the root of much of evil. But the very idea of the individual as a legal entity is liberal. That's it. And when the Swedish Democrats propose more policemen, longer sentences, harder batons and so on, they do so for a different reason than the Center Party, the other alliance parties and almost all other parties. We want more police because we want more security while the Swedish Democrats want more police because they want more police. My dear friends and Madam President. No police state is a safe state. It is a state based on liberal legal principles that provides the greatest security, and it shows the example of history so incredibly clearly. Although some highlight individual examples and play a role in people's outrage over serious crimes, we need to legislate on the basis of principles. Something else is a bit like going shopping when you're hungry: You come home with a lot of things that you didn't want to buy. It is exactly the same with legislation, and I can tell everyone who intends to vote this autumn that it is exactly the same when voting. Keep your head cool, and look at what the parties really stand for and what the consequences are of different things! However, this report deals with violent crimes and victims of crime, and on the part of the Center Party we have several important proposals in this area. Among other things, we want to make life a little easier for those who have been subjected to serious crimes and also for the survivors of people who have been murdered. The perp's leave or release can cause much concern and, in some cases, fear. Nevertheless, the victim often does not know when release or leave will take place. I would like it to be reviewed how victims of serious crime and relatives of victims of violence can receive support when a perpetrator is given leave or released. Support for victims of violence in close relationships must also be strengthened. It can be difficult for victims to take the step of reporting violence in a close relationship. In order for the police reporter to feel safe, the reporter needs to receive victim support in no m one day from the police report. In some cases the police victim section, witness protection, takes care of the need for protection. Protection could be increased if the Victims' Section also took over parts of the social services' responsibilities in this process. When victims feel safe, they can more easily get out of their plight and hopefully testify against those who have done them so badly. There is also reason to look at the regulatory framework for damages. I have exercised in the past that it will be easier for victims of crime to obtain the compensation they have been awarded. This report also contains a developed proposal for a specific type of situation, namely the one where a convicted offender has a debt to his victim and is suddenly given the means by which the offender himself receives compensation for crimes to which he has been subjected. In that situation, it should be possible to foreclose before the damages are paid, otherwise there is a great risk that the first victim will never see the smoke of the funds that actually exist and could be foreclosed. This is based on an actual case, which was raised in the previous debate's change of line. A friend of mine who has suffered a terrible crime uses her experience to bring in good suggestions for improvements, and she can provide firsthand information on how it works and how it could work better. I did not reach all the way to the majority on this one. However, my picture in the last year of the term of office is that good proposals actually have a tendency to get to the end but that you have to nag about them a little bit. We have to continue to work on this important subject, primarily to ensure that as few as possible are exposed to crime but also to make life easier for those who, after all, are affected. I am in favour of all these proposals and of the other C and A reservations, but for time I am abstaining.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-242	Madam President, I would like The children are our future. It's probably the truest cliché there is, because that's actually the case. They're our future. But when children get caught, the truth doesn't always apply anymore, because then children are often treated under any criticism. This is often the case in the legal process and when children become victims of crime. When the victim is a child, it must be ensured that the best interests of the child are paramount and that the judiciary and other parts of society that can be involved in the process take a child-oriented approach. The Left Party therefore wants to take a holistic approach to the specific needs of children in the legal process, the support and protection measures that need to be improved and how the issue can be developed. There are good examples, but there are also far too many bad examples where children have definitely not been treated as our future, but as something you don't have to worry about at all. Barnahus is a good example. Barnabas is a safe and child-friendly environment where children suspected of being abused are at the heart of the investigation process. There are police, doctors, prosecutors and staff from BUP. The Left Party believes that as far as possible, it should be avoided that a child is passed around between different authorities and that children should not have to repeat their history for several different people. The Left Party is clearly pushing the question that children who have experienced violence in close relationships, such as when a father in a family has beaten a mother, should receive plaintiff status. With today's legislation, the child is only a victim. We know that children who experience and see violence are hit as hard as it is the child who has been beaten. It is therefore very reasonable for both the child and the mother to acquire the right to sue after the crime has taken place. This would also increase legal protection and support for the child and allow the child to receive compensation. This is having a victim perspective for real. Madam President, I would like There must be a clearer children's perspective throughout the legal process. It must never fall. We see pre-trials that take time. A uniform threat and risk assessment manual is needed. The criminal compensation system for children works badly, and the online hatred is widespread – yes, there is simply a lot to do to strengthen children's rights in the legal process. Let's start with that now. I request the approval of reservation 13.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-249	Madam President, I would like Crime must have consequences. This is crucial to redressing victims. One of the most important measures to achieve this is a strong investment in Swedish police. We have proposed 10 000 more police officers and increased salaries to stop so many choosing to end up as police officers. We want to improve the working conditions of police officers in external service. It is a central and important part of being able to take the victim's perspective and to be able to support victims and give them redress. There must also be more convictions. Today, gang criminals go free in our streets because people have not dared to testify. Witnesses are frightened to silence. About a year ago, a family in Staffanstorp testified against a criminal gang. They did their duty as citizens of society. A 27-year-old criminal ended up behind bars, partly because of their testimony. In February, the answer came from the criminal gang: A bomb exploded outside the family home. This is how criminal gangs try to establish an alternative legal order where violence takes precedence and where culture of silence spreads at the expense of victims and all law-abiding people living in our country. Therefore, the Christian Democrats want to introduce anonymous witnesses. Madam President, I would like Many victims testify to the difficulty of obtaining damages and that the violation after the crime is thus even greater. It must be easier for victims to obtain compensation. Today it is a very complicated process for those affected by this. The Christian Democrats have suggested in the report that it is the state that should take responsibility and pay the compensation to the victim and that the state should also recover and recover the amount from the offender. This is one way to strengthen support for victims and to take the victim's redress seriously. That is why I am in favour of reservation 15. Of course, I support the announcement made by my friends in the Alliance and the other reservations that we support, but I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 15.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-254	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson and Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-257	Madam President, I would like Then it finally came, the rural bill, after three and a half years! The disappointment was, of course, great when it turned out that it does not contain a single concrete proposal for a more vibrant countryside. There is only one proposal for a decision, and that is to adopt a general objective of a viable rural environment. The goal is laudable, but beautiful target formulations are not enough. Concrete proposals are needed, and unfortunately they are lacking. The few times that the government has actually been concrete are proposals that hit the countryside. One example is the mileage tax, which affects rural businesses. It also affects the bioeconomy, which is important for the transition to a more sustainable society and for a more vibrant countryside. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : How does the government's kilometre tax contribute to the goal of a more vibrant countryside?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-259	Madam President, I would like We have not put forward a proposal for a kilometre tax. On the other hand, we have put forward a bill with lots of concrete measures. I'll take the opportunity to account for them. They have a lot of focus on entrepreneurship, business and jobs. We will allocate SEK 1.5 billion for the next two years in 2019 and 2020, and then there will be SEK 400 million. These are concrete measures: digitisation of rural businesses, technological development in rural businesses, production equipment for rural businesses and better financing for rural businesses. We also invest in innovation and strengthen Vinnova's incubation programme for rural companies. We are also investing in educational measures, such as remote teaching, so that the village schools can be maintained and the quality of teaching there improved. We invest 22 million in concrete measures for culture in Swedish rural areas. It is full of concrete measures that the government will take after this bill has been put here in Parliament.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-262	Madam President, I would like The concrete proposals now mentioned by the Minister, which are therefore not included in the rural proposal itself, are simply about compensating for the damaging policies that the government has pursued during this term of office, with worse conditions for businesses and for people living and working in rural areas. What is needed is reduced taxes, reduced regulatory burdens and better communications. For all of this, another government is required.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-263	Madam President, I would like Is it really worse, for example, to invest in transport aid covering the food sector as well? Is it worse that investments are also made in Norrland agriculture? Is it worse that we are expanding broadband in a mass billion investment throughout Sweden? I think that these are really investments in rural areas. Is it worse for us to make sure that the country merchants are still here? We've even stopped shop death.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-265	Madam President, I would like Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll told us on Sunday's Agenda that the previous alliance government had secured nearly 100,000 individuals. What Strandhäll did not say, however, was that the current government has reached the same level in virtually half the time. The government said that the purpose of abolishing the longer deadline was that no persons on sick leave would be insured. At the same time, it now emerges that the government has pursued a tougher policy than the alliance government when looking at the number of insured. Data are available on a refusal rate and on salary increases for employees of Försäkringskassan who reject more applications. Do you believe in the government that you have succeeded in a sustainable policy of rehabilitation for sick leavers if you pursue a tougher policy than the Alliance and are already allowing vulnerable people to suffer your cost savings?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-267	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating to hear Julia Kronlid ask me this question, given that the only policy that the Swedish Democrats want to support with regard to health insurance is to reintroduce the longer time limit in health insurance, so that people who need to be on sick leave have a more distant limit. It is the policy that you wish to pursue with the bourgeois parties, which intends to introduce another Karen's Day into health insurance. How many Swedes think this is an attractive policy, do you think? You and the bourgeois parties left behind you a sick absence that had risen by 70 percent. There were 100,000 people who had been insured and rotated in the insurance several times. There had been cost increases in the multibillion - dollar class. It's not all perfect. People should be given the support they need. We are renovating health insurance step by step. Stand by your politics!
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-270	Madam President, I would like Now it sounds like Strandhäll means we were in the alliance government. We didn't. But I hope we can sit in a government in the future. We do not want to go back to the policy of the Alliance. I want to be clear about that. On the other hand, it is clear that it is not a distant time limit to be or not to be that determines how many are secured. It is quite clear that the government has secured more than the alliance government did. The important thing we want to emphasise is a strong rehabilitation chain.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-273	Madam President, I would like You have a clear proposal in this area, Julia Kronlid. You in the Swedish Democrats have even made an announcement, together with the bourgeois parties, to reintroduce the lower time limit in health insurance and to introduce another withdrawal day into our health insurance. We work for low and stable health rates and for people to get the support they need.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-275	Madam President, I would like Being poor and outside is hard. Feeling that you can't do much about it is probably even more difficult. Moreover, feeling that one's own situation is likely to be inherited by one's child must be among the toughest things one can face as a parent. For this reason, the Liberals have put forward proposals for compulsory language education for those who come to the country. Newly arrived children and newly arrived children should have the opportunity to learn Swedish, attend preschool, be showered by the Swedish language, meet the Swedish language and meet Swedish friends.
i-AgQCdii2hZbqxMaCga1EVX	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Christer Nylander! I am happy to report what we are doing, which has led us to see that more new arrivals are leaving comprehensive school with eligibility for upper secondary school. This applies not only to the language, i.e. the grade in Swedish you need, but also to grades in enough other subjects to get that vital ticket. Among other things, it is about strengthening the right to study guidance, so that you can read several subjects at the same time, about having increased teaching in Swedish when you come and about ensuring that there are enough teachers who can carry out teaching. For those who arrive early, preschool plays a huge role. I made an agreement with SKL two weeks ago to have more open preschools with Swedish education for parents, which is of course extremely important for children's Swedish education – that they enter preschool. I am also fully prepared to look at the proposal made by the Liberals. Early Swedish education is good for children, and early Swedish education is good for their parents.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-280	Madam President, I would like Many young people attend preschool today, but those who need preschool the most are those who are not there very often. That is why the Liberals are now proposing a compulsory language preschool for new arrivals – to give them the chance to meet the Swedish language as early as possible. They should be given the chance to learn the Swedish language as early as possible so that they can then complete comprehensive school and get on to the labour market when they become adults. It is crucial to do these things now that we have many new ones in Sweden. Many new people really need this. That is why it is a shame, Madam President, that the government has not yet tabled this proposal.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-282	Madam President, I would like We've done a lot. That is why we now see that the results for newly arrived students are rising. We will have to do more, and that is why I am not dismissing the proposal made by the Liberals yesterday. So it took three and a half years of this parliamentary term for you to come up with this proposal, Christer Nylander, and I am not dismissing it the next day. However, one of the things that we have done and that we see can make a big difference is this open preschool where parents, not least mothers, who need to get into the labour market receive Swedish education while the children are on their way into preschool.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-285	Madam President, I would like We have Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and personal information that no one knows who it is being spread to. We have an election campaign that is predicted to be the hardest ever. We see that online online hatred and vulnerability is very large, especially among young women. The Internet has many pages which, unfortunately, are not always very positive, and we must provide better protection for all of us. Gustav Fridolin! Is it not time to introduce a network ombudsman?
i-UBtSf5ckyBs7LAqrBSuimf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Linda Snecker! I think the most important thing is that in every part of the Swedish police authority there is competence to investigate the crimes on the internet. There has been far too much lawlessness. What is completely illegal off-line has suddenly become legal online, at least in the sense that when someone reports an outright threat, hatred or slander, the notification is immediately discontinued. It is a question of the fact that there has not been either the resources or the competence to investigate the crimes. That is one of the reasons why we in the reorganisation of the police have ensured that priority should be given to cybercrime and cybercrime skills throughout the country. It is one of the most important elements for investigating the type of crime on the Internet that affects individuals.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Okay, well, even if it doesn't become an online ombudsman, I totally agree with you that we really need to strengthen the police's knowledge of online crime. We cannot have what is now, that is, that our fundamental democracy and freedom of expression are threatened in this way. The Left Party has proposed that we have a kind of special police force for crimes on the Internet, and I look forward to working together in that direction. Because this is a threat to all of us, regardless of which party we come from.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-290	Madam President, I would like We are in complete agreement on this. There must be a basic competence throughout the Police Authority to ensure that when a report is made, you know if it can be further investigated. Of course, there must also be specialist expertise that can make the often difficult but very necessary investigations of the crimes that have been committed on the Internet. Then we need to make demands on companies as well. Minister for Digitalisation Peter Eriksson has opened up to, for example, make demands within the EU for identification when logging into the major platforms, so that it is actually possible to see who has done what.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-293	Madam President, I would like The difference between the government's last budget and the Christian Democrats from last autumn is a little over 7 1⁄2 billion in the area of health care. Despite the fact that we have so much more resources, however, the main difference is not there, but it lies in reforms and, above all, in results. Today it is almost impossible to find a diagnosis of cancer where patients receive treatment within the time that the profession has assessed the need to receive care. The Social Democrats promised before the last election that no cancer patient would wait longer than four weeks. Now we have heard that the Social Democrats are going to elections on the same thing again. While you are re-using unfulfilled electoral promises, queues are growing, and confidence in care is falling. My question to the Government is therefore: How many more patients will there be in the care queue before you realize that you are actually not up to this task?
i-HxQefVR3GYqVgxz1h7iAU6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Emma Henriksson! During this parliamentary term, we, from the government, have really given priority to the work of cancer. We have also done so in line with the work that began during the time when Göran Hägglund from the Christian Democrats was Minister of Social Affairs. We have introduced the standardised healthcare processes, together with professions and county councils around Sweden, for 18 different cancer diagnoses. It covers 97% of all diagnoses. We are increasing the security of Swedish cancer care in the long term, and we come up with an updated cancer strategy this spring – all so that people can feel safe in Swedish cancer care.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-297	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that you have continued the work we started, Minister, but you have not been able to ensure that you deliver what patients can actually expect. It is based on the work you have done in all other areas, where resources have gone to the wrong things. Lung cancer is the form of cancer that most people die of in Sweden. It is not even half of those patients who receive care in the time they need to increase their chances of survival, but 44%. The difference is also very large between county councils. What is the government doing about this?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-299	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson is well aware that the government has given high priority to cancer work during this parliamentary term. We have invested half a billion annually in the introduction of standardised healthcare processes, which are aimed at increasing the quality of treatment for cancer throughout the healthcare chain – regardless of where you live in Sweden. Fortunately, we now also see that waiting times in cancer care are being reduced when it comes to multiple diagnoses.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-301	Madam President, I would like Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi have both strongly advocated that consumers and the public sector should buy locally grown food from Sweden, for example for environmental and vulnerability reasons and for the whole of Sweden to live. The Minister for Rural Development is also speaking in this direction, and that is a good thing. Parliament's decision on a food strategy also talks about the importance of increasing the entire Swedish food production. The government, which also includes the Green Party, then chooses to set interim targets where it unilaterally highlights that municipalities and regions should primarily act ecologically from all over the world. This means that the usual, environmentally friendly Swedish agricultural products are given very little space while imports are increasing. My questions are simple: Why does the government not respect the goals of increasing the entire Swedish food production that Parliament has decided on? Why is only a small part of it one-sidedly highlighted?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We have a barely 50% degree of self-sufficiency when it comes to food in Sweden. We have a negative food trade deficit of 52 billion annually. There are many jobs that have disappeared, not least from the Swedish countryside. That is why the government has put a national food strategy on Parliament's table, and it was clubbed in broad agreement here in Parliament last year. It is about increasing food production, both organic and conventional. The government has also put in measures for a total of SEK 1 billion in the next few years. These are 40 different measures. One of the measures is to stimulate organic production, so that we produce more organic food. The shelves in the shops are gaping empty. Consumers demand it, but it does not exist. We also have large imports of organic goods. We must stimulate this.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-308	Madam President, I would like Let's get this out of here in half a minute, Minister for Rural Affairs. What signals does it give that the public sector should hardly buy any food at all from the world's best common environmentally friendly agriculture but only from a small part of it? Can the Minister understand that the vast majority of Sweden's farmers, whose production is not of interest to municipalities and regions, feel neglected? Why does the government give priority to only a small part of Swedish agriculture? Why does the Parliament's decision on objectives not be respected?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-311	Madam President, I would like We've put a new team in place. It enables municipalities to procure locally and to make demands on environmental, animal health and more. It is also the municipalities that decide what their priorities are. They can make demands on organic. But that's not necessary. It's not in the law. Freedom is there. It is important that we achieve greater organic production. The farmers who have organic production are doing much better. We also have the opportunity to export much more.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-313	Madam President, I would like The prerequisites for a well-functioning healthcare system that is accessible and of high quality are that the staff are available, that there are enough and that they have a high level of competence and ability to do a good job. Here we know that the challenges are great in some places. Besides, summer is approaching. Finally. But we know that the situation in health care can often get extra strained then.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-316	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna-Lena Sörenson, for the extremely important question! We know that many of the healthcare staff are worried about the summer. The fact is that during this parliamentary term we have really changed the direction of policy. We now have more than 100 000 more employees in welfare activities than when we took office. In addition, we have both created more training places and made historical permanent investments in county councils, precisely in order to be able to hire and make the necessary investments. In the spring budget, we have now also made a special package. We provide additional resources to the health care system in order, among other things, to strengthen during the summer or allocate funds in such a way that, for example, close care is strengthened, in order to alleviate staff concerns and meet citizens' needs. It was very well received when it was presented this week.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-320	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good that the government makes it easier for county councils and regions to really create the conditions for a good staffing in health care. It's important. Another challenge is to ensure that key groups in health care exist. Large retirements are at hand when it comes to them. Is there any way the government can help in this regard?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-323	Madam President, I would like The investment that we presented in the spring budget also takes height to just add a number of hundred million extra to the county councils. They are aimed at maintaining the particular lack of competence, even after 65. We know that needs will increase over time. We're going to need to keep every competent hand that can take care of it. And we need to bet on that.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-326	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Fridolin, who today also answers questions of a general political nature. The biggest challenge of our time is the climate challenge. For us to cope with it, society needs to change. And the transport sector is an important part of it. Earlier this week, a long-awaited and important message came from the government. The Social Democrats and the Green Party now agree on the high-speed investment that Sweden is going to make. However, there are critical voices for the project. There are even those who claim that it may not have to happen. I would like to ask Gustav Fridolin why it is important that we build for high-speed trains in Sweden and why it is also important for those parts of the country that will not be affected by the high-speed project.
i-Fc3YgoNSwJ9PNqGe2xXXqp	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Emma Hult! Sweden needs new main courses. Today we travel on the main tracks for which it was planned and which were built 100 - 150 years ago. We travel more, and we transport more. In addition, there are quite a few of us who have stood and frozen on a platform. In order to get better commuting traffic around the regions where the main routes are located, but also better freight traffic throughout the country, we need to relieve the old tracks. And then we'll build new main roads. When we build the new main roads, which is a great and historic investment, it is obvious to us that we should do it with the most modern and best available technology. It is an investment that we will live with for the next 100 to 150 years. It is therefore important that a broad agreement can do so. The government will sit down and meet with the bourgeois parties and the Left Party to explain how we have thought that this investment can carry out in such a way that the tracks are completed by 2040 – 2045.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-334	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your committed response. The existing rail network is in great need of rehabilitation and to some extent extension. There are now worrying voices around the country about what is going to happen to the existing rail network when we are going to invest in new railway infrastructure elsewhere. I ask myself that question too. I come from a county where rail networks are closed down and where at the same time we are talking about building for high-speed trains. What is the relationship between the existing network and the new routes?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-337	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure has made it clear that the national plan for the very nearest period of infrastructure will place a strong emphasis on rail investment. There's a lot more room for it than for us to start building for high-speed trains. We must manage both to build more in the rail network we have and to start building the new main roads. But we need the new main tracks. When sitting on a delayed train, there is a high probability that the delay has been created by any train in front of it. There are too many trains crowded on the same tracks, which is why we need new ones.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-339	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Linköping University not only offers high-quality education. It is also a research university of rank. In fact, last year it was ranked among the top 300 in the world on the Shanghai List, and it has climbed 100 placements in just five years. The university also comes out well in the national redeployment of research resources, where you look at quality and collaboration. At the same time, there is a major imbalance between funding for education and research. It is precisely the research grant that is remarkably low. Today, representatives from the university are sitting in the gallery. Me and my party colleague Finn Bengtsson are a bit rational and ask the question together. We wonder what the Government intends to do to overcome this imbalance in universities where funding for education and research is not synchronising.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the important question! The government's policy is that we should have research and higher education throughout the country, and that it should be of the highest quality. One of the quality parameters for higher education is that you have your own research funding properly. That is why we have now contributed 1.3 billion to the research bill in so-called basic grants that go directly to universities and higher education institutions. These will be allocated on the basis of the old criteria, which deal with the possibility of reaching external funding. However, we are also increasing the funding associated with the training mission. We also add a new parameter dealing with collaboration. It will benefit those universities that have a high degree of cooperation.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We agree that it is important that we strengthen research. At the same time, we see that some universities and universities are lagging behind. Although Linköping University has become a world-renowned research university with international brilliance, the government does not balance up research funding. I therefore wonder how the government intends to motivate and stimulate other research universities that climb.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Betty Malmberg, for the follow-up question! Here, as I said, the government has changed its policy. Previously, only the large and historically strong research universities received new basic funding. Now we make sure that everyone gets access to the basic grant but that it is based on these parameters. We have also set up an investigation that deals with the future governance and resource system that our higher education institutions should have. That will be what lays the foundation for the 2020s college and that we reach the goal.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-354	Madam President, I would like The question goes to Minister Fridolin. In a previous discussion that we have had here, Minister Fridolin has declared in the speaker's chair that he is hesitant about hard physical training. On this we may have a longer conversation some other day, but all the research shows the same, namely that fitness and strength is a fresh product that must be maintained all the time. The same is true of knowledge. Teacher training is just a detour board to get started with the training. Then training is the most important thing. The Swedish Democrats have previously put forward a proposal based on the Singapore model, which includes both a mandatory and a voluntary part. I know that the government has now released a professional programme, which is well a slightly pale copy of the Singapore model of the Swedish Democrats. However, it does meet some of our proposals. However, it is with dismay that I read in the spring proposal that we should cut 40 million from continuing training for teachers in favour of SFI. What was the government thinking there?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-359	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Stefan Jakobsson! Thank you for asking. I'm starting the training, and we've made a decision about 100 hours more sports and health in elementary school, which is good both. The latter may have a little more effect on Sweden than the previous one. The professorship program is important. It's been developed after discussions with the School Commission. With all due respect for the discussions in the Swedish Democratic Party Office, I would like to say that we are now developing this programme together with professional and research. The professorship programme provides the opportunity for teachers and principals to continuously develop and learn from each other throughout their teaching activities, and they must be recognised for learning so that wage development and development in tasks are followed up during the teaching work. That is the basis of the professional program, which is now being consulted. The change in our amending budget, in which, incidentally, we are increasing the overall funding for schools, is that we are moving money, which would not otherwise have been used, to areas where it is put to use.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-363	Madam President, I would like As I said, I'm quite happy with the professional program. That is at least a step in the right direction. The fact that not all the money has been spent says something about the difficulty of applying for grants among the muds of existing authorities, to try to find the various grants as principal and teacher. The Swedish Democrats have already suggested that we have a school authority, so that you put your application to a place and can focus on one thing, and that is actually being a good teacher in the classroom. What thoughts does the Government have about returning to having a school authority in charge?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-367	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question, Stefan Jakobsson! I've set up an investigation to review the government structure. One of the most important elements there, although the tasks carried out today must be carried out regardless of the structure of the authority, is that one gets closer to the principals. That's how you work a lot in the Swedish National Agency for Education, SPSM and the Swedish School Inspectorate today. You are out in schools and directly contribute knowledge and competence and transfer experiences from one school to another. Regionalisation is therefore an important part of the investigation.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-370	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Higher Education Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Soon, college students will find out if they have joined the summer courses they have applied for or not. Summer courses and other independent courses play a very important role in higher education in Sweden. Relevant summer courses allow students to get their degree faster and thus get a job faster, and this is really needed given the situation in the labour market. It also reduces the displacement effects on the labour market for those who stand a little further away so that they can get a first job, a summer job. In the 2014 election movement, the Social Democrats promised that there would be more summer courses. But despite the government's commitment to summer courses, there are fewer summer courses in 2018 than in 2014. This cannot be seen as anything other than an election promise deviated from the Social Democrats, so my question to the responsible minister is whether she is satisfied with the development during her time as responsible minister.
i-BMTxZDPYGva6eHxdmRmwyW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for your question! The previous government had a higher education policy based on temporary initiatives. Places were added, but places were removed elsewhere. This created enormous uncertainty in our colleges and universities and also led to the disappearance of many places at the beginning of this term of office. We add permanent seats and permanent money, provided there is no change of government of course. We have also invested money in summer courses to get the volumes up again. It is, as I said, colleges and universities that have to plan for this. I assume that they will use this money and the permanent space money that we have provided wisely so that more people can participate in summer courses, such as professionals or those who want to graduate earlier.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-377	Madam President, I would like On 10 July 2014, the current Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson gave a university promise. Among other things, there would be more relevant summer courses. In 2014 there were 421 searchable summer courses and this year there are 406 searchable summer courses. The figures speak clearly and show that the government has completely failed to keep its promise to create the conditions for more relevant summer courses.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-379	Madam President, I would like We have a lot to do when it comes to getting more independent courses but also summer courses at our universities and colleges. But the way there is not temporary gnomes but long-term work. We are now adding permanent seats. And the investigation I mentioned earlier is about how to modernise the governance and resource system for our universities and colleges so that they take responsibility for lifelong learning.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-380	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, because even this week I have trainees with me in my parliamentary work, Ida and Mira from Jändelskolan 0 – 8 outside Karlskrona. They have a question from their everyday life at school, which they would like me to put to the Minister for Education. It's about sports as one of the grades. The students are graded in how fast they can run or how high they can jump. The teachers thus assess the students' knowledge based on conditions or sports interest and not on how much they as an individual have learned during the time in school. How good you are at sports depends on the conditions and physique. For example, length affects how far and how high you can jump. This is not taken into account at all, Ida and Mira experience. Why are they rated in this way when everyone is so different?
i-4PyBJygN9d9MuJVpjau3MR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida and Mira, for the question, and thank you, Annicka Engblom, for passing it on! Knowledge requirements in the subject of sport and health are not formulated so that you should be assessed based on how fast you can run or how high you can jump. Knowledge requirements look different. On the other hand, without knowing exactly what it looks like at your school, we know that we need to develop the quality of the subject of sport and health. That is one of the reasons why the government has launched a movement network. Not everything a government can do itself, but here we work together with the universities that train teachers in the subject of sport and health, with researchers and with the sports movement in general to ensure that the subject of knowledge sport and health engages all students and that all students bring with them what they need for life, namely the opportunity and desire to continue moving and to know how movement and health are connected throughout their lives.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-386	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for his answer. Ida and Mira think that sports should be fun and show the importance of moving and not be something that many feel anxiety over and do not want to participate in. They wonder if the Minister of Education thinks that more people would attend classes if the grades were removed or at least changed how to judge the students individually.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-388	Madam President, I would like Yes, Annika Engblom, Ida and Mira, it is important that you do not feel that you are judged solely on the basis of your physical performance but on the basis of what the knowledge requirements actually state on the subject of sport and health. Sport and health are definitely one of the subjects where we need such development, and that is why we have launched a movement network and want to strengthen the continuing training of teachers and train more teachers to become competent in the subject.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-390	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. During the past week we have been able to read in the media how administrators at Försäkringskassan testify to serious abuses. It is alleged that administrators who reject many applications for sickness benefit are rewarded with a higher salary. This is not how the system is constructed, and we Social Democrats do not accept such a system. That is why I am convinced that the Minister for Social Affairs will act if she has not already done so.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-394	Madam President, I would like I thank Leif Nysmed for the question. For both me and the whole government, it is, of course, totally unacceptable that refusals in health insurance should give rise to wage increases. As soon as I heard about this through the reports that were in the ETC some time ago, that is, long before the Agenda last Sunday, both I and the Ministry of Social Affairs took up this information with Försäkringskassan's management. I know there is work going on at Försäkringskassan to get to the bottom of this and see if there is any truth behind these tasks. In such cases, of course, there is a clear mandate from the government to remedy this.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-397	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We agree that confidence in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must be strengthened. I have old colleagues in the construction industry and close friends who unfortunately have not received the support they expected from Försäkringskassan. I am therefore pleased that the Government takes this issue so seriously and is working to ensure that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is an authority that can be trusted in the future in case of illness.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-399	Madam President, I would like The government already decided in January on a package to increase support for individuals in health insurance. The Försäkringskassan, together with Arbetsförmedlingen, has received several such assignments. An assignment is about how Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan can cooperate better, and it will be reported to the Government in early May. We will follow this up with the utmost care.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-400	Madam President, I would like Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin is one of the leading party representatives who have signed the roll call Pornfri childhood. His motivation was, you know, you get pissed off. Yesterday the Parliament voted on the matter, and Fridolin's party colleagues did not support the Center Party's proposal that there should be porn filters on schools' networks, computers and tablets and that discussions on pornography should be given space and support in the context of sex and cohabitation education. While nearly 50 percent of the country's schools have recognized the need and have installed such filters in their networks, many have not even thought about it. Research can show that children's and young people's emotional life and their view of equal cohabitation and sex are affected by online porn and that an addiction can be established early. Gustav Fridolin may be pissed off, but that is nothing compared to what I feel about the hypocrisy that the Green Party engaged in in this House when it voted against the Center Party's proposal.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-405	Madam President and Ola Johansson! That only half of Sweden's schools offering their pupils or preschool children digital tools have ensured that these digital tools cannot be used to either surf porn or violence material or to violate other students is indecent. Every person who gives such a tool to a child or a student has responsibility for the working environment in this tool. It is clear in the law today. We will support the heads of schools and preschools so that everyone can buy in this kind of technical solutions. I promise you here and now, Ola Johansson, that I work entirely in accordance with the good exercise that you have brought to Parliament with several center parties. That was also the reason why the government parties did not support a so-called announcement. They saw that the government is already working on what was said in the motion, and the important thing is that something is happening.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-407	Madam President, I would like Gustav Fridolin now declares that they voted against because the government is working on it. But so far we have not seen a single concrete example of this. The explanation has been that the government talks with SKL, which I assume the Department of Education does every day. But I have not seen any concrete example other than the Minister's statement that he is being pissed off. What was the concrete reason why you voted 'no'? Give me an honest answer!
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-409	Madam President, I would like I accept a lot, but this is nonsense. In eight years, the previous government did not launch a single national initiative for the digitisation of schools. We have developed a digitalisation strategy together with the principals, and one of the obvious parts of it is to strengthen the security of students when they use digital tools. For me it is then a natural part that you should then have filters against porn and violence. Let's do it. I'm working on your exercise. I'll make you that promise.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-411	Madam President, I would like I and Minister Strandhäll have met several times in this House and debated the question of how to make it easier for the parents of children with chronic illness, such as diabetes, by teaching staff in preschool and schooling about children's needs. In the past, parents were entitled to child care allowance to train the staff, but they are no longer. In the debates we have had, the Government has referred to an ongoing investigation involving, among other things, the temporary parental allowance. The investigation has now arrived, and it states, among other things, that this is a problem that needs to be addressed. However, there is not a single proposal on how to resolve this. My question is therefore quite self-evident and the same as many times before: what is the Government doing to ensure that these children have a safe school day?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-414	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Christina for raising this issue again. I have replied on previous occasions that work is in progress. This did not come out within the framework of the parental insurance investigation that was in place, and it was a lot about it not being able to do the work that the investigation did. We have been clear that we want to make a full review of the temporary parental allowance, and it will be done. However, we need to be careful because this is a change in the application of the Vab days, and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency supports the interpretation it makes. It is not a question of lifting the school's responsibility to ensure the school environment for children with chronic diseases on their parents, because it must work in school with or without parents. The government continues to work on solving the issue that Christina Örnebjär has raised.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-419	Madam President, I would like I think we have debated this whole term of office, and now it is almost over. In an interpellation debate, the Government said: "We are also looking at parental insurance and the application of the temporary parental allowance. We'll get back to you. I replied: It is great that an investigation is being conducted, but it does not help the children and parents who are affected today. The same is still true. We need a quick answer. When is a proposal that solves this problem?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-422	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is important to have order in the debate. Christina Örnebjär knows as well as I do that if you are going to make legislative changes, you must have a preparation basis so that you know what you are doing. It is therefore important to take a grip on the temporary parental allowance – what it should be used for, where the limits should be drawn, where the border between the school and the parents' responsibility goes and what social security should stand for. I remain clear: there will be a solution to this.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-426	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. This applies to the high-speed trains that are planned between our three largest cities and which, I believe, have been a fantasy project right from the start. With cost estimates of several hundred billion, this issue should be stone-dead for a long time. For example, according to the Institute of Economic Development, every train ticket would have to be subsidised at SEK 700 - 800. To be honest, I am quite convinced that one part of the government, namely the Social Democrats, is well aware that the project will not happen. It is simply too expensive. Not least, we have the fact that the project is being pushed forward in time to some other government, which will then execute the proposal sometime in the future. When will the token fall down with the other part of the government? Is it not rather dishonest to pretend to the electorate that this project is still alive?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-430	Madam President, I would like We cannot have as little railway tracks in Sweden as we had 100 – 150 years ago. It won't hold. We travel much more, our companies have to transport much more goods than they did then and we need much more regional commuting. Then new main roads need to be built. New main tracks are a very big investment. It's an investment in the 100 billions class, absolutely! It must be knocked out for some time so that it really behaves, in the same way as we do with other major infrastructure investments. But when we build it, it is reasonable to build it in such a way that we know when it is completed, so that you can plan for housing and other socio-economic benefits, and that we build it with the most modern technology available. In this investment, we assume responsibility for the technology to be used to drive trains in 100 – 150 years.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-433	Madam President, I would like I am thinking about how seriously a government can be taken which makes a kind of promise now that there are election times for a government many mandates ahead and which pretends that this issue is alive. The rhetoric then suddenly pretends that a cost ceiling can be imposed. Everyone knows how grossly large the sums are, and that is why they have come up with the politically rather clever thing to say that it must cost this much maximum. That's not how it works in real life.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-436	Madam President, I would like This is exactly the kind of instructions you can give when doing this in a single project to an organization. With Fransson Josef's logic, we would in principle not be able to make any infrastructure investment whatsoever. Very few of them are planned, started and completed within a mandate. Most people actually take a little longer. With regard to high-speed trains, we want to start construction during this term through the East Link, which is contained in the current plan, and then proceed so that we have runways ready for 2040 – 2045.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-439	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. During the 2014 election campaign, the tone was loud from the Social Democrats regarding the longer time limit in health insurance. The promise was that it would be removed if S came to power, and so was done. But how, in fact, did it come to be under the control of the Red - Green Government for it to suffer sickness? The care queues have doubled, and in 2016 almost twice as many sick people were rejected compared to 2014. This means suffering as well as financial difficulties for the victim. This policy runs counter to the loud rhetoric that existed in the electoral movement. The Government has very clear head requirements in the regulations letter to Försäkringskassan. The Agency shall contribute to the long-term stability and low level of sick leave. It is also written that the number of newly granted sickness benefits must not exceed 18 000. The assignment to Försäkringskassan is ambiguous. How does the Minister think this balancing act should take place from the Authority?
i-9aqDABHqKW2APdUquoXGrU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! I am very surprised that this question comes in this way from you, who are well acquainted with health insurance and know exactly why the government has formulated the regulation letter in the way we have done. The fact is, Lotta Finstorp, that the year you mentioned was when you had completely lost control of sick leave in Sweden and it had increased by 70% during your government holdings between 2010 and 2014, while you secured 100,000 people and tried out the work capacity of only half of those who needed it. I think this is a certain amount of humility. In 2010, on the other hand, when you introduced the lower time limit in health insurance, you reduced sickness benefits to 6, 0, not 9, 0. Then people really suffered. We're going to have a safe insurance policy, we're going to have order in health insurance, and people are going to get the support they need.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-447	Madam President, I would like It is precisely because I am involved in this that I am asking this question. I am concerned about the news that has come and which several Members have mentioned today, namely that it is clear that higher salaries have been paid to officials who reject people's applications for sickness benefit from the Social Insurance Agency. The healthcare queues and health insurance are very closely linked, and I would like to hear what the Minister says about that.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-449	Madam President, I would like Now I feel that I find it very difficult to understand what Lotta Finstorp means and how this is connected. We are now in control of sickness rates. We work hard to increase the security of the individual in insurance. We shall have order in Sweden's finances, we shall have order in our social security policies and we shall have order in health care as well. We do not engage in popcorn politics, unlike the Moderates.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-453	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. In a study conducted by the LRF, one in five farmers says that they are worried about being subjected to threats or violations because of their job. One in four farmers also says that they have been affected by it. It's about threats that come out on the phone and in social media. I suspect that it most concerns animal farmers who are threatened by activists.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is very serious that farmers are being threatened. It is totally unacceptable, as is the fact that they are being threatened at their workplace when many of them have a combination of workplaces and homes. It is totally unacceptable that this should happen. The police are working with Säpo on these issues. They call it criminalist domestic extremism. So we are talking about serious things.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-459	Madam President, I would like The threats make it difficult to get people to want to work as farmers. We want food to continue growing in the future in Sweden. How can we continue to interest people in becoming a farmer in Sweden?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-461	Madam President, I would like It is important that we address these issues. That's why the police are working on developing regional cybercrime centres to curb this crime. We have changed the law of 1 July on protection, harassment and threats on the Internet, and we have increased the minimum penalty for this. We also get a new law in place on 1 January 2019, which deals with illegal threats when breaking into housing. We are also having a dialogue with the LRF on this. It is important that we get to grips with this, so that we get young people to choose agriculture.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-465	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Strandhäll. I was called the other day by a desperate parent who has a daughter who needs help from a child and adolescent psychiatric clinic. The parent had been told that it was more than a year's waiting time and was very desperate when we spoke on the phone. The truth is that the queues have tripled within the BUP. It's terrible. In Kronoberg County, which this was about – I am from Växjö – the care queues are generally six times longer than in our neighboring Halland. People are allowed to seek treatment elsewhere. The crisis is deep, and it is difficult to see any solution to the one with desperate patients and, above all, this parent who was extremely sad.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-470	Madam President, I would like I thank Katarina Brännström for an extremely urgent question. It is incredibly sad and terrible that mental illness among young people has increased as strongly as it has in the past ten years in Sweden. What is very much at stake is that we must face up to this with efforts and not with tax cuts. This is why during this term the government has doubled its efforts on psychiatry in Sweden and made substantial efforts to expand first-line psychiatry for children and young people and also made major investments in pupil health. Today we have 700 more people working in student health in Sweden compared to when we took office just to meet these students, so that not everyone needs to get in line to BUP. Because not everyone is going to the specialist psychiatry, but they should be caught up earlier. There we have a very strong focus in our work.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-472	Madam President, I would like I know that a lot is being done, and we share the view that there must be a lot of investment in staff and other things. Now it turns out it's not enough, and it's sad. Nevertheless, I cannot help but react when the Government speaks of tax cuts. Kronoberg County Council raised the tax rate last year, and it has become disastrously much worse. Queues grow fastest in Sweden there. Tax increases are therefore not enough. Nor is that a solution.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-474	Madam President, I would like No, just tax increases are not enough. But there must be resources for you to be able to hire, and there must be resources for you to be able to expand first-line care. There are two problems with BUP today. The first is that we are throwing up BUP because first-line psychiatry to catch up on these children and pupil health is not adequately equipped. The second is the lack of staff and skills. We will not turn this around for 15 minutes, but it is a long-term work that needs to be purposeful.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-476	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Gustav Fridolin.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-478	Does the Government think that it has assumed its responsibilities now that it has been shown that for two years it has done so that far too many have been denied assistance compensation?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-479	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars-Axel Nordell for the question. The government – responsible Minister Lena Hallengren, me and the rest of the government – has of course read the verdict, what the verdict means and how much it will mean to many in the assistance system. The judgment itself is proof of the uncertainty of the legislation itself. Different judgments have led to very different outcomes, which in turn has affected the assistance people very much and created an even greater concern among many more. This is one of the reasons why the government has set up a broader investigation to ensure that the person entitled to assistance will also receive assistance. Right now, Lena Hallengren is meeting representatives of the disability rights movement to discuss how we should do more to achieve this goal. I believe that the verdict that came from the Supreme Administrative Court is definitely a wake-up call for this work.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-482	Madam President, I would like If it's a wake-up call or not, let's get back to it. In fact, however, the government has called in its directives for the investigation to make proposals to cut the assistance compensation. This is clear from the directives. It is also in line with previous regulatory letters in 2015 that the number of hours should be reduced.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-484	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars-Axel Nordell for the supplementary question. There is a reason why this wording does not remain in the Social Insurance Agency's regulatory letter. It has also leaked a number of proposals that have not been proposals from the investigation but have been discussed in the investigation. These are proposals which the government has completely rejected and which will not be implemented. This is one of the reasons why Lena Hallengren is now meeting representatives of the movement to see how we should take this issue further, so that anyone who needs assistance can also feel safe.
i-TZ6KmFXucRttfhRddTAgMv	Madam President, I would like This report deals with 63 motions from general exercise time. They address issues such as honour-related violence, violence in close relationships and victims of crime. Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservations 4 and 15. I would also like to inform the House that we support the proposal for a declaration contained in the report. Instead of protecting victims, Sweden has for a long time been putting in a system to feel sorry for criminals. Crime is explained in terms of poverty and other socio-economic concepts. The criminal justice system is characterised by leave and parole combined with low penalties. Convicted rapists don't have to be deported for the sake of their mental health. We must change this order. It is not the criminals who should be protected, it is the criminals who are the victims of crime. It is a gloomy picture that characterizes the development in Sweden, where the criminal gangs ravage the alienation areas and control large areas. We see this not least in my hometown of Malmö. This creates insecurity for those who live there and for others who may want to stay in these areas and who may engage in sports or other activities in these places. You don't dare go into your own neighborhood. These are signals that we must take very seriously. In other words, violence represents a serious restriction on the freedom to which we are all entitled. Weaknesses in the protection of victims are not just about violence. It can also be about very practical things, such as when a burglary takes place in a dwelling. There we see that the clearance rate is alarmingly low, especially in the case of apartments. But it doesn't have to be just housing. This may involve theft of bicycles, theft of cars or vandalism. There we see that the victims do not get the redress they should actually have. For the person who experiences a violation of the private home or property, it is no security to face an abandoned police investigation which, moreover, is usually very weak. The problem is, of course, linked to the fact that we have too few policemen combined with a growing population. For this, both present and former governments are responsible. For several years, the Swedish Democrats have consistently pointed to the need for more police officers. We could also hear this in Tuesday's debate on the situation of police staffing, where it became clear that Sweden is struggling with the problem of increasing the number of trained police officers in relation to the population increase. It's serious. More police officers are the single most necessary measure to combat crime and reduce the number of victims. Had the other parties in this House joined our line earlier, we would have had a different situation today. Sweden has also had a very slow process when it comes to acting against honour problems. Many times it was also naive and de facto about the reasons for this situation. Among other things, we could see how the Left Party, at the time, totally ignored the existence of honour problems. They did not want to admit that there was such a problem. Fortunately, today is a different picture that characterises the debate. But it is also a reality in which many, mainly young women, live. This may involve restrictions on the right to move freely and socialize with friends. For example, we have seen this in my hometown when the young girls' brothers are waiting outside when school is over to make sure that their sisters get into the car and they can take them to their home. They should not socialize with others; they should not socialize with their classmates or engage in leisure activities that you have no control over. These are serious restrictions on their freedom, and we must take this seriously. Legislation is also not part of the development of society. A good example of this is the case where a child witnesss honorary violence in his or her family. There is little freedom to question the child unless the parents give their consent. We hear how weird that sounds. The guardians must give their consent in order for the police to hear the child when there is honorary violence in the family. Does anyone seriously believe that it will lead to an effective hearing or even an interrogation? But that's how the Swedish justice system works, protect the criminals and forget about the victims. We have therefore chosen to support a motion request to be able to conduct interviews with children under the age of 15 who have witnessed violence of honour without the guardians having to approve of this. The Swedish Democrats have long been pushing the issue of reforming the system of damages and payment of criminal damages. In general, our position is that damages, at least in respect of offences against persons, must be increased. For serious violent and sexual crimes, we want to see a substantial increase in damages. However, in addition to the relatively low levels of compensation in the current system, the system for the payment of damages in connection with offences is also inadequate and needs to be changed. Today, it is the victim who has to spend time and effort in order to have the rightful compensation paid. Once the judgment has become final, the victim must first actively notify the Swedish Enforcement Authority if you want help in obtaining the damages. Often this falls flat, as the offender does not have the money to pay all or part of the damages. In this situation, the victim may contact the insurance companies. If this does not help, you can contact the Victims' Agency and apply for compensation. It is therefore in the third place that one can turn to the Victims' Agency. This is a typical example of Swedish legislation lacking a clear victim perspective. As obvious as it is that the State is responsible for the enforcement of penalties, it should, of course, be that the State takes responsibility for the actual payment of damages in connection with a judgment. Putting the burden on the victim and in many cases suffering from post-crime trauma is not worthy of a modern legal society. For this reason, we have proposed a state compensation guarantee. We believe that the state should go in and pay the compensation to the victim imposed by the court. In this way, the victim will receive his or her rightful compensation and will be able to move on more quickly in his or her life. Thereafter, the State must take over responsibility and actively recover the blame from the offender so that, in the end, it is always ensured that he or she never escapes liability in practice. We have therefore supported the motions that highlight the issue of state responsibility on the issue of damages.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-500	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is debating report 17 Violent crime and crime victims. The hashtags # silent class, # silence and # power corridors. During the autumn of 2017, many stories of abuse and violations at different workplaces were highlighted. Young people and children also have a place of work. It's called the school. During the hashtag # the quiet class described abuses and violations that should never be tolerated in school. We have a consent law that has been developed for a long time. It is clear from legislation that inaction is not voluntary. But that is not enough. We must also work to ensure that the rape never happens. We need to prevent it. In the spring change budget, the government proposes that over SEK 100 million be added for preventive and competence-enhancing work related to the hashtag #metoo and men's violence against women, half of which is added to the school. The basis for the abuse has often been laid when men were boys. It is therefore important that we have a strong and equal sex and cohabitation education that can interact with the school's work for security and against violations. In order to investigate sexual crimes more quickly, some of the money allocated to the police in the spring budget will also be spent. In the spring budget is an addition to the police of 200 million, and it is in addition to the big investment in the police that was made last autumn. Women and girls around the world are still experiencing a major lack of rights, representation and resources. Although progress has been made on gender equality, a great deal remains to be done. Gender-related violence includes violence in close relationships, sexual violence, human trafficking for sexual purposes and honour-related violence and repression, as well as female genital mutilation. All women in the world have serious obstacles to the enjoyment of basic human rights. One estimate is that 30 percent of all women are victims of violence at some point in their lifetime. It is a global issue that our government has been working on for a long time. This week, a conference on gender equality will take place here in Stockholm. There, leaders from around the world meet to discuss methods and tools for gender equality work and contribute to common solutions to global challenges. The debate today is about victims of crime, and many of the motions included in the report deal with issues relating specifically to women victims. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is a serious social problem that causes a great deal of suffering both physically and mentally. It is the ultimate consequence of the imbalance that exists between women and men. The overall objective of gender equality policy is to ensure that women and men have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The interim objectives include the goal that men's violence against women should cease and that women and men, girls and boys should have the same rights to their own body and the same opportunities. Nevertheless, as the government points out, violence is still widespread and costly, especially in terms of the suffering of individual women, but also of society. The government wants to prevent both the practice of violence and the repetition of violence. There is also a need for stronger measures in the area of protection and law enforcement. It requires a broader and more constructive engagement of men and boys and a deal with macho standards that justify violence and restrictions on women's and girls' room for manoeuvre and life choices. This requires more men to know and engage in matters that may not directly concern them. But it concerns a sister, a neighbor, a daughter, or perhaps just a fellow human being. I hope that many men out there will listen to today's debate and that more will fight. Because today I see far too few men in connection with issues of rape, sexual crime or violence in close relationships. Madam President, I would like We need a strategy. We need to get more people to say no to violence and yes to gender equality. Combating men's violence against women is a high priority area in which the government carries out strong work. It covers both legislation and increases in resources to public authorities and non-profit organisations operating in this area. The government has a ten-year strategy in the area of men's violence against women, which took effect on 1 January this year. We also have a gender equality authority set up at the beginning of the year. It should hold all the threads and ensure that coordination and collaboration work in the field of work against human trafficking for sexual purposes, violence in close relationships and honour-related violence. Future work will be more focused on preventing different forms of violence against women by men. If we can, we can prevent victims and perpetrators from ever being created. The total measures in the area cover over SEK 900 million for the period 2017 – 2020. It is money that can fight violence but also save lives. Madam President, I would like Although we spend a lot of resources on preventing violence from ever occurring, the reality is that violence is already in the midst of us. Many women today live with fear of being persecuted, harassed or injured by an ex. In order to improve the protection of the persons being persecuted or harassed, an investigator has been tasked with reviewing the use of a anklet in the event of a restraining order. Among other things, it is proposed to extend the possibilities for using a anklet to monitor the restraining order. The Government also allocates SEK 100 million annually to women's shelters and has increased the fee sentenced pay to the Victim Support Fund so that support will be provided to Victim Support Finland when crime victims need it. Madam President, I would like I come from Uppsala County. Another living there was Fadime Sahindal. Fadime was murdered in 2002 by his father. She was murdered because her family's honor outweighed her life. This can never be accepted. In Sweden, human rights and Swedish law must always prevail. Society must act harder against the oppression of honour that exists. According to UNICEF, over 700 million women worldwide have married as children. In Sweden, it is not allowed for children to marry, but there are cases where children who have already married abroad come here. The Finnish Immigration Service estimated that 129 girls and 3 boys were married in 2016. Child marriage primarily affects girls and is a way for the family to control them. Strengthening protection against child marriage is a matter of children's rights and gender equality. Investigator Mari Heidenborg now proposes stricter rules. Foreign children's marriages where none of the parties are related to Sweden shall not be recognised if either party was under the age of 18 upon arrival in Sweden. This summer, the government also gave the investigator in additional assignments to analyse and take a position on the possibilities of introducing more effective tools to prevent and prevent people related to Sweden being forced to enter into marriage or genital mutilation abroad. The risk of this is usually greatest during summer holidays. In March 2017, the Government also commissioned the investigator to investigate whether there is a need for measures to ensure stronger protection and detection of honour-related violence and repression in general. This applies, for example, to social services and schools. Here it can be about the care or blocking of passports and travel bans. The investigator shall also decide on the need for a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives. The assignment will be finalized on 1 September 2018, i.e. this year. It is also welcome that the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala has received 5 million to educate on violence in close relationships at relevant higher education programmes. This will increase the knowledge of honor-related issues among the professions facing these people. We also allocate 50 million extra to women's shelters in our budget, so that those who are victims of honour-related violence can receive support. Madam President, I would like J ag has presented a series of measures aimed at preventing people from being subjected to crime and at providing support when someone is already exposed. We have done a lot, but this work must continue constantly. I hope that we will have a feminist government also in the next parliamentary term. I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-520	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the world's first feminist government has taken major and important steps to combat violent crimes, men's violence against women, crimes against children, sexual crimes and crimes of honour – issues that we debate in the report Violent crimes and victims of crime. For a long time, work to combat men's violence against women has been largely focused on the time since the violence has already taken place. It is important that we prosecute offenders and provide support to victims of crime. It is very valuable that the government has invested in women's and girls' shelters' important activities. What distinguishes the policy of the feminist government, however, is that we are now focusing even earlier on preventing violence from taking place at all. We are setting the light on the destructive masculinity standards that create perpetrators of sexual violence and violence against women. But the fact is that precisely that kind of macho standards are responsible for also some of the use of violence in connection with gang crime, such as shootings. The fight against destructive masculinity standards is central to combating crime. The Government's ten-year national strategy highlights a number of proposals aimed at preventing violence, improving the detection of violence and providing stronger support and protection for women and children exposed to violence. It also includes measures to combat violence more effectively and to improve knowledge and methodology development. I am pleased to see in this report that more parties have joined something that we, and the women's movement in particular, have been pushing for a long time, namely that we must ensure that knowledge of these issues is included in the legal programme and in training courses for various occupational groups who, in their daily lives, meet the victims of violence. However much knowledge exists at a horizontal, social level, it is nevertheless crucial that the meeting between a child and a social secretary provides knowledge that enables the social secretary to catch up on children who are suffering, sees the signs there and knows what measures need to be taken. Madam President, I would like One of the most important measures in this area is the introduction of a consent law. The fact is that it is not currently prohibited under Swedish law to have sex with someone who does not want to. In addition, the use of violence or threats or the exploitation of a particularly vulnerable situation is now required. This order is not okay. We will now ensure that a law of consent is put in place to ensure that the line between a punishable rape and criminal behaviour is reached if the person has participated voluntarily. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal to be highlighted in this area – many important measures that have been taken and are under way. One of these has been heated in the media too recently: measures to ensure that no child can be married in Sweden. Despite the fact that the Riksdag in broad agreement criminalized child marriages and forbade them, a small gap was left. In fact, children who come to Sweden and are married under the laws of another country can still be considered married. This is not acceptable. Now that we are introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we must stand up because all children have the right to be children. We must ensure that no child in Sweden can be married. Although somewhere there may be someone who has voluntarily entered into such a marriage, child marriage is globally one of the worst abuse of girls. Girls are subjected to rape and control and to having to become parents before they have grown up. In Sweden, we should be clear about where the limit goes. Madam President, I would like I commend the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs 17 on violent crime and victims of crime and thank you for the great commitment to the importance of these issues on which there is now broad consensus in this House.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-530	Madam President, I would like Every society and every democratic country depends on a strong and well-functioning civil society with committed citizens supporting voluntary work. Civil society is a foundation and backbone of a democratic society. It is a development force, a democracy actor and a collaboration partner for the public. We need a strong and committed civil society for future challenges. It is important for civil society to be seen and confirmed by the public. Civil society needs the public and vice versa. However, civil society also needs to be protected against infinity from the public. It is important that the whole of civil society remains independent and free and can interact with other actors on its own terms. Countries where there is a lack of civic commitment and civil society is weak or does not exist are not democratic, well-functioning countries. In a country like that, I don't want to live. There is no opinion and no freedom for people to join forces to influence, and it is probably not obvious that you can express your opinions and perhaps try to change things. Here in Sweden, we agree that it is civil society that supports our fundamental values and keeps democracy alive. Civil society has many different functions. These include representatives of different groups, and they are voice carriers and opinion-makers. Civil society includes everything from small local associations such as housing associations and community associations to large organisations and associations such as religious communities, sports associations, trade unions and charities. Political associations are also part of civil society. It is therefore large and small and is the sum total of citizens' activities. All the different parts create trust and social capital, which is desirable in a society. Everyone is equally important and we are concerned that they work well because civil society contributes to the values and standards of our population on which society's political systems, laws and rules are based, and it is through civil society that they become effective. Civil society is an important partner for the public in addressing the challenges we face in society. In particular, it is important to stimulate social enterprises and to strengthen knowledge of social enterprises and social entrepreneurs. In this way, more people can contribute to society and to the welfare and woe of the individual. We must have and want a society in which we are all confident that public funds go to activities that are consistent with the fundamental values formulated in the form of government and in the international conventions on human rights. We all remember the autumn of 2015 when the flow of refugees to Sweden increased significantly and how civil society then volunteered with a comprehensive activity in the reception itself and later to simplify integration. Here, civil society interacted with several different actors, including municipalities and regions. What would have happened in 2015 if we had not had such a committed and comprehensive civil society? We will never know, but we can imagine how it could have been. We in the Alliance believe that cooperation between civil society and municipalities, where the core business of welfare is, should and must be strengthened. It should be long-term and predictable for civil society. It should not just be when the public does not have the means to call on civil society. Last year, the Palett investigation for a strengthened civil society was launched, and there are a number of proposals to make it easier for civil society to operate in a long-term and predictable manner. There are a lot of interesting proposals in the investigation that are worth considering, and I'm going to mention some of them – there are so many, so I would mention everyone I would be standing here for a very long time. For example, it is important to establish long-term local civil society platforms in areas where people live, especially in socio-economically vulnerable areas. It is important that the authorities that are relevant to this work work to simplify for associations and organisations and that civil society organisations are included when planning the future work. It is important to make it easier for civil society to contribute to activities for asylum seekers and activities that improve opportunities for faster integration. One way is to use early Swedish education and social meeting places. For example, using the resources of civil society as a whole for asylum seekers in housing centres or newly arrived municipalities for teaching Swedish is one way to speed up integration and at the same time make life for those who receive teaching more substantial. There are almost endless opportunities to organise teaching in Swedish and use as many civil society organisations as possible. It is important that support to meet civil society needs is clear. There are many good proposals in Palett for a strengthened civil society, and I have only mentioned a few here. Many proposals are worth considering. Another recent study is the State's support for religious communities in a multi-religious Sweden. The religions are also part of civil society. The dialogue between public and religious communities is very important, and the dialogue between these two parties must be strengthened, not least at regional and local level. The aim is to counteract and early discover anti-democratic ideas and extremism and to counter radicalisation. Here, one of the proposals is a clear democracy criterion that shows the fundamental values that we have in Sweden on which our democracy rests. Society of faith that acts in violation of protected fundamental values in Swedish society should not receive any support. It can be violence, threat or coercion against a person. These may be things that violate children's rights or things that discriminate or violate the principle of the equal value of all people or are opposed to democratic governance. To make this clear, it may even be said that such associations and organisations have no right of existence in Sweden. It is important that public funds are not paid out to associations or organisations that do not share our fundamental values. I am thinking here of terrorism and support for radicalisation or violent extremism. It is important that we have a regulatory framework and supervision that is effective and that quickly identifies and prevents the misuse of state funds. We need to improve early detection of such trends, but we also need to work preventively in areas where radicalisation and terrorism occur so that we can effectively counter this. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for reservation 2 in paragraph 2 and for reservation 7 in paragraph 4.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-544	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for additional cases to reservations 3 and 9. For the Swedish Democrats, it is crucial that society is built together by all its citizens. Civil society is an irreplaceable factor in this joint project. Within civil society, thousands of people create opportunities and added value for others. It is a positive force that seems to unite Swedish citizens. Associations play an important role in the field of civil society. It is therefore of the utmost importance that public contributions are allocated responsibly and with respect for democracy and taxpayers' money. Those receiving public funds should be able to meet a minimum level of social welfare and quality. Both supervision and regulatory frameworks should be reviewed and strengthened so that non-democratic and violent organisations do not have the opportunity to receive tax-funded support. The Swedish Agency for State Aid to Faith Communities, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, Sida and the Swedish National Heritage Fund are examples of government-funded organisations that today provide financial support in one way or another to the Muslim Brotherhood's sub-organisations. These networks today devote a lot of time to preventing Swedish Muslims from being exposed too much to Western norms and values, which is why they benefit from a certain form of segregation in society. This is nothing to the benefit of Swedish taxpayers. The government should therefore investigate the consequences of public funds being made available to organisations that are part of the Muslim Brotherhood Network. We have seen that organization within certain religious communities has led to increased radicalization of primarily young believers. We believe that this has meant increased intolerance and reduced respect for universal human rights. Furthermore, it has led to terrorist crimes and to active or indirect active support for crimes against humanity. We therefore want the government to work to enable the closure of communities with harsh interpretations that tend to drive people to commit crimes or support terror. The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally positive about the role and involvement of the religions in civil society and believe that it is justified to support this. Regrettably, in recent years, it has been shown that violent associations and organisations that call for criminal offences and do not support basic democratic principles such as support for freedom of expression and assembly, men and women's equal value and so on have been able to receive tax-funded support, which is of course totally unacceptable. Organisations alienating themselves and their members from – rather than approaching – the majority society by failing to meet the demands of democracy and gender equality in a satisfactory way should not be financed with common resources. However, we want to extend the support to those organisations and associations that work to preserve, make visible, bring to life and make Swedish cultural heritage accessible. We want to see a strengthening of the role of cultural heritage in regional development, community building and urban planning. We also want to see increased support for the preservation of culturally important church buildings and the establishment of a national church history museum. Furthermore, we want to provide funds to MUCF so that organisations representing young people with disabilities can seek funds for cultural activities of their own choice. Perhaps the most important role of civil society in today's society is to increase cohesion and security. The Swedish Democrats are working for a Sweden where society is characterized by a historically rooted, common Swedish culture that creates cohesion and solidarity between citizens. The Swedish Democrats are working for a Sweden where Swedish cultural heritage is respected and kept alive, where creativity is encouraged and where a positive, qualitative and popular culture is made available to all groups in society – a Sweden with a viable and successful sports movement and with a strong civil society.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-555	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I support all the joint alliance reservations. However, I choose for time winning to claim consent only to the Center Party's reservation No. 4. Madam President, I would like In the Center Party we see that civil society often succeeds very well with things that government agencies with many billions of funds fail to do. That is why we want to strengthen this effect and give civil society better opportunities to develop their work. Civil society is already making invaluable efforts to create confidence in the future and cohesion and to be a contact-building space. Throughout its term of office, the Centre Party has highlighted the importance of civil society in, for example, contributing to better integration. In our budget motions, we have invested specific funds on civil society to improve integration. It is also civil society actors who are often fast in place when there is a need for cooperation between people. Not least, we could see this when, for a short but intense period, many people sought refuge in our country. Civil society organisations were there first and quickly. We see it even now when support is needed to get into our society. For example, the Red Cross, the church and religious communities, as well as the sports club and the district farm association are in place. There is also the education of the people and the cultural association. However, it is important that we give public attention and support to the important efforts of civil society, because there are problems that need to be taken seriously. There are problems with project grants at the expense of basic support, which make the activities difficult to control and which may hinder the development of the activities. Projects are good when you want to develop your business and maybe find new ways and try new ideas for your business. However, it must also be possible to work with your business without having to apply for new project grants all the time. It must therefore be made easier not just to rely on public funds. Unfortunately, the government removed the right of deduction for grants to non-profit organisations. Instead, we want to reinstate it in the Center Party. We also want to investigate a broadening of this right of deduction. In short, it is time for an association law investigation – an investigation aimed at clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for civil society. Madam President, I would like When an idea-based organisation wants to cooperate with the public to make public contributions, difficulties often arise because there are no clear models – like models in public procurement, for example – to use. There may be confusion about the legal structure that makes the cooperation run the risk of simply not becoming a reality. That is why we want to develop models for such a partnership between ideas-based organisations and the public. There will also be opportunities for more cooperation. We from the Center Party want to improve the opportunities for civil society to make a contribution to society. But then we need better knowledge of the challenges that exist in society. Here, the public can be better at inviting civil society for dialogue and collaboration. In Sweden, the number of churches and communities is also increasing. It is a wealth that our society can contain this diversity – a diversity and a wealth that is an expression of religious freedom as well as a multicultural and open society. But while freedom of religion is always to be protected, there is no turning a blind eye to the fact that there is a context in which there is increased radicalisation with anti-democratic pre-signs. It is a challenge to see and talk about radicalisation without generalising; we must be careful about that and beware of that. Work is needed to develop proposals on how society can contribute to an in-depth dialogue with all communities on concepts such as freedom of religion, democracy and gender equality and on the values that hold our society together. Public-faith dialogue needs to be strengthened in order to prevent anti-democratic ideas and counter radicalisation, while at the same time halting public funds for organisations that accept honour-related crime. Madam President, I would like The work of civil society, sport and associations plays a very important role in the positive development of society. If more children and young people become aware of associations, it can be a way of counteracting segregation and building bridges within cities, between areas and social groups. The Center Party's programme of ideas says that democracy, demographic development and people's desire for increased power over their own everyday lives require increased scope for voluntary work, association work and social and cultural entrepreneurship. Sport, voluntary social work and amateur culture are clear examples of how civil society creates cohesion, integration and engagement. The task of politics is to remove obstacles and clear the way for this development power. If the public is becoming too ambitious, taking on more and more tasks and guaranteeing more and more parts of people's lives, this risks countering the voluntary initiatives that would have arisen in its place. ..................................................... But, Madam President, on behalf of the Center Party, we know that politics can support civil society by involving it in more processes, financing its infrastructure and taxing it as little as possible.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-571	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, we saw a humanitarian disaster in Sweden, a humanitarian disaster called the refugee crisis. It was a time when our ability to show solidarity with one another was tested, a time when our ability to show compassion was tested. The politicians in charge chose to close their hearts, but civil society opened theirs. They mobilized, created preparedness and delivered. They let refugees into their houses and arranged facilities and mattresses. They assisted with information, money, phone cards, train tickets, mobile chargers, medicines, clothes, a ride by car and, above all, a lot of love. It was something that had not been seen in Sweden since the Second World War and the white buses in Malmö. I am very proud of Malmö and its population. But this was something completely different. The whole of Malmö mobilized at Centralen and received people who needed help. This is a popular movement based on love, solidarity and humanity. Therefore, as I stand here today talking about civil society, I would like to take this opportunity to thank these very organisations, who stood up when needed, those organisations that showed humanity, those organisations that showed solidarity, those organisations that chose to give hope to the hopeless. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all these organisations and all these individuals who went out and helped. This applies to organisations in Malmö such as Kontrapunkt, Ensamkommanets Förbund, Malmö sanctuary for undocumented migrants, Rådgivningsbyrån, Amnesty, Red Cross, Save the Children, Asylum Group, Individual Human Aid, Left Party's own sanctuary fund, Swedish church, Civil Rights Defenders, RFSL Newcomers, Afrosvenskarnas Forum for Justice, Alla Malmö, sports associations and so on. I would like to thank those of you who took that time and showed that solidarity when it was needed. Mr President, I would like to A people's movement was built. The public movement and the whole of civil society play an important role in the inclusion and establishment of unaccompanied minors. Through associations' activities and day-to-day activities, contacts can be created outside the housing and school. However, the difficulty of getting in touch with and accessing the regular activities of associations and organisations is an obstacle to the realisation of the potential of associations. The activities that exist are often targeted specifically at the group of unaccompanied minors and risk strengthening exclusion rather than promoting inclusion. I believe that it is important to remove the obstacles that exist to greater inclusion and establishment in society. Mr President, I would like to Several organisations have highlighted problems with requirements for extensive administration and complicated regulations for both grants and procurements by municipalities and authorities. In addition to more structural barriers, the organisations also describe a number of practical difficulties, such as difficulties in accessing different housing facilities and the lack of coordination between the organisations and the local government sector. Mr President, I would like to Removing these barriers is an important route to greater inclusion and establishment in society. There is thus a need to simplify the regulatory framework, reduce administrative requirements, offer longer-term conditions, increase knowledge of civil society and find alternative ways to promote and encourage spontaneous engagement that takes place outside established organisations. In order for the activities that take place outreach out on the premises to function well and lead to real inclusion of asylum seekers in the associations, we need effective collaboration between municipalities, housing and associations. It is very important that this collaboration takes place and that there is a partnership between the associations and the municipality. I come from Malmö, where over the last 20 years I have been very active in civil society and still am. I see how civil society struggles daily to survive. We have seen that civil society plays an important role in this country. Several previous speakers have mentioned the importance of having a civil society, but we, as politicians, must also ensure that the conditions for this civil society can function properly as a complement to the work we are doing. However, we are not there yet, and that is why we in the Left Party think it is important that this particular work should be improved. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, we say that the government should come back with proposals on how to strengthen the conditions for civil society to engage in inclusive activities in asylum homes. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 5.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-581	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I and the Liberals support all our reservations, but for time to come, I only support the Liberals' reservation 6 and the alliance-wide reservation 2, which has already been called for. Civil society, the third sector, idea-borne sector, voluntary work, social economy – dear children have many names. This represents a commitment that is born out of the will to change and create better living conditions. Many of us sitting in this Chamber are involved in many associations within everything from local, such as sport, to national and international, such as the Red Cross. It is all about individuals and organisations that contribute to the development of society with their commitment, usually in their leisure time and usually without payment. Without this commitment, society would stay. Being in an association contributes to meaningful leisure time, whether you are old or young. Associations are also a school in democracy. Without the voluntary work of all local associations around us, all volunteers and all our communities, it would be hard to implement different types of arrangements, to develop rural areas and to support young people as well as the elderly. In the long run, both socially and economically, it pays for the public to protect society and civil society. Many here have talked about autumn 2015, Mr President, and how important civil society and voluntary work were then. Yes, it was extremely important, and it remains extremely important. It is not that the need ceased after the border was closed. Every day in every municipality around Sweden there are associations and individuals who do great things. We have Find Home in my own municipality Kumla. It is an association that ensures that those who have come as unaccompanied and for various reasons are homeless now get a place to live. It was committed people who took the initiative and wanted to make a difference. Mr President, I would like to In 2015, a survey asked young people aged 16 to 25 if they felt that they could be with whom they wanted. 87 percent replied that the family did not control their choice of partner. This may sound good at 87%, but at the same time, consider that 13% has a family that obviously governs their choices. There are also large differences between young people with Swedish background and young people with foreign background. Only 69 percent of those with foreign background feel that they can be with anyone they want. For those with Swedish background, the figure is 93 per cent. It's about tens of thousands of young people. A 2009 study says it's 70,000. The investigation into strengthening protection against forced marriages and child marriages estimates that in 2011 at least 250 to 300 people experienced an acute or rather acute risk of getting married against their will. It is important to make visible the honour-related violence and repression in society and to follow developments. There is a lack of regular investigation into the extent of honour-related violence and repression. Liberals have called for a national survey. In February 2017, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out a national survey of honour-related violence and repression. It is welcome, because it has been missed. We think that this should be done often, at regular intervals, so that progress can be studied over time. The voluntary organisations that work to make honour-related oppression visible, to form opinion, to spread knowledge and to support individuals make incredibly important contributions. More resources are therefore needed to support such organisations. Cooperation and cooperation between public and civil society needs to be strengthened. We Liberals also want more support for what we call suburban feminists, the feminist movement that has emerged in vulnerable areas. Clearly, it poses particular challenges to question the very idea of honour in those social environments where this is particularly common. Similarly, it is also crucial that public funds are never used to provide support to organisations that oppose democratic principles and gender equality. Organisations accepting honour-related crime shall not make public contributions. Civil society plays an important role, not least in promoting the entry of newcomers into Swedish society. It contributes to new contacts. It contributes to new meeting places. And it's an inalienable part of our society. In this context, public engagement and financial support to civil society for integration efforts will be provided. At the municipal level, we liberals are happy to see that an integration pool for smaller and simpler activities is set aside for associations and schools. Civil society – which also includes the study associations, which are very close to my heart – plays an important role in contributing to activities that provide young people with skills for the future and for life. As the Swedish peoples' movements grew up, they all stressed very strongly the need for peoples' education. It was through literature and through studies that the individual would acquire tools to take greater responsibility for himself, for others and for society. Since then, peoples' education has played an important role in raising the level of knowledge in society. By being free and voluntary, it also reaches and lifts people who might not otherwise have come into contact with the usual formal education system. Above all, they had not come to their own. An example of how education successfully prepares young people is the case for those with intellectual disabilities who have come to work and study through the cultural college model. I have often stood and talked about the cultural college model here in the speaker's chair, and probably I will continue to talk about it, because this is something that I am extremely proud of. This is happening at the local level, and I think there should be more places. It is also something that we Liberals have driven many times in our budgets. I started by giving a number of synonyms to what we are talking about – the commitment that in many ways acts as a tickle between us. Association means just that: to unite. That is something that we really need more of in society as a whole.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-594	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I support all the reservations which include the Christian Democrats. During my life's journey, I have worked for ten years in Gothenburg with homeless people, a position that ended in 2009. An organisation called the Gothenburg Rescue Mission is making great efforts among the homeless, those that Mother Teras called the poorest of the poor. The civilian element in the form of volunteers is significant. I would say that the volunteers who are around our country have had and are of crucial importance to the construction of our society, which we have heard several speakers mention here. It is true that Christian Democrat Robert Schuman's a: that a society is built by people but consists through institutions. But this building of society is going on at the same time. The non-profit-working people in civil society organisations rarely demand anything back for their efforts. They are people with compassion for other people's concerns. Even if they do not demand anything back, they have yet found the secret of how to form a good life: The one who gives sheep, and it is actually a greater joy to give than to receive. There are miles between the Swedish Academy and the people who engage in the service of the vulnerable. The paradox, however, is that one who engages in the service of others will be exalted among men. One example is the priest Carl-Carl-Erik Sahlberg in St. Clara's parish, a few stone's throw from here. He engaged in social work, including in Sergels torg, among the most vulnerable. It was brought to the attention of the king, with a medal. On the other hand, those who exalt themselves may risk falling heavily. The Swedish Academy was described like this in a newspaper the other day: Imagine this: A person who has worked in secret, with powerful protectors and silence, suddenly drops his pants and gets a headlight in his face and realizes that it is on a huge scene – the panic. That could be being human. Or it could be like in Hamlet's first scene: Up fly the words. The tank still stands. Words without thought heaven never reaches. Mr President, I would like to The good society we create together. It is, for example, when the social offices are closed that the Red Cross, night hikers, churches and communities are available. During the evenings, weekends and nights, they are available to support vulnerable people. We in the Alliance believe that some of the responses to the challenges we see in society are in a systematically deepened and improved cooperation between schools, healthcare, social services, elderly care, culture and civil society. I also think that there are elements from the other side, if you call it that, with similar ideas. During the year of the alliance government, cooperation between the public sector and civil society was deepened, including through an investigation for a strengthened civil society. The government should make better use of the experience of that work, as we see it. A functioning democracy requires a strong civil society. Without a living civil society, citizens are reduced to voters, workers and consumers. If we restrict civil society to the enforcement of government directives, we risk suffocating the unique contribution of the many organisations to our society. For us Christian Democrats, civil society is one of the foundations of society – family, non-profit organisations, village teams, cooperatives, foundations, communities, trade unions, economic associations and political parties. The non-profit organisations are central to democracy, and through their work they maintain democratic traditions as well as knowledge of freedom of association and assembly and opinion formation. Mr President, I would like to Finally, not all voluntary associations are a good thing. Organisations whose members commit, or encourage, criminal acts become a matter for the judiciary. We want to tighten up the legislation and make it criminal to be associated with terrorist organisations or other criminal organisations. It also needs to be ensured that no public contribution goes to extremist organisations and that funds unduly paid are recovered. The Christian Democrats want to see a more independent non-profit sector, less of detailed governance in the provision of grants and more of basic support. Through the gift tax deduction, the organisations increased their independence. We want to reintroduce the gift tax deduction and develop it. One of my alliance partners wanted the same thing, so we should be able to agree on it. It should be stated that there is a strong voluntary commitment of people in our country. We've heard that described. There is a movement based on ideality and voluntaryity. Our Swedish peoples' movement tradition is still alive and well. We have heard about 2015, but I would also like to mention what happened after 7 April last year. I was in Sergel's square after the terrorist attack, and we saw a sea of flowers. We saw police cars, even those covered with flowers as a thank you for the great effort the police had made. What I would like to mention is also the warmth and the sense of community that existed at the time. There are probably more of us who were there and who felt that there were no sharp elbows, but there was a kind of respect for each other. I wish it was always like that, but after a while you go back to your normal behavior, I was about to say. But let us try to have more respect and show more warmth to each other. It's an appeal. I'll finish with a little n thought from Tage Danielsson before we go out in the spring sun: We fill time closely, with haste and ID and usually life, to save time. But when, in time, the time of life has lasted — where do we have the time that we have saved?
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-612	Mr President, I would like to Daily people meet in non-profit associations and foundations, in popular movements and communities, in cooperatives, action groups and networks. They meet to realise their ideas, develop the community and defend their interests. In these meetings people are given the opportunity to develop their inner potential and grow together with others. The freedom to organise, the freedom to speak and the freedom to be a member, or not, is one of the most important prerequisites for a strong democracy. It is therefore not an exaggeration to note that a strong and vibrant civil society is the basis of a democracy. Good and long-term conditions for peoples' movements and civil society are therefore of great importance. This leads to more people being able to organise themselves and better opportunities for the idea-based organisations to develop. This leads to greater cohesion and trust in society. Anyone who wants to be able to participate in civil society organisations, regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation and gender identity. Nor should the size of the wallet determine the ability to interact with others. Mr President, I would like to With civil society's different roles as voice carriers, opinion-formers and the most important democracy school, there are also great demands. It is important that civil society does not become a place where undemocratic forces can act. Politics, like the sector itself, has an important responsibility to ensure that tax funds are not used for activities that can be discriminatory and are in conflict with democracy and human rights. That is why it is very important that the government has begun work to review the democracy criteria in various forms of government funding also to civil society. It also mentions the work of the agency MUCF, which since 2016 has strengthened the application of the democracy criterion and rejected a number of applications for state grants. Mr President, I would like to At a time when growing mistrust and populism are trying to take root in our society and around us and when there are clear attempts to displace important democratic progress, the strength of civil society is crucial. It takes courage and strength to keep the undemocratic forces away and to preserve and develop democracy. It is not surprising, therefore, that in countries such as Hungary and Poland, where democratic development is going in the wrong direction, civil society organisations are being attacked and given worse conditions. These are attacks aimed at sowing doubts, breaking down dissidents and, in the long term, weakening democracy. It is a dangerous development that must be combated, nationally and internationally, and it requires political awareness of the importance of a strong civil society. Mr President, I would like to Swedish civil society is in many ways unique in the world, and it is a huge resource for our society that so many people choose to engage on a voluntary basis. It has undoubtedly played a major role in the development of society in our country and in the construction of the Swedish model. Civil society and peoples' movements have always played a central role in demonstrating social problems and in creating common solutions to the various problems that have arisen, as demonstrated not least in 2015 in connection with the large reception of refugees, which today shows itself in the commitment to inclusion and integration. Many of our publicly managed and funded welfare services today are based on ideas, also called social innovations, which were started by idea-driven ones. For example, folk high schools, the Milk Drop which later became the BVC, preschool and libraries can be mentioned. Even in today's society, peoples' movements highlight shortcomings in the construction of society and find new solutions. We have the Matte Center, the Yallatrappa, the Missing People and many more. However, the social economy, as civil society entrepreneurship is often called, does not come automatically as a result of a strong civil society. It arises from rules of the game that at least do not disadvantage idea-based stakeholder organisations compared to ordinary private companies. Public sector cooperation has proved to be important here. In municipalities such as Gothenburg and Malmö it has been shown that there is a great political will to find different forms of collaboration with the non-profit sector, mainly through IOP, an idea-based public partnership. IOP is a model of collaboration between the public sector and the idea-driven sector. The Forum, the umbrella organisation of ideas-based social organisations, developed the 2010 model to enable problem-solving between sectors for a sustainable society. The model has been shown to be successful, and more and more municipalities today choose to include this form of collaboration with the idea-based sector. In order for the social economy to become a larger part of the national economy, the government has made several important efforts in recent years. In February, the Government established the Sustainable Society Strategy through social enterprise and social innovation. The strategy aims to strengthen the development of social enterprises so that they can better participate in solving societal challenges. It will also help the public sector to recognise and use social enterprise and social enterprises as valuable actors in the development of a sustainable society. For this, the government has decided to invest SEK 150 million. Nor, of course, should it be forgotten that there will soon be a letter for civil society based on the Palett report on strengthening civil society, a letter which will also have a major impact on improving and pointing out what conditions are important for this sector. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to touch on the religions. One of our fundamental rights and freedoms is freedom of religion, and all people should have the right to practice their religion. The religions, however, bear a common responsibility for establishing respect for different beliefs and for safeguarding democracy and the equal value of all people. In order to ensure that the state's support for the religions is adapted to present and future needs and that the democratic criteria are up-to-date, the government set up an investigation, which is now in the process of being consulted. The fact that there are clear democratic criteria in place is of great importance both to the faiths themselves and to ensuring that tax money is used properly and does not go to objectives that are contrary to our fundamental democratic values. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-630	Mr President, I would like to Our constitution is clear. Public power must be exercised with respect for the equal value of all people. Unfortunately, the application in all parts has not been as clear. I am thinking, among other things, of grants to religious communities. Despite the fact that the problems have been known for many years, it is only now with a red-green government and with an environmental-party minister of culture that we are dealing with the problems and going forward with a tightening of the regulatory framework for contributions to religious communities. An investigation has looked at the conditions of the religions and put forward proposals for so-called exclusion grounds, i.e. events that cannot be accepted if a religious community is to be able to receive grants. All the proposed exclusion grounds are extremely relevant and important. The question is whether they are sufficiently clearly worded. We will hopefully receive answers to this question in the current referral. Among other things, it is proposed that religious communities that violate children's rights in ways that risk significantly harming children's health and development should not receive subsidies. Of course, such rules must exist, and of course it must mean in the interpretation that a religious community that, for example, does not accept that children are given blood transfusions should not be able to receive benefits. The government is continuing to work on the issue, and the work initiated by the government will end. Therefore, the motions that have been raised here to commission the government to work on the issues can be rejected. In order not to spread the same misconceptions on the issue as we saw in previous exercise treatments regarding the appointment of the government to come back with stricter legislation on child marriage, it is important to make it clear that rejection of these exercises is not a question of disparaging the issue and not seeing it as serious. It is a question of having confidence that the government will finish the work that the government has initiated. It is not only the rules for religious communities that need to be tightened up, it is also a matter of regulations regarding contributions to other parts of civil society. It is not about a nice attitude towards association grants, it is about giving legitimacy to a strong system of grants. As many have said, civil society is a cornerstone of our society, and civil society must be given good economic conditions. But we should never accept that subsidies are given to associations or organisations that work in violation of our most important democratic principles.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-637	Mr President, I would like to Cultural heritage consists of what previous generations have created and how we today perceive, interpret and pass on. Cultural heritage is not static but is constantly changing and reformulated. Each time forms its own idea of what is cultural heritage and what it means. Mr President, I would like to This is neither the government's definition nor something I have come up with, but it is how the concept of cultural heritage is explained by Wikipedia. This is precisely about cultural heritage as something that is constantly changing, reformulated and also re-evaluated, I think is central. Cultural heritage is not something that can easily be defined or closed in. It's in constant motion. Art and culture are in essence inclusive, dynamic, changing, urban, open and accommodating. It is therefore also our cultural heritage. The only boundaries that cultural heritage sets are those who want to shut out and define one or the other expression as more pure, genuine or exclusive. The Swedish cultural heritage is simply the cultural heritage that has emerged in Sweden, but with impressions and expressions from all over the world. Without transparency and globalisation, there is no Swedish cultural heritage. That is why it is also important to mark against those who want to set limits. By standing up for transparency, we care for the legacy of previous generations, and we take responsibility for those who live here today and for those who will be our future. Cultural heritage is in this context a foundation that creates security in a world that is now anything but secure. We all have a responsibility to stand up for this. 2018 is Europe's cultural heritage year, but one could say that we in Sweden can also look back on 2017 as a real cultural heritage year. The cultural heritage bill presented by the government last year has given many opportunities to discuss and debate cultural heritage and to address both praise and criticism. Today we have to deal with a motion report on the exercise of the last period of exercise, and I will therefore focus on the exercise that the Moderates have brought about and which concerns the underground cultural heritage. Mr President, I would like to The first line of the first book of Herman Lindqvist's extensive Swedish history begins with the following sentence: In the beginning Skåne was – point! I say this not only as a show but because this sentence goes back to when the inland ice first let go of its grip about 10 000 years ago. Shortly thereafter, the first people came to Sweden. The first thing that existed in Sweden of human footprint was therefore immigration. The oldest objects we are digging up today are dated to about 3000 years before Kristus, about 5,000 years old. We have a rich and extensive underground cultural heritage that carries unique stories about our country and how it has developed. This heritage will be nurtured and protected for future generations. At the same time, this heritage today faces major challenges. Sweden is growing, and Sweden is growing fast in some places. The need for expansion is great, especially in and around our major cities. Finding a balance between the demands of modern society for new housing and infrastructure and the protection of cultural heritage is often a complex task. Assessments across the country can shift, which can create a sense of arbitrariness among those who are trying to develop our urban society. Often county administrative boards are allowed to dress shots for this when they are perceived as brake blocks. This has meant many and in some cases unnecessarily sharp conflicts between the state and the municipality. This applies not only to underground heritage but also to what we build over the ground. At the moment, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, together with the Committee on Civil Affairs, is dealing with a new policy on the design of living environments, in which we are trying to reconcile the need for rapid and inexpensive expansion with the need for sustainable habitats, where we will also fill the gaps between people with valuable content. But this also applies to what lies deep in the ground below our feet – our shared cultural heritage. The Committee on Culture notes in its report that this is an area governed by different regulatory frameworks and that responsibility is shared between different actors, and stresses the need for cross-sectoral responsibility and work that can contribute to greater convergence of views. In doing so, the committee also refers to the work that has just been carried out on the design of living conditions and the tasks that are being carried out there to several authorities. However, the Moderates believe that a specific review is needed to ensure a long-term balance between different interests in the regulations that the county administrative boards have to apply. The aim should be to improve the conditions for construction while safeguarding important parts of underground cultural heritage. It must be possible to develop our future while safeguarding our history. With this, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 4.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-651	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 5 and 9. It's the voice of the people to be heard, when you read these notes – so said folk life researcher Olof Hasslöf about the Institute for Language and Memorial Collections. The Swedish Democrats value the intangible cultural heritage highly. The work of individuals, civil society and, for example, the Institute for Languages and People's Memories in collecting and making available our intangible cultural heritage is invaluable in the present and for future generations. This applies to the Swedish but also to the Estonian, Finnish, Toredal and Sami intangible cultural heritage. The Institute for Languages and Folk Memories collects, preserves and researches dialects, local names, personal names and folk memories. They also work with language care and language policy. The task is to liven up, disseminate knowledge and give advice on language issues. We believe that the level of ambition of the intangible cultural heritage should be increased, particularly with regard to the work relating to the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Intellectual Heritage. The government should review the possibilities of providing additional resources to speed up work on the national list and the nominations for the international lists in order to ensure that our intangible cultural heritage is protected and preserved for future generations. The Swedish Democrats advocate, among other things, the strengthening of the Institute for Languages and the presence of folk memory in northern Sweden, especially after the end of the Dialekt, local name and folk memory archive in Umeå. We also want to commission the Institute, in consultation with the Living History Forum, to build a knowledge base on and evaluate the need for measures to preserve the intangible and material cultural heritage of the visually impaired and deaf. Furthermore, the ecclesiastical cultural heritage is something we safeguard and see as important from several perspectives. For example, Swedish architecture is an area strongly coloured by our Christian heritage, mainly through our around 3,400 Swedish churches. Many of them have a peculiar appearance that is not found in churches in other countries. It is the Church of Sweden that manages these ancient properties and preserves them so that future generations can also take part of them. The extensive secularisation of the last century has resulted in many choosing to leave the Church of Sweden and thus refrained from paying church fees, which has resulted in a large reduction in the resources of the Church of Sweden. The Swedish Church fears that it will not have sufficient resources to care for all churches and that churches that are decommissioned will be allowed to decay. This means in practice that Sweden's largest aggregate physical cultural heritage that is still used for its original purpose is threatened. Although the Cultural Environment Act is being tightened, the administrative burden of these cultural-historical properties is on an organisation that will in future have insufficient resources to provide for these if the Swedish Church's current membership development continues. We therefore want to see a national action plan on how to ensure the protection of ecclesiastical cultural heritage in the future. Mr President, I would like to Culture is a building block and a supporting pillar for how stable we manage to maintain well-being and trust between people and in authorities and institutions. Protecting the bond with the past is safeguarding the right to think freely.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-661	Mr President, I would like to Access to a broad cultural life throughout the country is our top priority in terms of culture and cultural heritage. It stands in stark contrast to the government's reform of free admission for adults at state museums, mainly the state museums located in Stockholm City. Instead, from the Center Party, we want to invest in increasing the accessibility of state museums throughout the country, for example through digitalisation and exhibitions on tour. For the Center Party it is self-evident that all children and young people, regardless of economic conditions, where they live or what functional conditions they have should be able to take part in the state culture. It is therefore important that culture is made available throughout the country. For us in the Center Party, this is not just about the cultural heritage that fits within state institutions. It is at least as much about the cultural heritage of the whole country. There are nationally interesting and important cultural heritage in many parts of our country. State responsibility for cultural heritage and our history must therefore not remain at the border of the big city. We must also see the many cultural heritage that exists as an opportunity to be part of the development of the regions and society in which they are found. Cultural heritage exists throughout our country, and it is worth preserving and highlighting. But we need to be better at highlighting important cultural heritage also on a national level – even those that are not in Stockholm's direct vicinity. Cultural heritage can be linked to a specific geographical location such as the Kingdom of Crystal in Småland. The glass and its manufacture is an important cultural heritage for Sweden, both as utility objects and as art objects. The initiative at Glasriket will be an opportunity to both preserve and highlight the cultural heritage of glass and its industry is and at the same time develop the Småland region as well as to see the opportunity to market Sweden on an international level. In short, there is potential throughout the country, and there is considerable competence in the field of cultural heritage across the country. At the same time, today much national expertise is still in big cities, especially in our capital city. Much of the knowledge that is available in the lan it should come to more. Perhaps we can create a model that allows us to highlight excellence where it is located in the country, in cooperation between the regions and the state. Why not create a new model for national cultural policies that builds on the ideas that have made the collaborative model a success, a culture cooperation model for the national level? Then perhaps we could see the Rockarkivet in Hultsfred as the national concern it actually is: as an important cultural heritage and a source of knowledge about Sweden's rich popular music history. The fact that the archive is located in Hultsfred and not in Stockholm must not mean that it is a regional matter for the Kalmar region? Not everything of national interest has to be in Stockholm, is it? Mr President, I would like to The mobile cultural heritage involves many people in our country. It could be a moped, a tractor or maybe that car you dreamed of as a child. It may be a steam engine or an aircraft of historical value. It could be a sailboat from the last century, when the 19th century became the 20th century, or a plastic boat from the 1970s. The common thing is that it is vehicles that have been used and transported people and goods around our country, history carriers from a time when our society became increasingly mobile. Every weekend and almost every everyday evening during the bright season there are events around our country where the moving cultural heritage is recognised and not least used. Many spend much of their free time preserving these jewels for posterity. It is nonprofit forces that renovate cars, boats and airplanes and run museum railways and museums for these jewels. At the same time, it creates jobs and entrepreneurship in many ways. It's the sale of spare parts. It is mechanics, workshops and boat yards with specialist knowledge. It is tourist attractions that generate trade, restaurant visits and hotel overnight stays. All of this is often created in smaller towns and in rural areas, so in addition to some of the important preservation of the mobile cultural heritage, it is also part of a living countryside and an opportunity for the whole country to live. But this work has not always received the appreciation it is worth. There are examples that both political decisions and regulatory interpretations by public authorities have been obstacles and have even led to the loss of cultural heritage objects. In order to preserve the mobile cultural heritage, it also needs to be used and developed. It is part of our history that would disappear if not all the non-profit forces existed. In connection with the handling of the cultural heritage bill a year ago, the Riksdag also decided on an announcement concerning the moving cultural heritage. The announcement states that the Government will urgently produce legislation establishing the obligations and responsibilities of public authorities for historical means of transport by land, sea and air so that they can ensure, in the exercise of their authority, that the mobile cultural heritage is not deliberately or unintentionally prevented from being used or damaged or even destroyed. Mr President, I would like to There is still a destruction of the mobile cultural heritage. There are still major problems for the mobile cultural heritage to be used and found in our society. So far, the Government has commissioned the National Antiquarie Office to investigate and present the conditions for legislation to protect the mobile cultural heritage in 2018. This is good, but it does not go fast enough and hardly covers the breadth needed to protect and safeguard the mobile cultural heritage. Here I want more power, muscle, understanding and knowledge from the government. But I think we'll have to wait for that until after the fall elections.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-673	Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse Amendment No 1 so that I have done so, otherwise I will probably forget about it. Perhaps some of you here in the Chamber had the privilege of being at the President's spring dinner yesterday. If you were there, maybe you were also down in the Bank Hall mingling a little bit. Perhaps you saw during the mingling that a picture of Nils Edén was there. I hear you all know what I'm talking about right now. 2018 has been 100 years since Sweden became a democracy. There is every reason to pay attention to the man who more than anyone else has the merit of Sweden becoming democratic. Nils Edén was a liberal history professor and politician who led a liberal-social-democratic government during the dramatic years 1917–1920. Then Sweden became a democracy. Women were given the right to vote, and municipal voting was no longer graduated. The Parliament's first chamber became democratic, its second chamber as well. There was a big and intense reform work – eight hours of working day were decided and so on. For this reason, and for many more, we Liberals believe that the Riksdag should highlight and honour Nils Edén's works through a permanent reminder – a bust or similar – and that Nils Edén's works should be given special attention in 2018. More people than those who attended the President's spring dinner should have the opportunity to learn more about this man and about the history that he stands for. Then, 100 years ago, Sweden was on the brink of a bloody revolution. Food shortages and political inequality led to riots. In Gustav Adolf square here in Stockholm there were bloody riots while the Riksdag was debating the universal suffrage. Instead of the state's power being won by force, Sweden engaged in peaceful democratic development with these reforms in 1917–1921. In a situation where we are now, where democracy in many places is called into question, celebration and manifestation should be a central Swedish task in a troubled world. It was precisely 1918 that after a long struggle and great resistance, the Swedish Parliament decided that our country would have equal and universal suffrage for both women and men. It was after a long struggle against both the royal power and the political right that liberals and social democrats managed to push through universal and equal suffrage. Taking democracy for granted is perhaps the greatest threat to which it can be exposed. In Sweden, democracy is challenged by extremism from the right and left, by militant Islamism as well as by threats and violence against elected representatives and officials. But democracy is also challenged by a reduction in commitment. The Government has commissioned the City of Malmö to plan for a migration and democracy museum. We may think that migration issues and the history of migration deserve an institution of our own. Many who have come to Sweden have fled from oppression and persecution to Swedish democracy. Hopefully this will be a starting point for the museum in Malmö. Another important policy area when it comes to democracy is minority policy, where language is an important part of cultural heritage. We have Sami, Swedish Finns, tornadoes, Roma and Jews who have all developed their culture on Swedish soil for a very long time. We Liberals want this to be made visible by referring to national minorities and minority languages in the Constitution. This will also ensure that major changes in minority policy are preceded by careful reflection. It is necessary, because this is something that is constantly being questioned. Mr President, I would like to I'm going to take a few minutes to talk about something completely different – something that most probably don't have that great track but which is extremely interesting. I'm going to talk about Kvarntorpshögen. It is Sweden's largest industrial monument, the history of which started in 1939, when it was found that the shale in the area had a high oil content. Oil was something you liked and wanted more of. Thus, in 1940 it began to wonder whether an oil shale plant could be set up, which was then done in 1942. Then they went on until 1966. While the production was in progress, Kvarntorp smell was something everyone in the area knew about. Nearly 36,000 tons of sulphur was distributed from the chimneys. The pine trees in the area died, and the deciduous trees were defoliated. The rust attacks were so severe that those living in the houses around Kvarntorp tell us that their tractors and fences rusted. They also talk about how cows were killed by stones when it was blown up. The red dust could not ever be cleaned up. Eventually Supra AB took over and produced ammonia from residual and waste oils until the beginning of the 1980s. In addition to having the 100 - meter - high [100 - m] pile, the area was badly polluted and destroyed. In 1982 the municipality of Kumla took over the area, and since then a solid work has been done to develop the area into a recreational and outdoor area. There is, among other things, a permanent exhibition, Art on High, which attracts an enormous number of tourists and visitors to the area. There are also bets on concerts on the pile. Many choose to train in the area. You can defeat the stairs – the wooden staircase with 427 steps going up to the top, 157 meters above sea level. You're supposed to run 10 laps if you want to defeat the stairs. I can tell you that one lap is enough; then you do not want to do more. The whole pile is very hot. Measurements show that there are still about 700 degrees in it. It's unstable, and it's falling a little close. It is of course a danger to those who are walking around up there, even if there are signs with the text Don't go here, because your shoes will melt! We cannot guarantee that everyone can read the signs either. We know the pile will go out, but we don't know when. When it does, it will release a huge amount of extremely unpleasant substances, including uranium. Figures of about three tonnes a year have been mentioned. While this is a future environmental bomb, the pile is an industrial memory of rank. It is unique in its kind. Here is the completely intact dining room from the past and many other memories from an industrial era in Sweden that is now bygone. I read from the book Art on High – re-visited with text by Stefan Nilsson : The ash pile is at once a sad monument to imperative circumstances and brutal human progress, a smoking Blåkulla for real. Today, more and more people are beginning to appreciate the pile. The great wounds in the people's soul that it created when it was built, or rather built up, with memories of the sulfur smell and the red dust in every corner slowly heal, and it is done through art and culture. That is why this is an important issue for us today.
i-HGF1davovYc2rg7qnSTWvV	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask you to accept Amendment No 6. Cultural heritage has become a policy area of its own, and in a changing world its own cultural identity means more and more. At the same time, the EU's 2018 Cultural Heritage Year is underway to strengthen the European identity in, as it is called, a world of diversity. It is therefore not only Swedish but also European. What I'm saying now is not about shutting anyone out, but I think a cultural identity is important. Culture often means something in times of difficulty. A good example, I mean, is the Russian culture, which is so excellent with ballet, circus, composer and writer of the highest rank. You can't stifle culture, no more than religion. In the cultural heritage debate a year ago, from the Alliance, we had the following wording: Why am I mentioning this? Because I think it's so beautiful. And we who work in culture appreciate beauty. The first chapter of the curriculum under the heading: Inviolability of human life, freedom and integrity of the individual, equal value of all people, equality between women and men, and solidarity with weak and vulnerable are the values that the school should express and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. I don't know where this is described as beautifully as it does in the curriculum. It is therefore about our fundamental values. Together with Western humanism, Christian ethics and values have played a crucial role as cultural bearers and shapers of our democracy. I had a change of line in this House with the then representative of the Left Party, who said that it is not in the churches that we find the cultural workers. I had to remind the person about Johann Sebastian Bach. Then we went forward to our day with concerts in churches, a huge amount of choirs and so on. Mr President, I would like to S venska A kademien has sunk below the bottom, said the greatest newspaper's cultural editor on television, and the evening press's ditto demanded high morale. On the radio show Good morning, the world! an expert called on to argue that morals and ethics are extremely urgent today. We can hope that the current electoral movement will contain a substantial portion of how we people should live together and what values and values it is that make life easier and relations between us more harmonious. The time has passed when morality was almost regarded as nonsense and freedom was presented as boundless. It's like the stones are crying. Metoo, in an almost miraculous way, highlighted the abuse that women have suffered around the world. We had a major seminar on this earlier today. It was very interesting to hear representatives of Kultursverige describe how to deal with these issues and how to from outside where you are right now try to take into account what has happened. I think it was very hopeful. It was a fantastic seminar that we had. This is a radical revolution that has forever changed the world. That's what I think and hope. "Nothing is any more like before, all the old truths are over, and Anders Fugelstad sang back in the 1970s. Even then, then, the truths were over, but that can't be. Man is quite the same. The legacy we carry with us we often want to revolt against, but the really old truths about an ethics that guides and helps man will, I believe, live also in the future. What's yours is yours, what's mine is mine, but we need each other, and we need to respect each other. When I studied history at the university to become a teacher, I understood the development we have experienced in this country. Christina Örnebjär described the beginning of the 20th century. I just think like this: How grand what has happened is! What a country we have! It's been built by people, politicians. Here in the Chamber of Parliament and in the First and Second Chambers, political decisions have been built. People have worked, and important decisions have been made throughout the ages. Some political parties can take on much of the credit for what has happened over the past 100 years. My father had two cousins who worked in the old Parliament building. They were liberals. At that time everyone on the islands outside Gothenburg were liberals or peoples' parties. That's not really true anymore. We are building on this. We have a cultural heritage that we are building on for the next generation. We're here now, and we're building ahead. Democracy must be built in every new generation.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-708	Mr President, I would like to All of us sitting in here and also all the people outside this House are part of a legacy from generations back. We all carry stories and tell you from different parts of Sweden and the world, and we all have a voice and an opportunity to replenish this heritage for future generations. My story and my story are not unique, but it's mine. The fact is that part of my history is in what we are referring to today as the House of Parliament east. These are b stories about Annie and Adolf Wallentheim, who were married and who were both members of parliament but sat in each chamber. Thanks to the seating board in the First Chamber, I know exactly what chair Annie had: Chair No. 18. At regular intervals, I go there, sit down and breathe. Last week I brought my own daughter here to Parliament. Of course, she had the chance to sit in my chair in this chamber. These are small stories about my family and family – so safe stories that no one but me and my relatives cares about. But it's my legacy, and I'm proud of it. Mr President, I would like to Today we are in the Chamber to discuss the report on cultural heritage. It is a report which deals with 80 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise concerning, among other things, state aid to certain museums, cultural environments and the recognition of crimes against humanity. Last year we experienced something unique in this House when we debated and decided on the n first cultural heritage bill ever presented in the Swedish Parliament – a propo-sition that for the first time took a holistic approach to cultural heritage as its own policy area. In this context, cultural heritage policy will contribute to making the common cultural heritage a concern for all, to broadening and deepening public dialogue and to promoting co-creation and commitment. As a social democrat, I am incredibly proud of our government and of the fact that we have so clearly raised cultural heritage on a cultural policy agenda. It also makes me very proud that we have opened up these taxes through, for example, the free admission reform. I am also pleased to hear my political opponents speak of cultural heritage with such warmth. Mr President, I would like to The bill also presented overall priorities with a number of concrete proposals, including a museum team. The Museum Act entered into force on 1 August 2017 and regulates public controlled museums. It provides for museums to contribute to society and its development. They do this by promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation. The purpose of the law is, among other things, to make the museums independent and clarify who is in charge of the content of the museum activities, so that, for example, we politicians cannot influence what the museums should show and not. Last Tuesday I had the privilege of visiting the spring museum in Malmö. There the museis were raised by several people during several points you. The Museum Act is a welcome law for the museums concerned, as it is believed that the professional independence of the museums is finally established. But this, of course, is something that also requires work and reflection. That is why it feels extra safe since last summer also has the task of promoting development and cooperation in the mu sei area, both by collecting and conveying knowledge but also by offering technical and methodological support. The museums play a central role in preserving, developing and using our cultural heritage. For many people, the activities of museums are crucial to the possibility of taking part in our cultural heritage. The museums are needed, and it is among others we politicians, at national, regional or municipal level, that can provide the right conditions for museums. Mr President, I would like to The report also contains some reservations from the other parties. These include the underground cultural heritage, the ecclesiastical cultural heritage, the Museum of Democracy, the Kingdom of Crystal, v at ten activities such as cultural memory and more. Many of the reservations have a good spirit and good intentions. However, in some cases they apply to work that the government is already engaged in in one way or another. For example, underground cultural heritage, where, like the exercisers and the Moderates, we feel it is important to find a balance between the need to build new homes and to protect our treasures underground. As a social democrat, I am therefore pleased that the government in its proposal 'Policy for the Designated Living Environment' addresses, among other things, this issue and the question of responsibility. It's very complex. This is something we will be debating later this year, when we are going to deal with the bill. Another example is the idea of a democracy museum, which among other things the Liberals lift up. It is also a work that is underway, as we have given the Museum of Movements 5 million annually in the budget to work on the issue of democracy. Perhaps we will see a future democracy museum in Malmö. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with the words that we live in a fantastic time, an exciting time but in some ways also a troubled time. Never before have the little stories been as important as now – stories about our history, stories that make us reflect on our time and stories that make us dream of the future. It is our fantastic and rich cultural heritage that accounts for many of these stories. These are stories found in museums, whether we are talking about national museums or about working life museums. But it is also stories that are found in our cultural environments, in our churches and in our fantastic archives. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the National Archives, which actually celebrates 400 years. With those words, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and therefore reject all reservations.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-723	Mr President, I would like to About a year ago, the Riksdag decided on a new, deeper cultural heritage policy, including a completely new museum law. That policy seems to have landed very well in the sector, and we now also see that gunpowder smoke has begun to disperse in politics – there is not a single reservation in the report that more than one party is behind. It must be regarded as a very good rating of government policy. I also note that there is a growing interest in cultural heritage issues in our society. At the library fair in Gothenburg, I noticed that the most popular seminars were often those dealing with these kinds of issues, and I have also been amazed at how many people even have their DNA analysed in order to somehow derive their own genetic origin. Most of the time, of course, you find that you have an origin in many parts of the world. What we need to be clear about, however, is that the concept of cultural heritage, like technology and much more, can be used by both good and bad. We see forces trying to use cultural heritage to whip a nationalist stream. We are even seeing how political leaders in Europe are trying to look back at conflicts that took place 600 years ago to motivate new wars and throw their people into them. But we also see the good: how increased knowledge of cultural heritage creates increased tolerance, greater solidarity and greater understanding of democracy. This year we are celebrating a very important centenary in Sweden. It was in 1918, 100 years ago, that our representatives here in Parliament took a very important decision in the democratisation process in Sweden, namely to introduce universal suffrage for both women and men. This is something we must help to highlight and clarify in order to increase knowledge about the democratisation process in Sweden, but also to increase knowledge and understanding that our democracy is on a fragile foundation. It cannot be taken for granted. For many decades we thought we could take it for granted. At the beginning of the 70's, a minority of the world's countries were still democracies, but during the 70's, 80's and 90's it was like a flood of democratisation processes sweeping the world. More and more countries became democracies, and it was a tidal wave we probably didn't think would be stopped or stopped. In recent years, however, we have seen the setbacks coming and have seen countries dedemocratic even in our immediate vicinity. This is not something we are immune to in Sweden; it can happen here too. Perhaps one of the main vaccines against such a development is knowledge. Our museums are important knowledge institutions, which often in an excellent way bring history to life and bring its collections to life. They arouse interest and commitment with their stories. The important task we have on the political side is to lower the thresholds into the museums, so that more groups visit them. With increased knowledge, too, there is often a greater understanding that cultural heritage is not static but that our cultural heritage is constantly changing. What is seen today as challenging contemporary art or what we see as exotic elements in our everyday lives can tomorrow be completely obvious parts of Swedish cultural heritage. If it is something we have learned from the recent conflicts within the Swedish Academy, it is that traditions are not necessarily good to maintain just because they are old. Sometimes we need to air out and take a new hold. But what we must always do then is preserve knowledge and ensure that collective memories have the potential to live on. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-731	Mr President, I would like to We must take this opportunity to try to spread as much knowledge as possible about the organisation of the Interparliamentary Union. This is the last chance during this parliamentary term, so I was going to send some information to those who are going to come forward in the autumn – so that they have something with them and hopefully a better understanding of what this means. I shall therefore begin by trying to be a little educational, Mr President, with the hope that continuation will follow. During the parliamentary term 2014– 2018, the IPU delegation has the following composition:
i-PeLQpQwMyYDyvZDhpYYjfr	All of the members of the IPU delegation have prominent positions within the permanent committees and working groups of the IPU. I have had the privilege of being an internal auditor and also chairing the IPU parliamentary steering group on WTO issues. First Vice-President Anti Avsan is Chairman of the IPU Permanent Committee on UN Affairs and member of the Advisory Group on Counter-Terrorism and Violent Extremism, established during the year in cooperation between the IPU and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. Second Vice-President Monica Green is a member of the IPU Committee for the Promotion of Respect for International Humanitarian Law. Ulrika Karlsson is a member of the IPU Advisory Working Group on Health. Teres Lindberg is a board member of the permanent IPU Committee for Sustainable Development, Finance and Trade. It was a long list, and I would now just like to try to explain that this is not a coincidence. One could say that the work started in 2006 with the fact that we got a permanent delegation of five people. The permanent delegation has succeeded in making an impression within the framework of the IPU organisation, and those impressions have in turn enabled these people to be assigned assignments. Many other countries still have the old system that we once had, where people are constantly being replaced. This makes it difficult for a country to make an impression, and then it is difficult to get positions. With this introduction, I would like to say the following: I myself will not run for office, nor Mr Avsan and Monica Green, but I very much hope that those who come after us in the autumn will be able – together with the other two Members – to find themselves in the same situation that we have had the privilege of being in during this period. Mr President, I would like to During 2017, delegation meetings were held on several occasions. The meetings were largely devoted to substantive issues and preparations for the two annual IPU meetings. The Swedish IPU delegation is also the board of the Parliament's interparliamentary group, which has the privilege of managing the Braathen Foundation. The Interparliamentary Group also held its usual annual meeting during the year. During the year, the IPU delegation organised several seminars in the Riksdag to highlight current issues. The main work within the IPU and for the Swedish delegation is carried out before and during the two annual assemblies. Mr President, I would like to The IPU now has 178 Member States. So it is 15 less than the UN has – if I am properly informed. It is not an end in itself; it demonstrates the strength of our work and makes it possible, hopefully, to extend and improve democracy in the world and in the parliaments. Issues that have been in focus in 2017 have included reducing inequalities and contributing to increased well-being for all linked to SDG 10, the role of parliaments in intervention in sovereign states' internal affairs in serious violations of human rights and increased international cooperation on the Agenda 2030 objectives, with particular emphasis on the inclusion of women as catalysts for economic development. The IPU has also addressed issues relating to the situation of the minority population rohingya, the promotion of cultural diversity and peace through dialogue between cultures, religions and beliefs, cybersecurity, the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the role of the private sector in promoting renewable energy. As you can see from that list, the mission has expanded considerably since the organization was formed 125 years ago. It's good and bad. This means that the ambitions of the Member States have increased. But to be able to do this, you also have to have muscles. By muscle, I mean staff, but ultimately also financial resources. It can be said that the wishes far exceed the availability of capital. And that's something we need to work on long-term. Sweden has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to these conditions. With the help of Sida support we have come in a situation where we can help the organization with 10 percent of their budget. So we are a great power in the organization. That is why it is even more necessary to ensure that we have people in positions that lead us to think, with good reason, that it is well-invested money. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish IPU delegation has continued to maintain a high level of ambition. It has included active participation in the drafting of resolutions and in committees and working groups in connection with the IPU's annual spring and autumn assemblies. In 2017, they took place in Dhaka, where we were privileged to include the President as our leader, and in St Petersburg, Russia. In 2017, it was also 125 years since the Swedish Parliament became a member of the IPU, and the 125-year membership of the organisation has been recognised through various activities in the Riksdag. One activity was to create this book, which I am now showing to Members of this House. It is not new, it is modernized and updated. I was going to hand it over to the President symbolically, with an extra page reference. I recommend page 8. Not without reason – I think the President will recognize himself. The delegation intends to continue working actively in 2018 for democracy and human rights, gender equality, international peace and security, sustainable development and, not least, cooperation with the UN, which is high on the agenda. I would like to thank everyone with whom I have had the privilege of working together, in this organisation and here in Parliament, both elected representatives and employees. I would particularly like to mention Helena Lundstedt and Björn Sondén, who are the ones who are currently helping us to succeed so well. I want to thank you very much for this time. I wish those who will be elected in the autumn all the happiness. I think – there, the President will have to help – that they are in a position to succeed. But we'd be grateful if we didn't have to change staff. That would greatly facilitate the shift.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-746	( THE President: The President agrees with the good words. )
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-747	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the annual letter of the Swedish delegation to the Union for the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, PA-UfM. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal to add the letter to the file. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, PA ‐ UfM, is a meeting place for MEPs from the Euro-Mediterranean countries. It aims to bring peace, stability and prosperity around the Mediterranean. I am a member of the delegation, and I am also Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Women's Rights. Olle Thorell, who would have made this speech, is the chairman of the Swedish delegation and usually makes speeches in these debates in an excellent way. However, as he has been prevented from participating in today's debate, I have been asked to report on how the work in the delegation has continued in 2017. Mr President, I would like to I will take this opportunity to share some thoughts about the way forward. For this reason, I would like to report that I may be slightly exceeding the time allocated to me. During the year, as in previous years, work in PA-UfM continued at a relatively low intensity. This has to a large extent to do with the organisation's administrative shortcomings and inadequate organisation. However, our delegation is working on and takes every opportunity to constructively criticise and propose improvements. These are improvements that we can now see in, for example, the work and organisation of the Committee on Women's Rights. Issues that have been in focus during 2017 have included sustainable development and new jobs in the Mediterranean. During the year, PA-UfM has also addressed issues related to migration flows, project activities in Gaza, innovation issues and strategic research, environment issues related to the promotion of blue jobs and growth in the Mediterranean. Another theme has been the fight against radicalisation, Islamism and Islamophobia. And yet other themes have been young people's prospects, women's participation in decision-making, trafficking and conditions for women in armed conflicts. In 2017, Sweden was elected as a member of the Women's Committee as one of three vice-chairmen, a mission that I now hold. The ambition is to continue with this work. The delegation has also recently conducted a study trip, in April 2018, to Tunisia to show how we in the delegation, despite the shortcomings of the PA-UfM organisation, work for its purposes, i.e. to promote the progress of intercultural dialogue and democracy. Mr President, I would like to As in previous years, there may be few committee meetings within PA ‐ UfM in 2017. The number of meetings varied between committees, and the Economic Committee distinguished itself with a higher frequency of meetings than the other committees. The Swedish members have mainly participated in the committee meetings that were in connection with the assembly session, with the exception of the meeting of the Economic Committee in Lisbon in December, where Olle Thorell and I took part. In 2017, the political committee focused mainly on the implementation of UfM's projects in Gaza and the Euro-Mediterranean agenda for managing migration in the Mediterranean. The committee's annual recommendation is addressed to UfM, the EEAS and the EU as well as to its own Assembly committees and members focused on current challenges such as ongoing conflicts, migration, terrorism and radicalisation. In 2017, the Economic Committee discussed education issues, including Innovation and Higher Education in the Euro-Mediterranean Region and Job Creation – Policy and Joint Projects in the PA-UfM countries. Issues related to Europe's digital future and the Bluemed initiative on strategic research and innovation to create economies of scale and promote blue jobs and growth in the Mediterranean region have also been discussed. During the year, the Committee on the Environment has had issues on the agenda on emissions and pollution, water scarcity, renewable energy, the need for rapid action in refugee areas in terms of water, energy, recycling, waste and so on. During the year, the Committee on Culture has focused on the question of radicalisation and, more specifically, the causes of radicalisation. The Women's Committee has discussed women's participation in decision-making, trafficking and UfM's Worthproject (Women's Right to Health). In addition, two standing themes have been on the agenda: conditions for women in armed conflicts and women and migration. In connection with the assembly session in Rome, I chaired the meeting in the absence of President Chettaouis. As a result, I was also a spokesperson for the committee at the assembly session, where the recommendation was presented and also approved by the assembly.
i-B2ptbfHfd4jfAcxaHq7nHg	The 13th session of the PA-UfM took place on 12 May 2017 in Rome under the Italian Presidency. The main theme was sustainable development and job creation in the Mediterranean. The Assembly session concluded with the handing over of the rotating Presidency to the Egyptian Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Today it is a matter of reporting back, but of course it is the future and the current year that we are focusing on. Preparations for this year's Assembly Session, which will take place in Cairo on April 28 - 29, are in full swing. At the same time, the summit of the Presidents of the Member States is taking place. During the visit, the Swedish PA-UfM delegation will participate in a study visit programme organised by the Swedish Embassy focusing on gender equality issues, economic inclusion and education in Egypt. Visits to the Swedish Institute in Alexandria and the Anna Lindh Foundation are also planned. In 2018, the delegation intends to seek more dialogue with the Secretariat and relevant Member States in order to promote better organisation and more efficient activities. During 2018, the PA-UfM delegation's ambition is to work actively with the dissemination of information in various ways and to raise debate. This year, a seminar is also planned in the Swedish Parliament entitled Women as Peace Builders – Women's Role and Participation in Peace and Conflict in the Middle East. Finally, Mr President, the delegation looks forward to the coming year and to continuing to report back and debate on its work in Parliament. We would also like to express our famous thanks from the whole delegation to Helena Lundstedt and all the others at RIK who have done a great job of supporting us in our work. Thank you very much.
i-ae2d6e0625e2311f-767	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the annual report on the activities of the Union for the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to ask for your indulgence if I exceed the allotted speaking time. The Moderates agree with the committee's proposal to approve the report and add it to the record. The aim of a debate in this House is to enable Members to exchange views and positions and to disseminate knowledge and information to the public. The Union for the Mediterranean originates from the Barcelona Process, which started with a partnership on the government side between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries starting in 1995. Mr President, I would like to The Union for the Mediterranean is a meeting place for parliamentarians. Its work rests on the Barcelona Declaration with four main orientations on its agenda: politics, the economy, culture and migration. The aim is to strengthen peace and stability in the world, not least in the Mediterranean region, which, in my opinion, has now reached a critical boiling point and is in danger of developing into a serious threat to world peace. Its work is carried out in five parliamentary specialist committees. The committees deal with political, economic, cultural, environmental and women's rights issues. Sweden participates in the Women's Committee as a member and was elected in 2017 as one of three vice-chairmen, as we heard just now. It is also important to point out, Mr President, that the organisation is the only one where Israel and the Palestinian Authority meet, as well as large parts of the Arab world. In 2017, the different work themes were linked to migration flows, environmental and labour issues and growth in the Mediterranean region, radicalisation, Islamism and Islamophobia, trafficking, armed conflicts and more. The Presidency rotated on an annual basis and moved from the Italian Parliament to Egypt in May 2017. The so-called Agency, consisting of a number of Presidents from among the participating countries, is responsible for coordinating the work of the organisation and representing it in relations with other institutions. The Union for the Mediterranean aims to promote peace, democracy and prosperity in the Mediterranean region, as I said earlier, by strengthening regional cooperation and integration between preferably EU countries and a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Since 2003, the Parliamentary Assembly has been a meeting place for parliamentarians from EU countries and partner countries Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Syria, Tunisia and Turkey. The Assembly includes 280 parliamentarians from the participating countries, from the various national parliaments and from the European Parliament. Mr President, I would like to The situation in the eastern Mediterranean is beginning to reach unacceptable levels. The Cyprus problem and Turkey's daily provocations against neighbouring Greece are worrying NATO, the European Union and the United States. The situation in the Western Balkans is no better. Here Russia, Turkey and China have their aspirations. This should be a subject for discussion in the Union for the Mediterranean at the forthcoming meeting. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish delegation consists of three full members and three alternates. The regular is Olle Thorell, the Social Democrats, Eva Lohman, the Moderates and Yasmine Larsson, the Social Democrats. The alternates are Adnan Dibrani, the Social Democrats, Amir Adan, the Moderates and Kalle Olsson, the Social Democrats. I myself have not had the privilege of participating in the delegation, but I have read the reports, interviewed the Swedish delegates and asked for information in a broader perspective. What I have concluded is that the Swedish delegation has been and is very active and driven, and this Parliament and its President should be informed of this. Unfortunately, however, the negative trend continues that work is characterised by inefficiency and lack of organisation, which Sweden is not the cause of. In other words, the situation is unsatisfactory. Mr President, I would like to Not least in these times, a forum of this kind should be an essential driver in the development of a region characterised by complex problems that can lead to greater challenges than today for world peace. The Swedish delegation intends to seek more dialogue with the organisation's secretariat in 2018 and in this way to promote better organisation and more efficient activities within the framework of the organisation's objectives. On this point, there is no conflict whatsoever between the government and my party. On the other hand, the Swedish democrats, faithful to their isolationist dogma, want Sweden to leave the Union for the Mediterranean. I think that would be wrong. Let me conclude my speech by pointing out that Sweden both wants and can play an important role in this extremely sensitive geopolitical area, and it is urgent.
