i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-0	Madam President, I would like This is the third time that the Christian Democrats have asked the Riksdag, for current and urgent reasons, to hold an up-to-date debate on issues relating to personal assistance and LSS. The reason is that in the years that have recently passed, since autumn 2015, we have seen that people in our country – some of them with the most extensive needs – have their support withdrawn and that parents of children born during this period and who have extensive needs, in a chaos of mixed joy and sorrow that they had this child, thought they could rely on the support of society but have realized that it is not there. When they needed it at its best, the aid has fallen. Over the past few months, we have discussed and seen how the legal situation surrounding personal assistance has been further highlighted. When we have passed laws in Parliament, it is then the courts and authorities that will examine them. What has happened with regard to personal assistance is that the law has started to be interpreted differently afterwards – not in the first few years, when the legal situation of legislation is usually stabilised, but decades afterwards. In some cases, a special judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court has begun to be interpreted in a new way by the Authority three years after the judgment came. When we asked for this debate, the court that delivered the judgment has said that it is misinterpreted, but today there is still uncertainty about those who need decisions.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the Christian Democrats, for calling for this debate on a very important subject! The heading – the legal situation for personal assistance – is currently highly relevant. From the outset, this debate would deal with possible additional directives to the ongoing LSS investigation. The debate has now changed the heading, but let me take this opportunity to say how happy I am that a few weeks ago I was able to present new directives. The previous mandate to also put forward proposals for savings has now been deleted. Now the investigator is working on, with full focus on creating a more efficient LSS. Let me say: Gunilla Malmborg has one of Sweden's most important tasks, namely to give us decision-makers the basis for making decisions that make LSS work better and that more people can feel confident that they get the support they need. When I met the government's disability policy council a few weeks ago, one of the representatives said: LSS and assistance are not the whole disability policy, but without LSS and assistance does not work the rest. It's as simple as that. That's why we need to make sure the LSS works. Madam President, I would like LSS and personal assistance is legislation that differs from what we are used to in Sweden. It's rights laws. A decision by the Supreme Administrative Court has a direct effect on people's living conditions. The nature of the law can thus change without a new political decision being made, and this affects people. The judgments of recent years have caused many people to lose their state assistance – a very direct impact. But it has also affected many others who have personal assistance or other LSS efforts through the anxiety it creates, and the feeling that the support you have today may change after the next or next they have grown. At the same time, it is not possible to underline enough the importance of LSS legislation. Despite problems with the design of LSS, it has made it possible for many people to have equal living conditions. Liberation and freedom are really invaluable, and it is difficult to put into words what it has meant for all concerned and touched upon over the years. I talked to Annette, whose daughter could not have lived in the same municipality as her if it had not been for the assistance the daughter receives. She has tried to find a form of group housing that would suit her daughter, but right where she lives there is no one to suit the needs of her children. Now they can stay in their municipality, thanks to the support the daughter receives from the assistance. It's freedom. It's security. I talked to Markus, who told me how the various LSS efforts his children receive have created freedom for the child and support for the parents. He explained how at first he was inclined to turn down support that existed and was offered because, as a parent, he felt that he wanted to take care of his child himself. But in time he has understood how important support is for life to work for everyone and for them all to grow. Madam President, I would like I had a conversation with Birgitta about what works and what doesn't work today. We talked about what's most important for the future. Birgitta, who is now retired and who was present both before and after the LSS in 1994, said emphatically: It is liberation. LSS is a promise, a promise that even those who are born with a disability should have the right to independence, to security, to liberation. It is a promise that I value highly. But I'm not happy with the way the law works today. I am not satisfied that the judgments that fall so greatly change the case law and people's living conditions and that this happens without any political decision being made. As politicians in a country where we are used to legislation taking time and being properly investigated, it is incredibly frustrating to see such an important welfare system change so strongly and quickly without a previous legislative change. Madam President, I would like Of all the judgments that have come, there is at least one that caused many to breathe a sigh of relief: the one who said that probe feeding can give the right to assistance. But this weekend there were reports that families who got new hope after this judgment now had hope broken again, had been rejected again. I think we've all seen, heard, read and read many stories. With this in mind, we as politicians and working on these issues must be able to get to grips with the law. Last week I met Fredrik, who has a child with a great need for assistance. The first thing he said was that it is important that we review the law so that we get away from the situation we have today. He, like many others, described how today's law has created a system that is a constant struggle and a constant toil for people who, above all, need support. That is why we need to change the law so that it is both clearer and safer for those who need LSS and assistance. The ambiguity that there is in store for this. I know that the ambiguity had a point when the law came about – that the ambition was that it should not be so controlled. But it has created problems. Judgments change case law. Another problem is that the amount of aid granted can vary greatly depending on where you live in the country. One municipality makes an assessment, and another municipality makes another. The Social Insurance Agency makes different assessments in the country. I had been a minister for four days when I met Nora Eklöv at home in my hometown of Kalmar. She has personal assistance today, but when she wanted to move because she got a new job, she was not granted assistance in the new municipality. There was no escape for Nora. Her story is not unique. This is what it looks like. Madam President, I would like I have chosen to start this debate with a few examples from some of the people I have met. They tell both why LSS and assistance are important and that it does not work well enough today. They convince me that we need the review that is now being carried out. They tell us why we need a law that is clearer, safer and works better – a law that gives the liberation that Birgitta spoke so warmly about.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-24	Madam President, I would like Ludwig is three years old, blind, extremely sound sensitive and wheelchair-borne. He needs medicine nine times a day, and there must be records of everything he eats, drinks, and urinates. He's got a little sister in a few months. Like all babies, she screams sometimes and has the needs of babies, which means that Mother Amanda is not enough. Despite their son's needs, they have been denied assistance. But after television has paid attention to Ludwig, the family has been helped with a relief three hours a day. But the municipality cannot afford to help more says the Chairman of the Social Welfare Board in Filipstad, left-wing partyist Anders Nilsson. If the municipality helps anyone who has lost their assistance, they may have to close a retirement home instead," says Anders Nilsson, Left Party. Ludwig's parents cannot understand why the municipality does not have to comply with the law, and they wonder if they might have moved if they had known this. Madam President, I would like This is, of course, totally unacceptable. The legal uncertainty is unacceptable, and the security around a child should not fall with where you live. Madam President, I would like No one who does not have a child who needs assistance or who needs it himself can probably fully understand what it is like. No one who has not himself watched night after night, day after day, struggled with probe feeding, listened to the breath sounds and constantly read the signals can probably really understand how the anxiety is constantly there and how it wears. I, too, cannot fully understand that. But every time I meet people who describe their tough lives, I have the wisdom to appreciate my own life with healthy children. I get touched, I get angry and I get sad. But these stories are not just anxiety, sorrow, and pain. It is also important to highlight and stress that these stories are also characterized by so much hope, love and joy. Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the government has caused so much suffering and insecurity to those who are the weakest in society. It has been a weak and unprepared approach since day one. On a number of points, the government is now making quick slaps to try to make people think that it would pay to vote for this government to sit for another four years. Even in the area of today's debate – LSS and personal assistance – there is a change, or at least an apparent change. The question you ask yourself is: When will the next change come, and how will you dare to trust a government that quickly changes its position when opinion figures are falling? How can those people who most need the protection of society trust this? We Moderates want to ensure the long-term sustainability of the assistance reform. This requires, among other things, a holistic approach in which one sees the whole of man and not just one system. The legislation to be developed in the future must be legally secure, transparent and long-term. We Moderates believe that laws and regulations regarding LSS legislation and personal assistance should be designed so that people who need the support of society most should receive it, such as disabled people with the right to personal assistance. That is why, Madam President, the Moderates' line is clear. Firstly, the purpose of LSS and personal assistance is to enable people to live independent lives. That's what we're protecting. Assistance reform is a deeply sympathetic and central reform of freedom. We are proud to have implemented it together in the bourgeois government in 1994. The change in case law in recent years has caused concern among people with disabilities and their relatives, and we take note of this concern and understand it. Secondly, the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court in recent years have raised concerns among people with disabilities and their relatives. The government's decision to freeze the two-year trials was therefore good and necessary. However, we believe that it is important for this to be a temporary transitional solution and for a long-term sustainable solution to be developed. The Government's work in the Ministry of Social Affairs to develop a long-term solution that strengthens personal assistance and the legitimacy of the LSS reform must now be intensified. Thirdly, the Supreme Administrative Court recently issued a new fundamental judgment. This judgment will affect the conditions for personal assistance. The Supreme Administrative Court establishes that probe feeding should be considered as a basic need and should thus give the right to personal assistance. The judgment is important in principle. Recently, several children who are being probed have lost personal assistance following a decision from Försäkringskassan. The verdict lays down three basic things. Firstly, it establishes how to view self-care in relation to assistance from LSS. Self-care is basically a legal service. Secondly, this judgment makes it clear that the fact that something is self-care does not disqualify it from being the basis for assistance compensation. Thirdly, probe feeding should be treated as a meal, which should thus be regarded as a basic need in the Personal Assistance Act.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-34	Madam President, I would like I must begin by thanking the Christian Democrats for the initiative to debate the current legal situation for personal assistance. How is the legal situation? There's a lot of legal uncertainty. If I had been eligible for assistance, I would have been afraid and worried. Every time my case might have to be tried again for some reason, I would be afraid that it might mean that I might actually be without the help that I have had and that I need, even though my need for help may be exactly the same or even greater. It's not okay that we scare and worry people in this way, and it's not okay that we snatch away the little safe foundation on which they stand. It is not possible to ignore the human being behind any small restriction, any small change or any small interpretation of the legislation that we do, because there is always at least one individual who is affected and affected. Madam President, I would like I'll get back to the legal situation, but first I thought I'd give my view of the situation in general. Keeping strictly to the subject is not the strong point of our committee, and I was going to take the opportunity to float out a little even today. I have said it before, and I say it again: it is my firm opinion that it is the government's signal policy that has led to the chaos, confusion and inhumane situation that actually prevails today. I am not saying that it is necessarily conscious, but it is the consequences of action with a series of statements and a series of decisions that have actually been taken. They have spoken and acted in a way that sends clear signals. It is about the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan, it is about statements about reducing assistance compensation and the costs of personal assistance and it is about the directives in the LSS investigation. There is no one who can hide the fact that this is sending signals and that something has happened since autumn 2015, unfortunately I do not think in the right direction. There has been a drastic deterioration and change. I know 100% that people in the bitter reality agree. Actually, they're the ones who've been hit. When the government states that it is prepared to save, when the government gives instructions to the LSS investigation on saving assistance and not making proposals that are cost-driven and when it gives directives to the Social Insurance Agency to break the trend in the number of hours, one must be good naive if one believes that it does not send signals that can have devastating consequences and that in fact creates a great deal of concern. The situation has led to new applications and interpretations of judgments that have not been interpreted in the past, or in any case have not been applied. Now, many years later – at least three – after the guiding judgments, they are being applied. How can that be? How can it be that more and more people receive fewer hours, or perhaps even completely withdrawn assistance? How is it that more and more people are denied assistance when they apply for it? We are constantly told that no change has been made and that nothing has changed. Nevertheless, we have a situation where around 1 500 have lost their assistance and where about eight out of ten applicants are rejected. In fact, something must have caused this. Every time I or anyone else here points out that it is the government's signal policy that is a major contributory cause, we are told that no such signals have ever been sent. It won't be credible. It is not credible to claim from the government that no signals have been sent. It is interesting, Madam President, that, according to the government, when an authority or investigator is asked to make savings, it should not be seen as a clear signal. But if you do the opposite and remove demands for savings, it is suddenly a clear and important signal. When the government removed the saving requirement in the LSS investigation, it wrote the following: Then it is strange to deny that previous saving requirements would have been a clear signal, as we have said several times in the debate. Politics is not just about influencing and changing, but above all about taking responsibility. The Social Insurance Agency has been forced, on direct orders, to more restrictive assessments that have led to people who have very extensive needs no longer receiving the support they are entitled to. Löfven, Strandhäll and Regnér have wanted to reduce the costs of both health insurance and personal assistance, but when the proposals have consequences and severe criticism, the Director-General is fired instead. It's not taking responsibility. I call it weak to blame instead of taking responsibility and making decisions and trying to correct them. That's taking responsibility. This is a clear signal policy which, unfortunately, has led to us being where we are today. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats spend half a billion more than the government in our budget in this particular area. In so doing, we believe that the government should take the initiative to restore the application to all those who have been dismissed from the state assistance allowance and who have been rejected in recent years.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-47	Madam President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. For us environmental partners, it is a matter of course that welfare should include everyone. This debate has been requested in response to a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court on the feeding of seed. The background is that since the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in 2012, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has interpreted probing as self-care – a nursing operation – that does not qualify for state assistance compensation. And that has been a big problem for many. When the Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg, in December 2016 in Case No 3208, chose to go in the opposite direction, there was a problem of interpretation and thus a lack of legal certainty. The Social Insurance Agency then asked the Supreme Administrative Court to clarify what was in force. This was done by appeal against the decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal. On 13 April this year, the Supreme Administrative Court's new ruling came. On this occasion, the Court of Justice has concluded that feeding is to be counted as helping with meals, which means a basic need and therefore a need that is eligible for state assistance compensation. The new interpretation from the Supreme Administrative Court obviously means that many feel relieved because they have been denied the support they need because of the previous interpretation. We in the Green Party naturally assume that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is now changing its assessment based on the new legal situation, which should reasonably be stable. In Sweden, it is the authorities who interpret and apply the laws passed by the Riksdag. Neither parliament nor government has that power. Parliament can express its dissatisfaction in various ways, and the government can try to interfere in the work of the authorities – even if it is legally questionable – by, for example, replacing a Director General and writing regulatory letters. The task of politics is, in fact, to evaluate the application of public authorities in society and then to remake the laws if they are applied in a way that the citizens do not want or that the politicians did not intend. For us environmentalists, who believe that the intentions of the Law on Support and Service adopted by the Parliament in 1993 were very good, it is of course offensive that the interpretations that the authorities have made since then have alienated the application so far from the intended one. We, as I believe all the other parties, have seen this disturbing development over time, and many of us have questioned it. There has also been a great deal of effort from the policy over the last 25 years that the law has been in force to intervene to ensure that the original intentions apply. The policy saw quite early on that there were problems with the legislation. Both the fact that people with severe functional variations did not receive the support they should reasonably have received and the fact that perfectly healthy people managed to deceive administrators and make huge contributions. Every time the scandals were raised in the media, the law was questioned both by those who wanted to improve the law for those with severe disabilities so that they could get support and by those who simply saw the law as dysfunctional and wanted to remove it. Indeed, the LSS has been very much debated. As early as 2001, only seven years after the law was implemented, the first investigation was set up to try to correct the shortcomings of the legislation. I've tried to go through the history to form an idea of how many times LSS has been investigated, but it's not easy to get a completely safe picture of it. It is probably more than five investigations that have looked at the law. A more accurate picture of the development is given if you look at the text of the law itself and the notes for when parts of the law have changed. Then you can see that during the almost 25 years that the law has been in use there have been changes in the actual text of the law for 14 of these 25 years. I think we need to have this background with us in order to understand that the LSS was probably an unusually unclear law that gave the implementing authorities too broad and unclear a framework to interpret. That is why we have had many of the problems that bordered the history of the law. The Alliance government had eight years and conducted two investigations but failed to clarify or secure the legislator's original intent. In its almost four years, the current government has not succeeded in the task either. However, the investigation set up by the current government in 2016 has a mission which, when it is presented, may make it possible at last to make the modernisation and updating of the law that we all know is necessary. The removal of the so-called "saving requirement" may make it easier both for the investigator to carry out his work and for the policy to find a broad agreement on how to ensure that people with severe disabilities can live a full life like everyone else.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-60	Madam President, I would like As water droplets that meet cheek to cheek before they float together and converse through the different unique body languages that signal between the strokes of hearts and provoke an equal flow of value of joy With this poem by Lena Eldståhl, I launched the current debate on assistance that was held here in Parliament a year and a half ago, specifically on 28 October 2016. Lena, who has written the poem, needs assistance herself, and then, a year and a half ago, she noticed clearly how it got harder and harder in the assessment of the allocation of her assistance hours. Then, a year and a half ago, there was great concern that she would have to cut back on working and on her leisure activities. It was a concern that has now been met. Lena had at that time, a year and a half ago, just been told that her assistance hours would be greatly reduced. And she still gets to fight for every hour of assistance. She can no longer be active in the same way as before. Instead, the force is used to appeal and to produce evidence and evidence of her needs. And the power is also used to worry about the economy, the concern that it no longer goes together because you can no longer work and at the same time have to pay for parts of the support out of your own pocket. Not least, the power goes to the anxiety of surviving at all without the help she needs but no longer receives. Will there be a help there when I need it for my own life? That is what this debate must be about. It must be about every individual who, through the legal situation we see today in the field of assistance, ends up outside society and about every individual who, instead of using his power and energy for a job and active leisure time, must use it to appeal and prove his or her needs. The debate must be about the concerns and fears of each individual. Where did the basic intentions of assistance legislation go? What happened to the intention that these people should be able to live like others? How did the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party end up so wrong? Madam President, I would like The Center Party defends the basic intentions of assistance legislation. The Center Party defends the individual's freedom of choice. For the Center Party, job opportunities and education are important elements for being involved and actively participating in our society. A prerequisite for freedom of choice is that you can control your support and assistance yourself – that you can, for example, freely choose the performer. Involvement is important for the development of the individual, and it is important for the development of our society. We can't afford to put individuals outside. But in order to be involved, we also need to have the conditions for this. Therefore, in the 1990s the bourgeois government implemented the LSS Act and the Personal Assistance Act. Assistance is according to law personally designed support for those who, due to large and permanent disabilities, need help with things such as personal hygiene, meals, dressing and communicating with others. These are basic needs in order to be able to be involved and active in society in the next step. The fact that the government has challenged the basic intentions of personal assistance through, for example, regulatory letters and investigation directives is quite obvious. For example, the number of people receiving state assistance compensation has clearly decreased since 2015, despite the fact that all statistics say that more should have been granted the state assistance allowance. For several years, the rate of new applications remained stable at around 40 per cent. However, in 2016, this frequency was halved to around 20 per cent, and the statistics from the beginning of 2017 show a continued increase in the rejections of new applications. It is therefore an increase in the number of people, individuals and people who do not receive personal assistance or who have lost their assistance or, as Lena, have had it severely reduced. That this affects the possibility of living like others is evident. Life conditions and the possibility of an active life, whether it is about work or leisure time, are naturally affected. But, Madam President, as I said, these are not just figures in a table. It's not just statistics. It's about individuals– about people who may have had their conditions seriously deteriorated or changed through an accident or illness. These are people who do not receive the support and assistance they need, as a direct result of the government's policy during this term of office. It is a combination of passivity – that is, the government has chosen not to make proposals in time in a situation where courts and authorities take decisions that we consider to be contrary to the intentions of the LSS – and a wide range of concrete decisions that strike directly at the assistance system. Where is faith in man and the equal value of all? Madam President, I would like As far as the Center Party is concerned, we are clear that the intentions of the law must be restored. The purpose of personal assistance and the LSS Act is to provide continuous and coherent support, so that people with disabilities have the opportunity to have a working everyday life in their own home as well as to participate in community life, engage in leisure activities and have a job or study. For us in the Center Party, it is absolutely essential that the legislation and the application of the law live up to this. Therefore, our most important task now is to restore the basic intentions of personal assistance.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-76	Madam President, I would like For almost four years, we have been fighting against the government that I would never have believed in my wildest imagination that we would have to run. I would never have known that a red-green government would be responsible for the fact that today we are dealing with an LSS reform that is almost completely unworkable. Not for a second would I have believed that the hardest battle we would have had would be about my right and your right to live our lives as free individuals with the right to self-determination and participation. If it had not been for the stubborn struggle of the disability movement, one of the greatest freedom reforms of our time would have been shot to death today. Despite the fact that this parliamentary term has been lined with setbacks, they have not for a second given up the fight for the LSS. Despite the collapse of their lives, these people have used their courage and strength not to let anyone escape the cost of government policy. They have been forced to share with us their most private affairs in order for us to really see what is happening. With themselves as a living example, they have been forced to show what each of us may lose, all for us to retain our rights. I am therefore very proud that, together with the disability movement, we have made a difference. When the government commissioned Försäkringskassan to reduce the number of hours, together we got the government to back off. When the government thought the stencil was high enough, we made them reconsider. When the last sentence on additional time fell, we pressed on to get them to change the law, and together we have ensured that the government removed the saving requirement in the LSS investigation. Every time this or the previous government has tried to get the issue of assistance to be about cheating and criminality, we have made visible the terrible strategy of undermining the legitimacy of a reform to allow us to break the underlying foundations of our welfare. With a tough fight, we have pushed the government in the right direction, got them to do it again and do it right and got the government to show that they can if they really want to. Unfortunately, however, Madam President, the government does not want to take the only decision necessary to ensure the LSS. Our ten-year battle for a change of law has not produced results. Changing the law is a decision that would actually cost. The truth is that not one of the changes made by the government has had any impact on the thousands of people affected by their policies. Not one of the points backed by the government helps over 1 000 people who have had their lives completely torn apart during this term of office. The government had a goal: to reduce the cost of assistance. This goal was more important to them than our right to our life. There is no doubt that it is intended to take account of the fact that only 11% of assistance granted today is the increasingly harsh application of the law. We have been pointing this out for ten years, and we have been calling for the law to be amended for that very reason. On the other hand, two governments in a row have crossed their arms and watched one of the greatest freedom reforms of our time lose its basic intent. With their eyes open, they have watched people lose their fundamental rights. Not once have we said that the government will rule our courts. What we demand is that the government stand up for the decision we have made in the Swedish parliament: that we should have a law that gives us all the right to live our lives with self-determination and with the right to participate in society. We shall have a law in which people's rights and needs will govern. It is a democratic decision that is now not being respected, because the government refuses to change the law after all the judgments that have been handed down. Madam President, I would like For us in the Left Party, our welfare contract is sacred. For us, it goes without saying that if Emmas's children are born with a disability, we will jointly guarantee that they can grow up to be a free citizen. If Mikael's love gets sick, we will make sure that he is able to work, study, and care for his family. And in the event of an accident, you're gonna make sure I can still go dancing. The LSS reform is a promise that we in the Swedish Parliament have given each other that it is not our functionality that should be crucial if we are to be full and free citizens. It is a promise that, no matter what life offers, we will feel confident that our needs will be met and that we will have the right to live our lives. That is a promise that we will fight for. The government can be sure that the question of a change of law will be with us throughout the electoral movement, but we will not end there. You can rest assured that this is an issue that will follow right after the elections and in which we will press the next government with all the means available to secure the LSS.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Christian Democrats, who have called for this extremely important debate! Madam President, I would like The person in need of assistance shall be entitled to assistance. This is a verbatim quote by Minister Lena Hallengren. This is a clear statement, which Minister Hallengren inherited from former Minister Åsa Regnér and which she also used very diligently. We have heard it constantly repeated since autumn 2015. But, Madam President, the truth is that there is a silent disaster going on in Sweden. People with major disabilities are left out on a daily basis because of the completely inhuman passivity and political signals of the Social Democratic-led government to their authorities. Madam President, I would like A society's dignity is measured by how we take care of the most vulnerable. That is the ultimate point of the welfare society, what it is really about. What is going on is not only a failure for the systems in the welfare country of Sweden. It is a betrayal of those who need welfare most for their freedom, for their participation and ultimately for access to their own lives. And let us not forget that it is the authority of the state and the responsibility of the government. My first question to the responsible minister is: What do you really say, more than what you said in the opening statement, to little Selma and her hard-tested family who, despite the new judgment that has now been interpreted, despite the lenient statements and promises of the Government, have lost their vital assistance according to the Social Insurance Fund's decision? What does the Minister say to little Wendela in Habo, to Eleonora in Malmö and to all the other children who are denied their right to help with breathing, feeding or supervision in their epileptic attacks? Madam President, I would like On 1 January 2015, 16 124 people had personal assistance. Three years later, in April 2018, there were 14,638 people – a difference of 1,486 people. There is something quite unique about the development of this law. Never before has the number decreased so much and so drastically fast. In addition, if the proportion of the population had been the same as 2014/ 15, the number of people who are in action today would be around 17 200, because we also have a population increase. Madam President, I would like We Liberals stand up in words and deeds for the greatest of freedom reforms in our time. Today, the Red-Green Government is dismantling freedom at a rapid pace for cost reasons and with ideological pretences. We are, of course, opposed to the saving of those who need the support of society most. We therefore spend 1.5 billion more than the government per year on these people for their human rights, their freedom and the possibility of participation in order to get back to the level that was before the start of the disaster. We put a total of EUR 6 billion in our draft budget. Madam President, I would like The time for the beautiful speeches of parties has passed. Strong political proposals must be made, and money must be made available. It is about credibility, and it is actually about people's lives. The government has not changed the legislation, according to the Prime Minister and responsible Minister. It is true, but one cannot evade responsibility for the fact that the changes have taken place on the basis of a number of judgments interpreted by Försäkringskassan, i.e. the state's own authority over which one has supervisory responsibility. This has given immediate effect right into people's everyday lives, in many cases a very dramatic effect. Question two from me will be how the government sees that it is not the judges who have changed the reality for the people but the agency Försäkringskassan's interpretation of the judges – something that last night was overexplained in SVT's news reports. The government's own authority continues to interpret the ruling of our highest judicial bodies – interpretations that the court's own representatives do not recognize. This is something that they do not want to see decided upon. Madam President, I would like It is obvious that the government has had a very difficult time dealing with these issues. I am very afraid that they are now being tried to clean them away from the election movement with one or two fog curtain decisions.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-99	Madam President, I would like In a community we bear each other's burdens. The problem is that the public now has let go. There are still relatives who can only try to carry the burden. But many of them are under the yoke of not getting the help of society that one can expect. Assistance compensation is about all those with extensive needs who do not have relatives or have relatives who cannot bear the burden, who have seen their lives change from living their lives to just surviving. Like Minister Hallengren, I have met many of those who still have their personal assistance. Many fear that they too will suffer and get rid of their efforts. I have also heard them testify to the enormous importance of the effort, what a difference it makes in life to be able to participate – the whole purpose of the entire LSS legislation. And of course this also applies to the other efforts within the LSS, where each can have a very significant impact on the individual. But it is a law of rights in which we must protect rights. Rights are not something that is written in gold and that cannot be changed. Rights are what has been eroded. If we want to restore and defend assistance, as the Christian Democrats want, we need to change the law. If we don't change the law, it can't be restored. That is why I am particularly concerned that the government is giving the impression that this is what we are about to do. Not only the first horribly negative directives for the investigation were to make savings on assistance compensation, but the additional directive that the government issued in writing on 3 May contains this key sentence: the proposals taken together should not lead to an increase in the need for funds allocated compared to today's level. Then let's go back to 2015. If you believe that this is a development that has been going on for decades and that there has been no difference, you can read what the National Board of Health and Welfare wrote just a few weeks ago: As of 2015, the number of withdrawals of decisions on state assistance has increased significantly. So something has happened since 2015. If you go back and compare budget forecasts and figures, you can see that there have been savings. Since the government began to talk in October 2015 about being prepared to make savings on assistance, savings have begun. The result was 200 million lower than expected only between October 2015 and January 2016. In 2016, savings amounted to 4.4 billion and in 2017 3.8 billion. In 2018, it is estimated to be 3.5 billion, 2019 3.6 billion and 2020 3.9 billion – thus saving nearly 4 billion per year. The new lower level says the government's new directive that you should not depart. Then the question is: Is the current level reasonable, which means that the person who cannot breathe cannot be sure that it is a basic need that one can expect us to take a joint responsibility to meet so that we share the burden? Are you satisfied with today's level? The Government says: The proposals taken together should not lead to an increase in the needs of the funds allocated compared to today's level. Today's level has meant that thousands less people than expected have the right to state assistance, and although legal developments have involved state assistance compensation, this has spilled over into all other LSS operations. What is also worrying about the legal situation is that today it is different. The person who had his decision reviewed has a worse legal position than the one who did not get it. Today you cannot expect to have the same rights even though you have the same situation. Parents of children born after 2015 are allowed to take greater responsibility than others. Those who depend on municipal assistance have no help in the fact that there was a temporary stop today. I want to know from the government: What do you want to do? Are you satisfied with today's level? Why else have you said in the new directive that this is the level that should apply?
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-111	Madam President, I would like After all, the form of debate is such that I have four minutes to try to answer all the speeches and questions. I'll do my best, but I'm sure I don't have time for everything. I realise that Parliament's pulpit is not the best place for dialogue and to try to understand each other four months before an election. I regret that, because I believe that this issue needs precisely joint dialogue, dialogue and understanding. There are no doubt differences of opinion, but I think that the differences are exaggerated in the speaker's seat and greater than they really are. I welcome the Moderates' announcement of wanting to participate in ensuring the long-term sustainability of assistance, because that is exactly what it is all about. Had previous governments been able to review complex, comprehensive and important legislation, we might have been able to make minor changes all the time. Now we are in a position where we will have to do quite a lot, along with the group that is here right now or others, and that is important. I am surprised by the claims made by the Swedish democrats that judgments and the exercise of authority should not be based on legislation. There is also the agreement of several parties in here. That the government should interpret the judges instead of the authorities would be unusual, and I do not think that is what is really being asked for. I understand, however, that there is a resignation. I felt it when I was Vice-Chairman of the Social Committee during the last parliamentary term and we called the responsible ministers to the committee and asked what happens when we have judgments that affect. We already did, even if it has accelerated. There were no simple answers, and I regret that we did not set up an investigation at that time. As I said in my introduction, the investigation that is now working is very important. It is crucial that the investigator arrive at a whole that truly guarantees what is the original intention of the law. Bengt Lindqvist, former Minister of Social Affairs, appointed the Disability Investigation, and Bengt Westerberg, then the People's Party, presented the LSS legislation. I would like to emphasise that it was cross-block work, and that is part of what we are also going to carry with us today. I would also like to turn to the fact that who receives or does not receive state assistance would be governed by allocated resources. Then it should be a budget issue and quite easy to solve, that's not the case. Tackling the issue of getting a better functioning law is difficult, but it is also the only way to get a law that is sustainable in the long term, creates security and provides opportunities and participation in society. That would require a different call about LSS and assistance than what we have today. We must get away from the debate on air money and about greater funding guaranteeing assistance for those who have lost it. The fundamental question is how to change the legislation. The decisions that have been taken on two-year reviews, waiting times and preparedness to be included in basic needs, information obligations from state to municipality and the individual are important changes that play a major role. I will also say something briefly about the question by the Christian Democrats, Emma Henriksson, that it should not be cost-driven from today's level. That is another way of saying that you do not have free hands, which no investigations have. What the LSS efforts will then cost, we'll see. It is not the budget but the legislation that governs what action is being taken.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-122	Madam President, I would like It is crucial to strive for long-term and sustainability in the assistance reform. The LSS investigation is continuing with the aim of, among other things, creating long-term and sustainable development and making the efforts within LSS more effective. We Moderates believe that it is important to have a holistic approach and a long-term responsibility, and it is good that the issue is thoroughly investigated. It is about ensuring the right to a life for the weakest. Let us therefore jointly ensure this long-term and sustainability for those who really need it most, for those who need and have the right to personal assistance. Madam President, I would like It is also crucial that more people get into work and that more companies start and grow strong to provide long-term and sustainable conditions for a secure and well-functioning personal assistance – and all other welfare in Sweden. More people in work and more strong companies strengthen the possibilities for LSS and personal assistance to be ensured in the long term. Madam President, I would like All cheating on subsidies and taxes is deeply problematic. That is something we are investing resources in fighting. Both within LSS and in other welfare systems, there is a need for sharper monitoring and supervision. We set aside more resources for this in our budget. All undiscovered cheating is lost tax crowns and resources that could instead have been used to develop the welfare of all with the need for assistance, care and care. Madam President, I would like It is directly offensive that people who are less accurate should wear their shoes on the legitimate needs of others for support and help. That can't be allowed to continue. The resources should go to those who are entitled to community support. Those with personal assistance should receive the help they need and are entitled to. Nothing else is good enough. At the same time, these support should be long-term and sustainable. Economically balanced responsibility is therefore necessary. Madam President, I would like In matters and decisions relating to LSS and personal assistance, common solutions, holistic approaches and balanced balances are required aimed at long-term, transparency and sustainability for the individual in need of personal assistance. This also applies in order to provide greater security and predictability for relatives, service providers and responsible authorities, states and municipalities. Overcoming insecurity and uncertainty for the many affected is unworthy of Sweden. There is therefore a heavy responsibility on the part of the government. I promise that the Moderates will help to jointly secure the long-term and sustainability of those who need it most, those with the need and right to personal assistance.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-129	Madam President, I would like Although this is what some here have pointed out, that in the past and over the years different adjustments and clarifications have had to be made, it has never been this uncertain and turbulent. Although several studies and additions have been made in the law over the years, some problems remain. The problem consists, among other things, of inconsistent application of the law as a result of unclear legal rules. This, of course, helps to ensure that legal certainty is not guaranteed. This is clearly demonstrated in not least a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court 2015. A woman who has had personal assistance for 15 years suddenly loses it altogether. She becomes completely unassisted after the Supreme Administrative Court made an interpretation of the law that radically changed the meaning of the law, as it was intended from the outset. I would think that there will continue to be legal uncertainty, not least for people with mental disabilities. Another judgment that has been raised here is about whether probe feeding can form the basis for personal assistance. It was fantastically good and important that it came into place, but it puts things a little on the edge. It means that the interpretation that has been made earlier in recent years has in some sense infringed the law. Now it has been said that the law should be interpreted in a certain way, and this has not been interpreted before. So I feel confident to say that the law has been violated to some extent in the past. There are people who have been severely affected by decisions that have proved to be contrary to the way the law was intended. The answer to the question about the application of the law is that in some cases it actually looks very bad. LSS is a law of rights. It must therefore be possible for the application of the law to work. The preparatory work must be clear, and the intentions of the law must be very clear. We stand here in the speaker's chair and say all the time that we want to protect the intentions of the law, as they were from the beginning. We all do. It is therefore interesting and pleasant to hear from the Government that broad agreements must be reached. I assume and hope that this can happen. I know we all want to go the same way. As I said, the LSS is a law of rights. It is therefore a little strange that we should even have to debate questions about whether we apply our laws properly. Madam President, I would like During my years in Parliament, I have made proposals to investigate the concept of basic needs. I am certainly not the only one who wants to review what applies and what is included. I have pointed out the problems with how Försäkringskassan assesses basic needs. With that, I have wanted the government to investigate how to tackle the problems and take action on that basis. It is clear to me that much lies in the question of what is covered and how we should look at fundamental needs. It will be somewhat bizarre when we discuss here whether or not to count seed feeding as a basic need or to discuss whether it is a basic need to breathe. We all agree, of course, that this should be the case. What I cannot understand, however, is the Government's ambition of how it all goes together. While everyone should be given the help they need and are entitled to, the investigation must not make proposals that increase the cost.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-138	Madam President, I would like For the Green Party, it was quite obvious that the so-called saving requirement in the LSS investigation had no connection whatsoever with a question or limitation of the rights originally considered by the law for persons with functional variations. The aim was the opposite. The task of the investigation was and remains to ensure that the rights of the LSS Act are not watered down by the practice that has been developed. The so-called "saving requirement" was partly about improving the law so that people who are not covered by the people's circles cannot benefit from grants. Firstly, it is about the overall financial responsibility that we must always have in politics when we deal with taxpayers' money. In order for a right to be secured in the long term, it must be met within a financial framework that citizens accept. A wasteful application never benefits those users who are entitled to support and who should have it. The aim of the Green Party has never been to impair those who need assistance in order to live life as much as possible. On the contrary, our concern about the criticism of the law has motivated us to try to ensure that the original purpose of the law can continue to apply through the investigation we have been involved in. When we discuss this issue, we must be very humble in relation to the history of which LSS legislation and its application give us knowledge. A law on rights that generates large and rather uncertain cost items in the state budget probably requires the broad political commitment that I think everyone agreed on in 1993. I wasn't there at the time. It may have been difficult to deal with the problems caused by enforcement and guiding rulings, as a signal that the policy has been uncertain as to whether the broad consensus really exists today or has existed during the trip. No one has dared to open Pandora's box, as I have heard anyone express it. Hopefully, all the debates we have had this year on assistance have dispelled this uncertainty. It certainly makes it easier to find broad support that a renewed and better LSS legislation would serve. I don't think anyone wants to see a future where politicians argue about what the intention of a new law was. In the worst case scenario, this could lead us to return to the situation we are now in. Authorities and courts have a simpler job with the interpretation of the laws we make if we are so fundamentally in agreement on values that it does not require vague formulations to achieve a great deal of agreement behind the law. For those who have a long-term or lifelong need for assistance in order to be able to live as much as possible a life as everyone else, it is important that the conditions are predictable and long-term. Broad political support for a new law should therefore be very desirable. I myself will not be in Parliament during the next parliamentary term, but I assume that a new red-green government will present proposals for a clarified legislation based on the Report on the Review of Operations under the LSS and the Assistance Compensation. The Green Party's hope is that this work will lead to the uncertainties that now exist becoming a memory. We want those in need of assistance to be able to feel confident that such an improvement will enable them to live like everyone else. Perhaps, Madam President, the main issue will also have to be resolved.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-146	Madam President, I would like The government has made proposals for changes. These are changes that may have partially mitigated some of the effects. However, the will of the Center Party is to do more and more quickly than the government has managed to achieve. One could say that these changes and additions the government has made, which are far from sufficient to live up to the basic intentions of LSS and assistance, are made under the gallows. But it is hardly the government that has the toughest noose around its neck. Rather, it is those who have suffered from reduced or withdrawn assistance. It is about those who can no longer work, have active leisure time and live as normal a life as possible when the application of the law and personal assistance do not provide the support they need. That's where the noose has been tightened. The changes that have taken place in the LSS area and assistance over the past few years are a direct consequence of the government's policy, which has been clearly aimed at reducing the costs of personal assistance and LSS. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said already in autumn 2015 that we must reduce the costs of assistance compensation. In the same autumn, the Government ordered the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to stop the development of the number of assistance hours. In connection with the establishment of the LSS investigation, Minister Åsa Regnér said that it is not possible to see when the cost of personal assistance increases. The directive for the investigation was also clear: make proposals to reduce the cost of assistance! It is true that the government has now come up with an additional directive for the LSS investigation, where the investigator no longer has to propose savings in the assistance compensation. But the savings have already begun, just as Emma Henriksson mentioned in her speech. The Minister tried to explain the text of the Supplementary Directive which says: After a sharp tightening up of the assessment of basic needs in the area of personal assistance, many people have already had their help withdrawn, Madam President. Families have been divided because parents no longer receive help with caring for their children at home. After extensive criticism, the government has temporarily suspended the two-year trials. But, for example, no proposal has been put forward to prevent the consequences of the judgment stating that breathing is not a fundamental need, even though the Center Party and other parties have demanded this. The judgment has devastating consequences for, for example, children in need of ventilators at home. I note that the government would like to blame the problems that have arisen on the courts and on the Social Insurance Agency, rather than taking responsibility for the situation that has arisen. But the truth is that the government has pushed through a number of decisions that have had major consequences. We must get back to what is the basic idea of LSS and personal assistance: giving people with disabilities the opportunity to live like others. The left-wing government must also stop chipping at companies offering high-quality assistance. Finally, Madam President, the government urgently needs to come up with real proposals for sharp legislative changes that re-establish the intentions of the LSS and assistance.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-154	Madam President, I would like The development we are now seeing is not only deeply inhumane. It is a threat to everyone's right to live as free citizens in a democracy. When one of the richest countries in the world puts the economy ahead of our basic needs and rights, every person should have enormous anxiety. Each of us must understand that this is a real threat to all of us. In the debate, it sounds like it is only the government that is responsible for having the emergency situation we are now in, but the truth is that the attack that the reform is being subjected to got its start with the alliance government. It was the one who was in power when we began our fight for change of law, and it was with the Alliance in power that the rhetoric of cheating and crime became more and more prevalent. That's when the economy would obviously take precedence over people's needs. Today we find ourselves in a situation where there are two cement blocks in this room that prevent us from really solving the crisis. It is the Moderates and the Social Democrats who are the reason for the situation we have today, and it is these two parties that prevent us from getting a change of law. None of these parties live up to their beautiful words about protecting the LSS. Madam President, I would like I have listened very carefully to the Moderates these years. What I hear is unsuspecting. The Moderates are still talking about weak groups and fragile people, even though this is about you and me. The Moderates talk almost more often about companies than about people's needs and choose to focus on cheating and crime. The Moderates have not once said that they really want to change the law. The fact that the Moderates do not fight for our security is not exactly surprising, but what is really troubling is that they go to elections as part of an alliance. It is only possible to say that the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have done an amazing job during this parliamentary term. But what will it mean after the election? What have the voters to wait from you when the biggest party in your club so clearly showed that it does not want to change the law? It is soon elections, and the Social Democrats and the Green Party have already clearly shown that they are not prepared to secure the LSS. But you too, the voters will be responsible for the answer. Does a vote on either of you mean we're going to have a change of law? Now perhaps you're going to say that I am standing here throwing rocks in glass houses and that we have indeed been part of the government. But you know as well as I do that's not true. During this parliamentary term, we have negotiated the budget – a role we have played very well, as we have ensured that we strengthen welfare, which the previous government destroyed, and strengthen disability policy as a whole. It is not a budget cut that the government has made. It's an abdicating lawmaker who's their biggest betrayal. We in the Left Party go to elections independently with our own politics. Our response to the voters is crystal clear: we will not give up until the LSS is a law to trust for all of us.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-161	Madam President, I would like First of all, I just need to clarify what is the government's responsibility. Of course, the government should neither interpret legal judgments nor sit over independent authorities. However, it is the responsibility of each government to oversee the law's compliance with the legislator's intentions and the maintenance of legal awareness in society. It is the duty of every government to assume supervisory responsibilities, and that is what is being betrayed. Lena Hallengren has government colleagues who are almost every week in the news media, pointing out that laws and judgments are going in the wrong direction and that reviews need to be made. They are also being launched in a hot current. Just look at the Prop osition list that Parliament is currently having to deal with. The exception is the area of disability. There is not a single envelope around the LSS that the government has done anything about. We can look at the car support. We can look at the different parts of LSS and the state personal assistance. We can take a look at the travel permit trials. We can look at areas where supervisory responsibilities are betrayed. This is extremely serious, because it is aimed at a single group in society. We are now also seeing how authorities are being put against each other. There is daily a cost transfer from the state assistance to the municipalities – the municipalities that Lena Hallengren celebrated in her opening speech and which are doing well. Yes, they are doing well, because they see people's needs, Madam President. Today, however, municipal decisions are made that you receive a positive assistance decision from your municipality, provided that you appeal against the decision of the Social Insurance Agency. This is a way of both coagulating the legal system of appeals and pitting authorities against authorities with the citizen as weapons. It's completely indecent. We see lockdowns in municipalities. One example that Lena Hallengren mentioned in her opening speech is that a person has been forced to stop working and move home to her parents because the municipality where the work is located does not grant personal assistance. It will be a lock-in effect and a powerful pruning of the freedom to live one's life and do one's job. Madam President, I would like This has been described in many ways today. Nevertheless, it must be highlighted what is actually the difference in the additional directives compared with the old directives for the LSS investigation. You're supposed to follow the frame. Up to SEK 7 billion is already saved. The proposed new legislation of the investigation must not go beyond the framework. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency's forecasts point to a further 3 – 4 billion by 2020. What is the difference, Lena Hallengren, in the new directives compared to the old ones? Madam President, I would like It is quite obvious to me that the time for beautiful speeches from the parties is over. Strong political proposals and budget proposals must be made.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-168	Madam President, I would like I come back to the question I asked in my last speech: Is today's level reasonable? Is it the situation we have today that we are expected to accept? For the Christian Democrats, the answer is clear: No. The law on support for people with needs must be restored, and this must be done by amending the law. The analysis presented by Försäkringskassan in December last year showed that it was judgments that caused Försäkringskassan to change its practice. It has been assessed that efforts that require in-depth knowledge can only be made by those who have mental disabilities and not those with physical disabilities. Was it the intention of the legislator when the law was passed? I don't think that was the case. The Christian Democrats' assessment is that this should not be the case. Then the law must be specifically amended so that we give clear instructions to both authorities and courts and talk about: This is something other than what we wanted. We put forward a new order, write a new law and say: We want those who have these needs, regardless of the cause or nature of disability, to be covered. A few weeks ago, I was asked what is personal and close to integrity. An eight- or nine-year-old who is bathed at home in the bathtub is normally naked. Is it close to integrity? When I was a little girl in eight years, I'd probably feel that it's pretty personal and close. Who is with me in that situation is not something I do not want to be able to influence. It would have been the same if I had been exposed to it today. Today is not a matter of course. Like today, it is clearly not obvious that probe feeding is considered a basic need. It's about getting food. It is quite easy to see that it runs counter to the general idea of what is essential in life: eating, sleeping, and enjoying joy. That's the kind of thing that's important. We Christian Democrats would like us instead to have a debate on how to develop support for those with severe disabilities, how to get even more involved, how to exercise active parenthood if they have been given the gift of becoming a parent and how, if they can maintain a job, they can get support to continue to do so. These are fundamental parts of human life. We want to develop, but first we need to re-establish. This calls for specific orders from the legislator to investigations that say: This is precisely what we are going to come back to. It is precisely these things that we want new legislation on. This is missing from the directives. It is in the directives fine wording. But there is also the limitation in the lid that says that it is today's level. Today's level represents a nearly 4 billion annually lower level of ambition than before. When the community is being honored with you people, when we are getting more and more people in need, we must also raise ambition. That is what the Christian Democrats intend to continue to do.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-176	Madam President, I would like I would like all of us to do our utmost not to make the issue far too crudely rhetorical and black and white ideological. I do not believe that either the legislation or, by extension, the user will benefit from it. We need to think about how and in what way we take the greatest responsibility for the fact that the legislation will actually fulfil the original intentions of the legislator and the ambitions we have today. It's part of the truth. A 24-year-old legislation in a context meets both new target groups and a society that has changed and ambitions that look different. LSS is an extremely important piece of legislation. I would like those who somehow claim that it would be so easy to change the legislation to use their last two minutes of speaking time to tell us how it should be done. Should the government instead talk about how courts should judge or how the authorities should interpret the judges? That is not a reasonable order. How do we do now to ensure that the investigation that is being submitted just before Christmas is really taken very seriously? I mean it for real. We can stand here in the speaker's chair sometime a year and discuss case law. But if we really want change, we must dare to participate and take responsibility when the investigation comes. I would like to use my last half-minute of speaking time to say that there is a group that we have not talked about when we talk about assistance that I want to say something about. This is about the group that are personal assistants. It is a group that we really need to include in this. We must have ways of strengthening that group. Many of them love their work. But it is not a group that is always seen. It is not a group that feels that it has a status. It is a group that needs the opportunity for skills to ensure that more people stay in the profession.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-180	Madam President, I would like A weak and unprepared government during this term of office has caused great and outrageous insecurity, uncertainty and concern. Nevertheless, legislation is our responsibility here in Parliament. It's not about telling the courts how to judge. Throughout our country, people in need of support and relatives who only want to live as ordinary a life as possible and participate in society, something they have the right to do, have been persecuted during this government by the threat of the carpet being pulled under their feet. Some points are important to us. We Moderates are very proud to have been part of the government that introduced the assistance reform in 1994. Let me be clear on this point. We then assumed our responsibilities, and we will do so together with the rest of the Alliance. There is no need to worry about that, no debater in this House or anyone else. The aim of the assistance reform is at the heart of moderate policy. It is a reform of freedom that is about the right to live an independent life. But it should be legally secure and long-term where cheating is not acceptable, because the funds should go to the people who need it. Therefore, I hope that the message to Ludvig, his parents and his little sister and all the thousands of others who now want to know is that we will be able to work together from here to ensure that those who really need this best also in the future will be able to feel confident that they get it.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-185	Madam President, I would like The government has made changes. Many of the negative changes it has made have been highlighted in my first speech. But the government has also made changes that are actually good. The letter of regulation is often referred to as a change of wording but perhaps not a major change in meaning. But it changed. The government did so only after strong pressure. It is well mentioned that the two-year trials are frozen as a change that the government has made. It did so under strong pressure. We can tell you that waiting time should also be included. That change was made on the basis of pressure in this very forum. Savings requirements in the LSS investigation have been removed following strong pressure. However, as others here have pointed out, we should not be fooled by the government to believe that the government is now taking them away. We don't have to save, as long as it doesn't cost more. It does not have much real meaning for those who need help. It is clear that the government has made changes, but almost constantly under intense pressure. I'm gonna keep pushing. I am proud of the pressure that we from the opposition have managed to get through. Madam President, I would like This is an important forum in order to understand each other and to be able to agree. This is where we have done most and the most powerful pressure. These are important debates, and I think we should continue with them. Once again, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats so much for initiating the debate and Lena Hallengren for her participation.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-191	Madam President, I would like There will be a strange debate when the opposition representatives claim that the Green Party would share the values expressed in the decisions taken by the courts and the Social Insurance Agency when they apply the legislation. I would therefore like to emphasise once again, Madam President, that the position of the Green Party is that those entitled to assistance should receive it. We defend the intentions of the original 1993 law and have understood that some of the guiding judges have steered the application in one direction that we perceive as offensive – that is the word I have used in my script, and that is how we actually perceive it. It is, for example, completely incomprehensible that feeding could not be counted as helping to eat and thus not considered a basic need. The same applies to the fact that the waiting time required for an assistant to be present when a need arises could not be included in working time. This is completely incomprehensible. We welcome the fact that the government was able to quickly address the problems of waiting and preparedness as well as the consequences of the two-year review. At the same time, however, we recognise that a major revision of the legislation is necessary and that this requires more investigation. I wonder whether this is about the opposition's bad conscience because, despite two investigations during its eight years in power, it was unable to do anything about this. Is this bad conscience the cause of the high tone and of what I perceive as false claims? It is not the government that has caused the change in application, but the application of the authorities. It calls for new legislation. We have now set up an investigation, and I think that if we really want to create broad consensus, we could have legislation that brings about what we all want, namely to secure the original ideas with the legislation.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-197	Madam President, I would like The Center Party defends the fundamental intent of the Act on Support and Service. It is a law of rights, the purpose of which is to give people with major disabilities the opportunity to live like others. The centre party's starting point is that all people can grow, that they want to be able to support themselves and they want to be fully involved in society. It is about individuals, people and people who, like Lena, who I started my first speech by talking about, have had their lives questioned. It is people who are allowed to fight for every hour of assistance and who are no longer able or able to be active in the same way as before. Their power goes to appeal and to produce evidence and evidence. The power is used to be constantly questioned. But not least, the power goes to the anxiety of survival at all without the help you need but no longer receive. It is also about the power taken from parents who no longer receive support around their child – a child who may no longer be able to stay at home when assistance is removed. This is what the debate should have been about. It should be about every individual who, through the legal situation we are seeing today in the field of assistance, has fallen outside society. It should be about each individual who, instead of having a job and active leisure time, must use his or her strength and energy to appeal and prove his or her needs. It should be about the anxiety and fear of each individual. Madam President, I would like I will continue to repeat this: it is therefore self-evident for the Center Party to protect personal assistance and the basic intentions of the LSS, and then also the freedom of choice and the ability to choose and decide for themselves over their assistance.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-202	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a burning crisis and a situation that is acute and has a price so high that it is almost difficult to grasp. Nevertheless, I am very proud of what we have achieved during our term of office. We have got the government to back off its own policy, we have got people to understand that this is an issue that concerns us all, and we have shifted the debate by small steps from cheating and criminality to dealing with our rights. But we haven't got the government to secure the LSS. However, it is not too late yet. There is still time for the government to listen to the movement, to follow its own congress and to seriously put action behind beautiful words about the LSS. Until 9 September, the Government can give a new directive to the investigation that the law is to be reviewed and amended on the basis of all the judgments that have come since 2008. It's no harder than that. My strong recommendation is that you now come to your senses and go to action. I can promise you one thing: the question of whether the LSS will not be silenced because the government is filling holes that it itself has created. We will ensure that the LSS becomes a really hot issue until the day when we are again guaranteed our rights.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-207	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Liberals, I can only say that short, rapid decisions and changes are needed at present, because the situation is acute for so many people. But we also need a strong parliamentary agreement with a bottom-up investigation where we can agree on a long-term sustainable solution for all those who need it. Lena Hallengren called for suggestions on how to do it. From our side, the Liberals' highest decision-making body has put forward an entire programme to cover the foundations of a completely new legislation. It is a modernisation of the LSS that is urgently needed. More legislation is available, it is better designed individually, and it includes more effort and greater flexibility between efforts. These are major, important elements on which we need to agree. I can only say that we Liberals, both inside and outside a new government in the autumn, will be contributing to further cuts in assistance of the kind that we have now seen MP and S implement. It is a question of human rights, Madam President. It's about creating a society where everyone gets the chance to be their very best self. It is a society where you have to live your life in freedom and shape your own future that you want according to your very own circumstances in the context of your own life. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for the initiative for this debate and all the debaters for a good debate that has been clarifying in many ways.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-212	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of 2017, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan) stated in an analysis that it then presented that it expected that the application of the judgments that have changed the legal situation has not yet been fully implemented. Let us remember that when we discuss that there is a stop to two-year trials and when we go and wait for what is to come. For each of those seeking assistance in the form of assistance compensation and for each of those who, for some reason, have to have their case reviewed, the current legal application applies. It is now that there are people who are being prevented every day from being admitted to the support that we had intended for them. The government asked for advice: What should we do? I agree that it would be very good if it could be as strong a commitment that we should have a high ambition in this area as it was when the law once came into being. My advice is therefore: Investigate in special order for each of the judgments that have now been handed down over the last three years with a completely different legal application how to get back to how they were applied in the past! Then we had a situation that we still felt safe with. From this point of view, we shall be able to build on, because that is what we must do. This is really a varnish mouse test of what kind of society we are. For us Christian Democrats, it is absolutely clear that as citizens of society who help each other, we should bear each other's burdens so that everyone can not only survive but actually live.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-218	Madam President, I would like I have spoken of security many times here today. I do it because I am convinced that safe people also become freer people. I do it because I know that it is security that creates the possibility of liberation. Our strong society with general welfare for all and individual support for those who need to create security. Investment in welfare, not tax cuts, is needed for welfare to work. LSS and assistance are part of our community building. When it came, it was revolutionary. Today it is part of the Swedish model. Personal assistance and LSS have had an enormous impact on life opportunities for people with disabilities in Sweden. Many people can go to work today thanks to the assistance or the escort. Many people can move away from home thanks to assistance or the possibility of group housing. Many children get a richer leisure time thanks to short - term supervision. Many families get time and opportunity for recreation thanks to short-term housing. Many, many people live freer and more independent today thanks to the reform that enabled LSS and assistance in 1994, but I know that the changed case law of recent years has shaken people's lives and caused concern. To those of you who are concerned, I would like to say that I hear the concern. I feel your frustration. I understand that you, like us, are tired of this. I promise that I will do everything I can to get through what is difficult but very important in the mission that we have begun: to bring about a safer, more predictable and clearer LSS. On the way there, I will continue the dialogue I have started with the users and those concerned and with the problem of disability. I really want to be clear: anyone who needs assistance should also have the right to assistance.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-227	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Robert Hannah has asked me why the government does not intend to acknowledge the genocide of 1915 – seyfo. He has asked me how the government is working towards the Turkish state to remove the criminal clause which makes it criminal to claim that the genocide has taken place. Robert Hannah has also asked me how the government works for an international court to decide the issue, and how the government works to ensure that Swedish citizens who have their land expropriated and relatives murdered will be compensated and excused by the Turkish state. Without television, widespread abuse was committed against the Armenian community and other minorities during World War I in the decaying Ottoman Empire. A significant part of the Ottoman Christian population was killed. The accounts of what happened are terrible. Some 1 million people are estimated to have been victims of mass assaults. The majority of those murdered were Armenians, but the victims included other Christian minorities: Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans, and Greeks. Those killed accounted for more than half of the population of the region, and most of the survivors fled the country. It is important that we remember and learn from the dark chapters of our history in order to prevent the repetition of mass abuse in our present time. This is a question of respect for international law and human rights that is fundamental in Swedish foreign policy. On the other hand, there are many complex areas of international law, constitutional, criminal law and political aspects of how a government should react to, and in terms of, mass abuse in the past. The Government therefore commissioned the Stockholm Centre for International Law and Justice in 2015 to highlight relevant legal, historical and other aspects of attitudes and names in connection with historical mass assaults on a principled and general level. According to the report, government statements establishing historical facts are not entirely unproblematic and can be perceived as normative for research and contrary to the academic principle of critical thinking. In the case of mass assaults in the decaying Ottoman Empire, the most important thing is that those concerned jointly analyse and arrive at an approach to the abuse. These are the fundamental reasons for our position and also a reason why very few governments are making statements about the historical mass assaults. It works in various ways to promote dialogue through bilateral contacts, through the EU and through research promotion. This work is particularly important in Turkey and between Turkey and Armenia. Examples of dialogue efforts are support to the Hrant Dink Foundation, which has helped establish the first Armenian Institute in Turkey and works for dialogue and consensus between Turks and Armenians in the country. The government has also recently decided to contribute to an Armenian organisation, the Eurasia Partnership Foundation, for a project promoting dialogue and cooperation between Armenian and Turkish civil society organisations. With regard to the way in which the government is working towards the Turkish state for reform of the criminal code in question, the government has on several occasions expressed strong concern about restrictions on freedom of expression one in Turkey. Turkish criminal law contains clauses that can be used to condemn dissidents for slandering the state, its highest representatives and institutions, and insulting the Turkish flag. This is reflected in the recent report by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Turkey. The tightening up of legislation also means that free debate on issues relating to the historical mass assaults is very limited, which is something that makes reconciliation more difficult. Sweden uses every possible opportunity to emphasise, in contacts with Turkish representatives, the importance of freedom of expression and opinion, including free and open debate, which forms a fundamental part of the core of democracy. Sweden and the EU are closely following developments in Turkey as well as developments in the development of ownership and the process of repatriating property. It also includes the legal proceedings in Turkey and the European Court of Human Rights concerning the compensation and return of expropriated property, including cases relating to minority property rights.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-234	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to take steps to comply with the Government's promise to create flex jobs for people with disabilities. He has also asked me what measures I intend to take in the near future to make it easier for people with disabilities to get to work and how I otherwise intend to work to ensure that disabled people who want and can get to work. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me what I intend to do to lower the thresholds for the labour market in Sweden. The Government believes that opportunities for participation and work should apply to everyone, regardless of their ability to function. Last year, the Government set up an investigation to review whether there is a need for more flexible efforts to improve opportunities for people with disabilities to get to work or retain a job. One example that the investigation had to look at was whether an equivalent of the Danish flex jobs could be a possible solution. The study was also tasked with identifying the situation for this group today and providing increased knowledge about the supply of insatser corresponding to the needs that exist. If necessary, the investigation had to consider and propose measures. The report states that the introduction of flex jobs is likely to have little effect. There is no equivalent of the Swedish wage subsidies in Denmark. The investigation therefore does not see what effect the introduction of flex jobs would have, as the different forms of legisla tion fulfil the same function. There is nothing in the Swedish regulations on wage subsidies that stipulates that wage subsidies can only be given if an individual works a certain number of hours. The study therefore believes that the Swedish wage subsidies perform a similar function to the Danish flex jobs. On the other hand, communication on the purpose and objectives of wage subsidies needs to be improved according to the investigation. The investigation's reflection is currently being prepared within the Council. The Government is now implementing several initiatives to enable more people with disabilities to get to work or start an education. In order to strengthen employers' ability to employ, the government raises the ceiling of wage subsidies gradually until 2020. The Government has also contributed resources to Samhall, among other things in order to increase the number of jobs. In addition, the Government has given agencies the task of making internships available to people with disabilities, among other things. I would also like to stress the importance of influencing employers' attitudes towards hiring people with disabilities. The Government has therefore commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to carry out information efforts aimed at influencing the norms and attitudes of employers regarding persons with disabilities. The purpose of the information effort is to draw employers' attention to the skills of these people who are not being exploited today. The action will run from 2017 to 2019. Persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity continue to be a high-priority group for the government.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There was just an interesting debate about LSS here in the Swedish Parliament. It has turned out that this government has failed Sweden's downgraded function in many different areas. That's why I wrote this interpellation. Prior to the 2014 elections, one of the government parties pushed the issue of flex jobs hard. Not least disability's movement pushed the issue, quite rightly. It is not humane that so many disabled people are retired early today, Madam President. It may even be the way that young people go to school and dream of a job. But when they enter working life, they are met with sickness and activity benefits. It doesn't make sense. All people, regardless of whether they have a disability or not, should be able to have a workplace to go to. That is how society's money should be spent. They will provide an opportunity to enter the labour market. The government made a promise that 100,000 disabled people would get jobs. It was written about in the government declaration. Stefan Löfven was at the Congress of the Disability Associations on May 20, 2015. There he said and promised that the government had started work on flex jobs for people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity. We're not going to give up. Everyone should be able to work. No one should be left behind! ..................................................... Of course some people believed it. That's pretty reasonable, isn't it? In the same way, Magdalena Andersson was believed when she said that there was no need to increase the petrol tax. One and a half years later the petrol costs 16 crowns a litre. Three years after Stefan Lövven's promise, there is at best an information page on the Arbetsförmedlingen website. Madam President, I would like This isn't good enough. If you are to have confidence in politicians, they must reasonably do what they say, not least for Sweden's disabled. It is young people who want a job and a workplace to go to. Of course, it gets a little messy when the government parties say one thing but do another. It is also messy for many employers. The support systems that Ylva Johansson talks about in his answer are very many and extensive, and that is complicated. Many employers – I even think individual employers, in any case I have met – today say that there are so many support schemes that it is not even possible to keep track of them. The price for this is paid by the disabled when you do not get that Gevalia coffee; you must not come to that workplace with colleagues. Instead, the government has devoted a great deal of time and effort to increasing subsidies, and more young people have been excluded. That is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like Sweden's disabled deserve to have a workplace to go to. Sweden's disabled people should have the same right as the rest of us to participate in the labour market. I will tell you in my next speech why the breach of the promise is so serious.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-253	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue, about everyone's right to work. As Minister of Labour, I can never be satisfied until all the people who can work do so. They shall have the opportunity to receive the necessary support if it is in such a way that special support is required for one to be able to work. It is unfortunate that Lars Beckman is conducting this debate with so many false and purely false statements. First of all, we have never made any promise of 100 000 flex jobs – of course not. We do not even have 100 000 people employed with pay subsidies today. The flexibility employment system in Denmark currently covers 65 000 people. This is because there is no wage subsidy in Denmark. Instead, there is the flex-job model that replaces this. We promised, however, that we would like to introduce flex jobs. That's why we set up an investigation. The investigation concluded that flex jobs are not needed, as the same flexibility already exists in wage subsidies. There may be reason to think about what to do with them, and it is being prepared today in the Government Office. I received the results of the investigation in March. Nor is it the case that we have a huge number of support schemes among employment subsidies. We had it earlier, Lars Beckman. But I have carried out a major reform of it. I have reformed wage subsidies, and I have reformed all other employment subsidies. Now we have much less employment support. It is no longer a great flora. There are not at all more people living on subsidies. Today, we have a record few people who live on benefits, benefits or insurances gathered and who do not make a living through work. On the contrary, we have a record number of people who make a living through work, which is a good thing. And it is not the case that more and more young people are excluded. On the contrary, youth unemployment is very low. It has fallen clearly during its term of office. We can also get a 90-day guarantee. But we go back to the main question: How will more people with disabilities be able to get a job and support themselves through their own work? It is clear that more effort is needed. Although more people with disabilities have a job today than when I took office, I am far from satisfied. After all, we do not use the full range of skills available. Some of this has to do with how the support schemes are designed. That is why this government has significantly increased the ceilings in wage subsidies. That's why we've made sure Samhall can hire more people, and we've increased the additional expenses to Samhall. This is why we have introduced a program for internships in the state for people with disabilities. But more will have to be done. It is also about influencing attitudes so that more people can get to work. We have also listened to the disability movement when it comes to the concept of a disability. And we've commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to review the mission. More will therefore have to do so. I myself will meet with the Function Barriers Delegation next week to continue that dialogue.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-265	Madam President, I would like Let me read aloud from Focus magazine. Since Ylva Johansson thinks I'm blacking out, we take the free and independent media to help: When the Focus last March – 2.5 years after the government declaration – called and asked why the bill on flex jobs did not come yet, I was balled between the departments. No press secretary seemed to have heard of and flex jobs. After a couple of days, the vague message came: "The question is being prepared within the Government Office." A few weeks later, the government nevertheless set up an investigation into flex jobs, but now with the mission to investigate whether it is necessary. So it is different from what was said in the government declaration, which said it would be introduced. 中 Investigator became a former head of the Employment Service... And now that the investigation is complete, it comes to the conclusion that there is no need for any changes to the Arbetsförmedlingen's rules. ..................................................... This, then, is the reality in relation to what the Council of State has just said. It is only to be noted that during its eight years the Alliance did not succeed very well with this group either. Unfortunately, the government of the Green Party and the Social Democrats has not succeeded either. I also think it is about the attitude of employers, but it is probably also a cost issue. If we have very high wage costs in Sweden, as we have today, it will be a cost issue for employers to hire people. Earlier on on construction sites it was said that there were those who were good at certain tasks that were a little simpler and gave a little lower salary. Nevertheless, those tasks provided the opportunity to be at a workplace. They gave the opportunity to share a cup of coffee with workmates and the opportunity to have workmates. This must be better than these people receiving a passive sickness and activity allowance. I personally attended a muscle seminar a few years ago. There all afternoon was about the dream of getting a job. The young disabled with muscle disease had the dream of getting a job, a job to go to and being able to take advantage of the education they had. I think it is good that the Government recognises that it is a major failure in this area too. Attitudes are important. Of course, looking at the models of other countries is important. But my point with this interpellation is that it may actually have been someone who voted for this government in the belief that they would get a flex job. It may have been someone who believed what Stefan Löfven said in the Government Declaration in autumn 2014. It is quite reasonable to believe in the Prime Minister. It is quite reasonable to believe in election promises. That's normal, isn't it? But the answer was thus an investigation, which concluded that the electoral promise made by one of the government parties would not become a reality. The promise made by the Prime Minister in the Government Declaration would not be a reality. I find that very unfortunate. I believe, as I said, that the new government – Stefan Lövven's government will very likely be convicted in the Prime Minister's vote – whatever the colour – will have to give priority to this group. Every person has the right to go to a workplace. Every young person has the right to have a coffee cup with his workmates. For this we must work much harder.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-271	Mr President, I would like to One of the things that separates me and Lars Beckman is that I don't settle for people getting a coffee cup at their job. I'll pay them too. They should receive equal pay in the same way as everyone else in the labour market, even if they have a disability. The truth is that we in Sweden would not be able to do without all the people with disabilities who work. If people with disabilities didn't go to work one day, Sweden would stay. We are totally dependent on people with disabilities. I think that one should be a little careful to describe it as if their efforts were less valuable than those of others. The vast majority of people with disabilities work in unsubsidised work. They receive full pay and have no support for the work they do, in the same way as everyone else. Some have a disability which results in such a reduction in work capacity that it is reasonable that the employer does not pay the full cost of the job. This is where the state enters into the form of wage subsidies. Wage subsidies have recently been reformed. We raise the ceilings to ensure that people with wage subsidies can also receive collective pay, just like everyone else, while maintaining the subsidy rate for the employer. I think it would be a dangerous development to go on what I hear Lars Beckman talking about in his line here, i.e. that people with disabilities would work for lower wages than others. It's a society I don't want to see. The background to the proposal on flex jobs was the idea that more flexible and different solutions to wage subsidies are needed in order for more people with disabilities to get into work. It was easy to believe because we see that we have too few people at work. Then it is reasonable to look at this. We've done it. On the one hand, we have reformed wage subsidies and raised the ceiling, and on the other hand we have set up a study to see if we need another form of wage support. The study concluded that it was not necessary because what we want to achieve with flex jobs, especially if we are based on the Danish model, can already be achieved with the systems we have with wage subsidies. However, knowledge of how wage subsidies are constructed is very low in the labour market, and it is therefore proposed to provide more information on this. What one would like to ask Lars Beckman in this discussion is: Does Lars Beckman think that we should introduce another wage subsidy for disabled people?
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-278	Mr President, I would like to Let's first note what is written in the article in Focus: our Swedish National Audit Office has strongly criticised Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan and other authorities. Tens of thousands of young people are retired early and then forced to continue living on extremely low income levels throughout their lives. In the last five years, early retirement of young people has increased. So this is the reality of this government. I do not think I am faced with any humble attitude from the Government over the failure of every young person who receives early retirement instead of a job to go to, with a coffee cup, workmates, joy and community in a workplace. This must be a priority for the new government in the autumn. It's really important. I do not want to see this benefit policy continue, where young people who have dreams of a job and of an income like others are retired early. Then they might even be able to afford to buy an e-bike with government subsidies instead of receiving 8 000 SEK in sickness and activity compensation. Don't scratch on me ideas I don't have! I'm not saying that disabled people should have a lower salary. But I said that earlier on construction there were services where you had simpler tasks. Exactly how the systems are to be designed, what subsidy we are to have and how it is to be done, I have no answer today. Of course, the Alliance and the Alliance Government will have to deal with this in the autumn. However, we must break the trend over the last five years, where the number of young people with early retirement has increased sharply. That is not acceptable, and we need to get a better order.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-281	Mr President, I would like to Everyone who can work should work and have the chance to work. There's more to do. Although today more and more people with disabilities are working, I am far from satisfied. I will never be satisfied as long as there are young people who have the ability to work but do not get the chance to use it. I will never be satisfied as long as there are people whose skills are obscured by discrimination or other prejudices just because they have a disability. Nor will I accept a level of ambition where the ambition is to get a coffee cup. The ambition is to have a real job and a contractual salary.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-283	Mr President, I would like to Olof Lavesson has asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy how she sees the statement that there is only one normal VAT, and whether she intends to take measures to ensure that other cultural areas regain what is considered to be normal VAT in 25 per cent. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The standard rate according to the Swedish VAT Act is 25 per cent. In addition, there are two reduced rates. In the field of culture, for example, the tax rate applies to access to certain cultural notions. There are currently no plans to change the reduced rate in the field of culture.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-286	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by expressing my appreciation that it is precisely the Minister for Finance who is in this House today. It is not always easy to understand how the work in the Government Office is distributed. My colleagues in the Tax Committee have repeatedly intervened with the Minister of Finance on the issue of cinema VAT, but then the interpellation has been handed over to the Minister for Culture. This time it was the opposite, and I thank you for that. Mr President, I would like to The background to my interpellation concerns the biomems. We all remember how the Minister for Culture and Democracy proclaimed in this House about two years ago: now, at last, the film will become part of the rest of the cultural policy! The statement sounded false even before the club had fallen because in the same sweep the VAT rose in shock from 6 to 25 percent. Suddenly, the film would no longer be included in other culture or taxed in the same way as books, music or performing arts. Criticism became massive. I think it was heard all the way to the Ministry of Finance. It was warned that this would have a major impact on the bio-industry as a whole, and the cape would be specifically targeted at the small and medium-sized cinemas around Sweden. With the facts in hand, we know that's how it turned out. I also think that many people were surprised that the Social Democrats, who have at least historically spoken out in favour of both film and culture, agreed to this policy, which so clearly strikes against culture throughout the country. That the Department of Culture's political leadership often says one thing and does another we have had to get used to. There was a concern mixed with confusion when the second spokesperson of the Green Party at the film political summit in Gothenburg met the VAT criticism that everyone who claimed that there was a lower VAT rate for cultural consumption in Sweden was wrong. It was about a few isolated exceptions, and now the film was restored to normal level. For this reason, there was concern about other aspects of cultural VAT. I will not ask the Minister for Finance to sort out all the different messages that come from the Green Party. I think it's a task that's both her and me overpowering. On the other hand, I believe that both the Minister for Finance and I can understand the enormous consequences for cultural consumption if the government were to act in the same way in more areas as has been done in the film. The Minister for Finance says in his reply that there are currently no plans to change the reduced rate applicable in the field of culture. Friend of order could, of course, consider how far a day's situation extends, but I still choose to interpret her message positively. My supplementary question will then be whether the Minister of Finance is not prepared to restore the bio-VAT to 6%, now that we see how wrong it was.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that kind interpretation. We don't have such plans. We don't work with anything like that at the Ministry of Finance. The increase in VAT on cinema visits was part of a rescheduling of film policy, and I think the Minister for Culture is better at explaining the background to that. However, it is not the case that government revenue has increased and that we have spent that money on something else, but what the state receives on the increased bio-VAT goes back to the film industry. I have a question for Olof Lavesson. Remind me! I cannot remember that the Moderates have a reduced biomems in their budget motion, but the Moderates are behind this shift. It's possible I'm wrong.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-296	Mr President, I would like to Just look at the budget exercise that took effect on 1 January 2017. There was a difference between the government's policy and that of the Moderates and the Alliance. In the Government budget for 2017, it was a 25% bioVAT. In the Moderate and Alliance there was a 6% biomem. It's in black and white. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Minister for Finance is not prepared to reduce cinema VAT and to put cinema visits on an equal footing with other cultural consumption. It's both boring and embarrassing. The tremendous criticism that has been voiced is nothing that the political opposition has invented – quite the contrary. It is strong, loud and united, even from those who otherwise may think that the government has, after all, done some good things. Even the Swedish Film Institute has written to the government and asked the government to reconsider here. It is pointed out that the increase in VAT has led to a loss of income at all stages of the actors working for Swedish films. It's not that there's a few crisscrosses for cinema owners that yaw gold with a knife. It's about pure survival. We have already been able to see how cinemas in small towns can close. The economic crisis of many of our film festivals is a fact. It just doesn't make sense anymore. Anyone who says that this means nothing really does not know what it is talking about. The price is important. In the cultural sector, we know that price elasticity is high, that is, demand declines faster as prices increase. Research shows that it is about 1.5 for the consumption of cultural services. In other words, at every percentage the price rises, demand is expected to fall by 1.5%. Should the government act in the whole field of culture as it has done in the film, it would, according to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, have a gross effect of approximately SEK 5.5 billion. I believe that both I and the Minister for Finance recognise the enormous consequences it would have for cultural consumption and for the survival of culture. With a view to examining the new film policy, the Parliament heeded the warnings issued and, in connection with the decision, addressed, as one of several announcements, the urgent need to examine alternative funding for film policy on the basis of maintaining the lower VAT rate on cinema tickets. Since then, zero and nothing has happened. It refers to evaluating film policy when it is thought that there is something to evaluate. Then I can tell you that there is. Ask anyone who works with film in Sweden! I know that the Minister of Finance is happy to refer to moderate proposals for tax reductions, but this is certainly a tax reduction that even a Social Democratic Minister of Finance might think is good. Does the Minister of Finance not think that the announcements should be followed?
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-303	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is quite correct that the Moderates in their budget exercise for 2017 proposed a tax rate of 6 percent. But as I understand it, in the 2018 budget exercise or in the one that you presented in Parliament just a few weeks ago, there is not a word about bio-VAT or a reduced tax rate for cinemas. It must surely be interpreted as meaning that the Moderates are behind the tax rate that we have today. Then there is the number of cinema visits. I'm an economist, so I wouldn't think that the price of going to the cinema doesn't affect the number of cinema visits. But it also seems that the quality of the films – that they are good films – is important for the number of cinema visits. Let's look at the statistics. It seems that the number of cinema visits has not fallen immediately after the introduction of this. In 2017, the number of cinema visits was not as high as in 2016, when it was unusually high. However, it was in line with 2015 and higher than in 2013 and 2014. However, I fully share the view that it is extremely important that we have cinemas throughout the country. This is why the government has invested in extra support for smaller cinemas. It is also a support that was topped up in the spring bill that we presented to Parliament a little over a month ago.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-306	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister for Finance does not wish to address in a word the announcement made by Parliament. It is obviously not interesting what decisions the Riksdag makes or what announcements they make, but it is for the voters to take a position on this in the autumn elections. Yes, the Minister of Finance has looked at the cinema statistics. Has the Minister of Finance also travelled around the country? Has she met the cinema owners who have had to close? Has she met the cinema visitors in small towns who previously had the cinema in the village but who now get to go very far? That is the situation in Filmsverige, and that is the policy of the Minister for Finance and this government. Then there is the money that would compensate. Yes, it's amazing what money will lead to. I do not know if the Minister for Finance has spoken to the Minister for Culture, but this money would, among other things, compensate for VAT. Then they would go to technology development. They were supposed to go to digitalization. In addition, they are accompanied by co-financing requirements, which make it difficult to take part in this money. There's one thing to say. It's another thing to do that. The Minister of Finance says that film is still produced and that it is important which film is produced. Yes, it is. That is why the Film Institute points to the fact that the increase in VAT has affected the film at all stages. It's not just about the visitor coming to the hatch. This affects all ranks. There is a chain effect in this, and it is very clear. People should also be able to afford to go and watch the movies that are made. I would like to appeal to the Minister for Finance to reconsider. I would appeal to her to follow Parliament's announcements, and I would like to appeal to her to initiate the investigation into how we can restore film VAT to 6%.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-311	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was an appeal from Olof Lavesson. But perhaps he should begin by appealing in his own party, because the policy of biomems is something that the Moderates apparently support. After all, no other proposals have been put forward in Parliament, either in the budget motion that was launched a few weeks ago or in the budget motion that was launched last autumn. Then it is difficult to interpret it otherwise than that the Moderates are behind the policy that prevails today. Olof Lavesson is of course very welcome to appeal to me, but it might be more effective to start by appealing in his own party. Maybe they're inclined to listen. Of course, I am also inclined to listen to the problems that we see around the country with small cinemas. That is precisely why we have made special support for this, and that is precisely why we have increased that support. It is important that there is not only access to good movies but also the opportunity to go and watch them near where you live, no matter where in the country you live.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-313	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked the Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate Change if she intends to initiate an action plan to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies in Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me first make it clear that I share Jens Holm's view that measures against environmentally harmful subsidies need to be taken, both internationally and nationally. Therefore, Sweden is actively participating, among other things, in the Group of Friends of Fossil-Fuel-Fuel Subsidy Reform, which works to promote the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies. On a national level, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has, on behalf of the Government, mapped potentially environmentally harmful subsidies. The report is now being analysed within the Government Office. During the term of office, several of the examples that the Nature Protection Association categorizes as environmentally harmful subsidies have also changed. For example, the reduction in CO2 tax has been removed for heating fuels in industry and in agriculture, forestry and aquaculture, car benefit rules have changed and a flight tax has been introduced. To this it should be added that in the negotiations for a review of the EU ETS, Sweden brought about a change in the EU ETS which has led to a significant increase in the price of allowances. The Government's ambition is to increase the impact of environmental taxes. Incentives and economic instruments should be used to change Sweden in a more sustainable direction. At the same time, it is important to understand that aid on the revenue side of the state budget, so-called tax expenditure, is not necessarily the same as environmentally harmful subsidies. There is a balance between equal management of all sectors and efficiency of the tax system. Even a reduced tax level in Sweden may be higher than the tax level in comparable countries. We must also take into account cost levels in other countries for competitive activities. Otherwise, we risk that production and thus emissions will not decrease, but will just move to other countries and perhaps even increase. This also draws attention to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report when they write that a potentially environmentally harmful subsidy can also have positive effects on the environment. I would like to assure Jens Holm that I and the government are taking the issue of environmentally harmful subsidies and the importance of effective and powerful economic instruments in climate and environmental matters very seriously.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-319	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation. I think this is an important issue. Economists sometimes say: Don 中 t throw good money after bath – don't throw good money after bad purposes! But that's exactly what we do in Sweden when we subsidise environmentally hazardous activities with up to SEK 60 billion annually, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's latest inventory. There can be major reductions in vehicle diesel taxation, international aviation paying no VAT, the mining industry being exempt from carbon tax and we have distributed free allowances to large industries that are already making profits and which may not need these free allocations. I note that the Minister for Finance generally agrees with me on the problem picture, i.e. that we should not subsidise environmentally hazardous activities. I think that's good. I also note that Sweden at international level is perhaps one of the most driving forces to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies. I myself remember Stefan Lövven's speech at the 2015 climate summit in Paris, where he pressed very hard for all subsidies for fossil fuels and the like to be abolished. I would also like to remind the Minister for Finance that the European Commission has what is called a roadmap for a resource efficient Europe, which states that Member States should have phased out their environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020. Now we stand here and almost half of 2018 has gone, and I still do not see a clear plan for how to phase out these environmentally harmful subsidies. I therefore wonder what the Minister for Finance thinks about the inventory made by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency of environmentally harmful subsidies in Sweden. Could the Minister of Finance be a little more specific about how she sees us taxing or financial subsidies subsidising what leads to increased emissions? For my part, I can see two concrete examples of how the government has really acted. One is the introduction of a flight tax, which means that aviation has to take a little more financial responsibility for its emissions. The second is that the government is now investigating the so-called travel allowance, the deduction that you can make if you travel to work. As we know, these deductions are most likely made here in the Stockholm area, where there is already a functioning public transport system. For example, what does the Minister of Finance think about the rest of the aviation industry being very subsidised in the sense that international aviation does not pay VAT, that domestic aviation pays the lowest VAT, that the mining industry is completely exempt from carbon tax, that we still distribute free allowances and that we have large subsidies for professional fishing, for example, in the sense that no tax is paid on the fuel used? Would it not be a good idea not only to have a survey but also a plan for how to phase out these subsidies, Magdalena Andersson?
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-326	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm raises an important issue. Of course, we should look at all the tax expenditure we have and, of course, look at whether it is balanced or not. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that, although we have reduced taxes in a number of areas, we often have higher taxes than in many other countries. Even with the tax expenditure that is an environmentally harmful subsidy, as Jens Holm points out, the reduced tax rate is still often higher than that prevailing in other countries. An obvious strategy would be to reduce all tax rates to them at the level of the subsidy. I know that neither I nor Jens Holm want to go on this line, but it shows that this issue is quite complex and that the competition aspects that exist must therefore be taken into account. Take, for example, agricultural diesel, which is reduced in Sweden but still higher than in other countries where Sweden competes with food. We certainly do not want to remove this subsidy, because it would lead to Swedish agriculture being closed down, our arable land growing again into forest land and that we would instead import food from other countries where there is a lower tax on agricultural diesel. There is something that I am sure Jens Holm does not want to happen either. Therefore, it is important to keep your tongue right when working on these subsidies, and that is why the government has now taken action. We will continue to analyse this, but to remove everything – no, it would have consequences for competitiveness that could have a negative impact on emissions. If we were to close down operations in Sweden, production would move to countries with more emissions, and that would not be desirable.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-330	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear and say that I also do not believe that we can overnight abolish all so-called environmentally harmful subsidies in Sweden. I don't even know if we can abolish them over the course of years. Some of these subsidies are there for a reason. These may be regional policy reasons, such as the need to have an airport in a particular location and the need for help in order to have that airport. It can be far up in the inner part of Norrland. Then there are lots of subsidised airports where there is absolutely no reason for that. I also think that the Minister for Finance has a point in saying that we must always weigh subsidies against the benefits they can bring. When it comes to industry, international competition is one of the factors that must be taken into account. However, what I miss, Magdalena Andersson, is more of a holistic approach to this issue. This is not the first time the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has done this inventory of environmentally harmful subsidies; the first inventory was made in 2012, and then I stood and had similar debates with the then Minister of Finance Anders Borg. It is a bit boring, Magdalena Andersson, because he said something about the same thing that you are now saying to me: that it is important to map the subsidies and that it is important to have environmental taxes. That's what he actually said, but then nothing happened. At least now we have a flight tax, and the government is reviewing the so-called travel allowance. These are two examples of dealing with environmentally harmful subsidies, but there is still an enormous amount to be done. I listed a number of areas that are still heavily subsidised by the state, which unfortunately leads to emissions being very high– I talked about the mining industry, about aviation, about subsidies for fishing, about free allocation of allowances and so on. Once again, Magdalena Andersson : Would it not be good to take the survey that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has done, and most recently the survey that the Swedish Environmental Protection Association has done, and weigh the purpose, that is, what is positive about subsidies, against the problem, that is, the emissions these subsidies create – and then as far as possible try to phase out the environmentally harmful subsidies? Otherwise, I do not really understand the point that Stefan Löfven is going to the climate summit in Paris. We also have other government representatives who, in various international contexts, point the finger at other countries and say that they should phase out their environmentally harmful subsidies, while we do not even have a plan for how to deal with ours. Where's the plan, Magdalena Andersson? Where's the phase-out plan? We need a phasing-out plan that says: we can phase this out, and these are the dates when the phasing-outs are to be achieved. These subsidies are so important for other purposes that they become a little more difficult to phase out. I think that would be the honest way of dealing with subsidies, but the government is not doing that today. I find that unfortunate.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-337	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little disappointed when Jens Holm means that there's no difference between me and Anders Borg. Furthermore, we have been working with the Left Party on budgets over the last four years. I am very proud of what we have achieved together in the field of environment and climate in these years. We are now presenting the largest climate budget that has ever been presented – it has doubled since we took office – and we are spending a great deal more resources than in the past to rebuild and redeploy Sweden in the face of the climate change that is coming and to counteract those changes. We are increasing our efforts on biodiversity by significantly increasing the amount of forest we buy in, and we are implementing climate change, which means climate investments that not only make us climate-smart, but also create jobs and growth across the country. We have also increased the impact of some of the economic instruments we have in this area, and we are making a wide range of incredibly important efforts to increase climate change and save our nature in Sweden. This also means that Sweden is one of the leading countries in the world in terms of climate change. Here I think that we have every reason to straighten our backs – not only us in the government, but also the Left Party, which has been involved in voting in favour of this policy in the Swedish parliament. Do we have a plan to phase out all environmentally harmful subsidies? The answer is no. We will, of course, look through all environmentally harmful subsidies, and we do. In the budgetary work we have had discussions on this over all the years that I have been Minister of Finance, and we see where it is possible and appropriate to phase out. However, there are a number of areas where my assessment is that it is not appropriate to carry out a total phasing out of subsidies, because it would have very serious consequences for the possibility of living and operating throughout the country. This would affect, for example, the possibility of living in Swedish sparsely populated areas a lot. Another effect could be that it strikes extremely hard on Swedish agriculture, and that is not a consequence I am prepared to take in order to phase out these subsidies – especially not as the taxation in Sweden, even with the subsidies, is higher than in other countries. So there is no total decommissioning plan. On the other hand, I am absolutely prepared to continuously discuss and analyse which decommissionings can be made and where subsidies can be reduced in order to increase environmental governance. We will do this continuously in the budget work in the future – preferably together with the Left Party.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-343	Mr President, I would like to Are you also proud that in this budget we have the largest ever funding for the environment, Magdalena Andersson? It is now twice as much for environmental and climate purposes as for the bourgeois period. The environmental and climate budget now covers approximately SEK 10 billion. That's great, Magdalena Andersson, but the problem is that on the other side we actually subsidise what increases emissions by six times more – up to SEK 60 billion. Then we have a problem. It is also in the budget, I would like to remember – and also in the new climate law – that all policy areas must remain within the new climate policy framework. I think that a phasing-out plan for environmentally harmful subsidies is even more desirable. I would also like to remind Magdalena Andersson that the current spring budget states that environmentally harmful subsidies need to be phased out both in Sweden and globally. We are obviously in full agreement on this, Magdalena Andersson, but if you say so, it is binding. I do not think that we can simply say that we are working on this issue, but I think it should be a transparent and transparent process and that we should have a phasing-out plan for environmentally harmful subsidies. Otherwise, it doesn't feel completely credible. Could the Minister of Finance, for example, provide two concrete examples of environmentally harmful subsidies that will be the next step in the phasing-out process? We have the airline tax, and we have the travel allowance that I hope will be redistributed very soon – but what will be the next step in phasing out the environmentally harmful subsidies? We both want to do that, obviously.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-347	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the travel allowance is to be reviewed is something we agree on very broad in politics; most parties in the Riksdag support such a review. Of course, it would be very good if we could find a system that is less easy to cheat with than what we have today and a system that might better steer towards public transport rather than driving compared to what we have today. At the same time, it is of course important when looking at this to ensure that it must be possible to live and live throughout the country. The travel allowance is important. Although they are mostly used in big cities, which most people do not believe, they have the greatest importance for people in sparsely populated areas. We must ensure that we find a future system of travel deductions that takes into account the possibility of living and working in sparsely populated areas as well. It is therefore an obvious area in which we will have to work in the future. I am, of course, open to discussing other areas as well when it comes to gradually phasing out the subsidies we have in relation to tax expenditure. We have cited agricultural diesel as an example, and although we have what we call an environmentally harmful subsidy on agricultural diesel, we have the third highest tax rate on agricultural diesel throughout the EU. It is not clear that phasing out this reduction would benefit emissions in the EU as a whole, as less environmentally friendly Swedish production would risk being replaced by more environmentally harmful agricultural production in other parts of the EU. That is why we need to keep our tongue right in our mouths when we are working on these issues, and that is why we need to do continuous strategic work. That's exactly what the government is doing.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-351	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Westlund has asked me if I intend to take the initiative to review the school situation for pupils with neuropsychiatric disabilities and, if so, how. The education must take into account the different needs and conditions of children and pupils. Children and pupils should be supported and encouraged to develop as far as possible. The school's main mission is to give all students the opportunity to achieve the national knowledge requirements and objectives of the education. Today, however, there are students who do not receive an education that is adapted to their circumstances. The quality reviews and regular monitoring carried out by the School Inspectorate show that there are shortcomings in the work of schools with additional adaptations and special support. The Swedish School Inspectorate's 2017 Annual Report notes that almost one in three examined priority basic and secondary schools have shortcomings in the work with special support. Therefore, in June 2017, I commissioned a special investigator to map and analyse the school's support and student health work and make proposals in order to create better conditions for pupils, both girls and boys, to reach the minimum knowledge requirements to be reached. In order to highlight, among other things, the student group that Åsa Westlund addresses, the special investigator will identify and analyse shortcomings in the support work, suggest how the work can be improved and, if necessary, propose measures and necessary constitutional changes. The government has also taken several other measures to support pupils with neuropsychiatric disabilities. The National Board of Education is responsible for the implementation of further training in special education. The mission aims to strengthen special pedagogic competence in general in school and provide teachers with increased knowledge of useful, effective and proven special pedagogy approaches, methods and ways of working to meet students with neuropsychiatric disabilities. Special teachers and special educators are absolutely central to the special pedagogic work and an important support for other teachers. In order to ensure that all students in special education programs acquire knowledge and competence in neuropsychiatric disabilities, the Government has decided on new degree goals for these programmes. This will ensure that children and pupils with neuropsychiatric disabilities can meet better in the Swedish school. The government believes that the next step is that all teacher educations should include knowledge of neuropsychiatric disabilities. However, we need to wait for the national evaluations that are now being carried out by the teacher training courses and then take a concerted approach to the qualification descriptions of the training courses. Through the Special Education School Agency, SPSM, there is also access to in-depth expertise in the field of special education. With its extensive regional presence, the Authority has the opportunity to support all schools in the country in terms of special pedagogy support. The Government has also commissioned SPSM, in collaboration with the Swedish National Agency for Education and the National Board of Health and Welfare, to map the support available to parents of children with neuropsychiatric disabilities and how this is used in school. In addition, the Government has initiated amendments to the Rules of the School Act on grants to individual heads of preschools and schools in the form of additional payments for special support to children and pupils. The amendments clarify that the additional amount should be individually determined according to the needs of the child and the pupil. The additional amount applies to exceptional support and should be available, inter alia, for measures targeted at children and pupils with major learning difficulties. These are some of the initiatives taken by the government to strengthen education for pupils with neuropsychiatric disabilities.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-361	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. It is a large group of students in the Swedish school who have a neuropsychiatric disability, NPF. Yet the knowledge of how these children are doing is low. I asked Iksdag's investigation service to produce information on how it looks. In its report with reference number 2017:1000 RUT says that there is, for example, no follow-up or evaluation of the changes to the school law that came into force in 2010 and which means that students with autism spectrum conditions will go to the regular primary school. It upsets me. Not because I believe that the reform was fundamentally wrong – children who have the ability to cope with primary school should of course go there – but because the reform was carried out without first making sure that there was the ability to take care of these pupils in primary school. In addition, we know from surveys that are primarily about other things that it is very difficult for students in this group to get the support they need. For example, one study reveals that many of the students who become so - called home sitters have NPF. The Swedish National Agency for Education has found that there are major differences in how schools work to adapt the learning environment and so on. Generally, the Swedish National Agency for Education's studies show that the closer you are to the children, the more often you think that the school does a bad job for these students. We also know through the Coordinator for young people who are neither working nor studying that their target group often has NPF. In the absence of systematic review by the state, the National Union of Attention has tried to follow up the school situation for children with NPF. It was implemented in 2015. It found that only 16% of respondents believe that teachers' skills are sufficient to adapt children's education to their needs. The consequences of this are usually that children do not want to go to school. It's about half that says that as a consequence. Other consequences include shortcomings in reading and writing skills, lower grades and bullying. The efforts described by the Minister for Education are very good. But what little we know about how the school works for this group suggests that it will take a lot more for these students to get a good schooling. Moreover, the lack of knowledge makes it difficult to formulate the right proposals for action.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for the interpellation! I agree with Åsa Westlund's description of the situation but also how important it is that we strengthen the education for students with NPF. I would like to go so far as to say that when we successfully build the education for students who have a neuropsychiatric disability, with or without diagnosis, there are conditions for success with all students' knowledge learning. We clearly see the schools used as model schools and as learning examples for others that when you adapt the teaching of students with NPF in such a way you also manage to reach other students, both those who belong to student groups like us traditionally find it difficult to help achieve the knowledge requirements and students with other individual difficulties during their schooling. When a school does not succeed with the students with NPF, we also see that the share of the school that does not qualify for upper secondary school is much higher. This is one reason why we are making the efforts that I described in the interpellation response. There are more actions that are more general but that we see can have a major impact for students me d NPF, both how we today allocate resources to schools more as needed and the legislation on a guarantee of special early interventions that not least disability's legal movement has worked actively for and which lies as a bill on Parliament's table. With regard to the question of what knowledge we have, I share the view that there is a lack of knowledge. There are some things we have, but we know that there are shortcomings in many schools. I mentioned in my interpellation response that of the schools where the School Inspectorate reviewed the last review period – it is not a representative sample, should be said, but it is schools that the School Inspectorate finds particular reason to examine and which are therefore priorities in its review – a third was the failure in the work with special support. I also know from another follow-up that of those students who do not meet the knowledge requirements in ninth grade, many had problems reaching the knowledge requirements already in sixth grade but still did not have an action programme during that period. It is, I judge and underline SPSM, a violation of the law. It does not work in relation to Sweden's law that a student who does not meet the knowledge requirements in sixth grade then goes all the way to ninth grade and still does not reach the knowledge requirements without us seeing that the student has received an action programme during that period. In that case, the support measures to which the student is entitled have not been established by law. So there are those shortcomings. We are aware of this; we have that knowledge. We also have a lot of knowledge of what we can do, and it is constantly evolving as research is strengthened. Thanks to both educational and special pedagogy research but also neuroscience research, we know more about how to set up teaching and plan the school situation in order for students with NPF to succeed in meeting the knowledge requirements. The two know-how we have. What is missing today is follow-up where we can see how this student group is doing at a more individual level. We have some from the associations, as the interpellier mentioned, but we do not have it at state level. It is partly because this is research that is quite difficult to do for reasons of integrity, but we are having a dialogue with the SPSM on what parameters and criteria we could develop. They would be important to have, for example, to be able to target financial resources better than we can do today. If we have better knowledge of how common NPF is in different schools, we can weave this into how we distribute state resources for increased equivalence in schools.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-377	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear the Minister for Education explain how a good school for children with NPF also benefits all children in school, with clarity, order and education. I really do share that picture, and it is therefore high time that the government said that we should include this in the regular teacher training. I am really looking forward to this; it is a very important step. But these children are already in every classroom today, and they do not seem to receive the support they are entitled to. The teachers and other adults who work at school now also need to get these skills, so that they can meet the children properly. Several organisations, including the Brain Fund and Attention, have highlighted the need for a broad national education effort on knowledge of NPF for teachers, principals and other school staff. I am thinking not least of the student assistants, who may have the toughest jobs in Swedish school. They can go in when nothing works and will meet those students who have the greatest need, usually without any education or further training during the time they are there. So we need to work in this way with those who are already in school. The organisations also demand an NPF coordinator function at each school, which can coordinate different efforts so that parents do not have to be pilots at all times. These are some suggestions that I think we can take on board together. Even if you change the legislation, it will take a long time before all teachers in Swedish schools have the right knowledge. I'm sure there are other suggestions too. Many people testify that children with NPF who meet the school's knowledge requirements may still be severely affected by the school's lack of adaptation. They suffer from fatigue, anxiety, and depression. Rasters and time between lessons are often highlighted as very difficult and problematic. Yet it is very difficult to get support in these particular situations, because the school, and indeed the legislation on eligibility and adaptation, is very focused on knowledge requirements. It can only be after a complete palpitation, where the student refuses to go to school as a result of fatigue depression and anxiety, that support is put in. But you have to let the student seriously fail before you take hold of things. I would like to hear a little more about how the Minister for Education wants the staff already in the Swedish school to get the knowledge to meet these students in the right way. And how can children who actually meet the knowledge requirements but are at risk of suffering serious mental illness get the right input on time?
i-rZQNmuqyi2o2FNMwVJDxC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for concrete questions! I fully agree that we need to spread the knowledge about how to work in special pedagogy and how to work with students with NPF throughout the school system. This is the reason for the training programme called Special Education for Learning, which is based on the model of the national school development programmes, i.e. the models made known through mathematics lift and reading lift. Here, too, we can show what priority we give to these issues. In the assignment to the Swedish National Agency for Education, we stressed in particular that it is about learning tools and being able to share tools and approaches when it comes to how to work with NPF. When the assignment was completed and the training started, it received criticism from organisations, parents' groups and others because it did not contain enough about these issues. At that time we ensured that the Swedish National Agency for Education and the organisations met – the Swedish National Agency for Education also did this on its own initiative – to see what could be strengthened in continuing training to give this effect. Today it can be said that such adjustments have been made. This type of training is therefore underway and is being carried out in many schools. We want more schools that go into the model. The Government's objective is that it should be of the same size as the Mathematical Lift and Reading Lift have been. As far as the need for more coordination around the student is concerned, I believe, like Åsa Westlund, that this is the big challenge ahead. One thing we do is through the legislation that the Committee on Education has just dealt with and which is soon coming up for discussion in this House. It's based on the investigation Missing! by Malin Gren Landell. The legislation is built around the working procedures that have been in place in many schools to detect absence and tackle the cause of the individual student's absence. This can be about insecurity in breaks or lack of structure and order. This particularly affects students with NPF but can of course affect all students. If you discover this in time and do what works for that particular student, you can avoid a student acting in a long, problematic absence. This type of legislation can have quite a significant impact. We have seen that it has been given when the routine has been implemented at the schools that are working on this today. Long-term absence never begins as long-term absences, but as short-term absences, often in some subjects and perhaps in connection with the break, when the student left school. If this is discovered in time, it can have an effect. In schools where this does not work today, it is often the case that you do a lot of things. It captures various initiatives and ideas but has not analysed sufficiently why this particular student has difficulties. That's where you have to go deep, and when you do, you can both prevent a student from leaving and help a student who has been there to get back to school. The next step is probably to start rebuilding the systems completely, to be said. This is something I have studied quite carefully. Internationally, we have the Scottish example Girfec, Getting it right for every child, which has been working with for over ten years and which is being implemented in a number of different municipalities in Sweden today. School, not least the functions of student health, are built together with social services and health care to ensure that pupils and parents do not receive different signals and need to have many different government contacts for what is basically the same mission: that the child has the best opportunities to function well in society and bring with them the necessary knowledge to the future. This is hard. It's about breaking cultures and loosening some rules. We have a pilot that we financed through the National Board of Health and Education. It is this type of cultural change that will be needed forward for students with this type of difficulties and also for other students, whose parents can report that they have very many government contacts without actually getting the right support in their job to ensure that children get the right support in terms of school attendance and other things.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for a good account of a very good work going on! As I said, there are many things left to do. I would like to end by quoting the blog Supermamsen of March 7, 2017:
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-397	Today is a really good day! For many, it is obvious that you as a parent have all the children at school where all the children should be. For me and my husband, it's not obvious. We usually have two out of three children at home. Our 7-year-old always goes to school. Our 14-year-old (asperger) has been home from school for more or less two years. There is some school day here and was but not a functioning schooling since the crash and fatigue in the 6th grade. He locks himself often and does not get away. Our 11-year-old (ADD with autistic features) has little presence now in the 5th. The strength usually doesn't exist. Now the 11-year-old has started with Ritalin. I hope that helps! Today I have three out of three children in school. What happiness! I think it's only happened three times this academic year. I can annoy myself with those who just assume that their children are going to school. Those who don't appreciate how good they are... The husband said today, we really have more miracles than ordinary families! ..................................................... And we have enough! How many parents are jumping and hugging with running tears when all their children are in school? ..................................................... I think this is a deeply touching insight into the everyday life of an ordinary NPF family. Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for the fact that we have been able to discuss these important issues together for a moment in the Chamber of Parliament.
i-84cru7YBXtmq7YWPGxWhXT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund! I recognise this from many parents, both in parent networks and parents you meet in other contexts, who are just discussing the difficulties when you do not feel that the authorities or the school are on your side in the mission to ensure that your children get the best upbringing and future prospects. Instead, this becomes a constant fight. This is linked to many other challenges in the school area: the lack of resources, which we are breaking, and the drain pipes between school, social services and health care, which I mentioned. Many times we also give support so late that students' self-esteem, self-esteem or, for many of the students with NPF, as we have talked about, the desire for school, has broken down along the way. If we turn those trends around, we can also turn it around for students with NPF. But the opposite also applies. If we start the work of trying to adapt the school and teaching for students with NPF, we can succeed with many of the school's other challenges. Securing special education with special support for extra adaptation is a key to security, study, desire for learning and the ability to adapt teaching to pupils' differences. We need to do this for all students in school. Thank you very much, Åsa Westlund, for lifting this up! I can assure you that the Ministry of Education may continue to work very closely with the strong organisations working in the disability rights movement and with parental networks and others working for, with and by students and parents who come close to NPF.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-411	Mr President, I would like to Ida Drougge has asked me whether, with my criticism of Lidingö Municipality, I believe that people who are staying in Sweden, for example after the end of their period of establishment, on the same terms as other residents should have different regulations for how they are treated in the housing queue. Housing is central to new arrivals' ability to get to work and start their new life in Sweden. For households without safe housing, the possibility of establishing themselves in Swedish society is made more difficult, with socio-economic consequences as well as negative consequences for the individual. The law on the reception of certain newly arrived immigrants for residence was adopted by a large majority in the Riksdag. The purpose of the Act is for all municipalities to take joint responsibility for the reception in order to improve the establishment of newcomers in working and social life. The distribution of instructions must take into account, among other things, the local government's labour market conditions, population size and the same reception of new arrivals. The municipalities are responsible for the housing supply, and according to law, they must plan for the housing supply in the municipality. The aim of the planning shall be to create the conditions for everyone in the municipality to live in good housing and to promote the preparation and implementation of appropriate measures for the housing supply. Municipalities must have up-to-date guidelines for housing supply, setting targets for housing construction, development of the stock and the measures planned by the municipality to achieve the targets set. The data in the guidelines shall be based, inter alia, on an analysis of demographic trends, demand for housing, housing needs for specific groups and market conditions. Municipalities have several tools that can be used to facilitate the situation in the housing market. Some examples are planning land for housing construction, giving owner directives to utility housing companies, building dwellings with fixed-term building permits and using social contracts. The municipality can also provide housing. However, there is no uniform housing agency system, and many municipalities use priority services. The tools that should be used to create the conditions for everyone in the municipality to live in good housing are the k ommunerna themselves best suited to decide. The Government works to support the municipalities in their work on housing supply. Since 2016, SEK 3.65 billion has been paid out in state grants for increased residential building, and this year just under SEK 1.40 billion is paid out. The Government has also set up an investigation that will examine, among other things, whether municipalities need more tools to work with housing supply. It is also important to increase the range of rental dwellings with lower rents. Since the Government's investment aid investment initiative, which includes conditions for standard rental and reasonable requirements for tenants, was introduced in 2017, more than 10,000 housing units have been granted support.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-417	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the Government answers the question clearly enough. If you go out and criticise an individual municipality, as the Government has done with Lidingö, I assume you have an eye on the situation that prevails in the municipality and in the country in general. I therefore assume that the Government will know that the City of Lidingö will of course comply with the social services law in force. To the extent that people have different priority to housing, this is stipulated in the Social Services Act. This law follows the town of Lidingö, of course, just like any other municipality. What Lidingö – with several municipalities, should be added – does is to say that new arrivals, just like everyone else in Sweden, after completing the establishment period that the state has stipulated and said apply in order to be able to get resources, money and support from Arbetsförmedlingen, need to apply for housing and get help with this according to the Social Services Act and that there should be no further forwards than those that apply there. As I said, it is not only Lidingö, but it is 20 out of 25 municipalities in Storstockholm that apply short-term contracts for new arrivals, in slightly different ways. The fact that it is in different ways is, in my opinion, extremely bad and regrettable. This is because the preparatory work for the Government's legislation is unclear, and that is why newcomers today are treated differently in different municipalities – the legal situation is unclear. I would have preferred it to be clear in the law how long the municipalities should stand for housing and how long it is considered that the start-up period is going on, so that the municipalities had not guessed out, interpret preliminary work and use, for example, the start-up time of the Public Employment Service as a yardstick for making this assessment. My question, as I meant it, is: Does the Government consider that people in Sweden who are staying here on the same terms and with the same opportunities as others should have their own regulations outside the Social Services Act and be able to get housing by priority at the expense of others? I understand, of course, that it is really hard for newcomers to find housing, especially on Lidingö. That is why the situation looks like it does, especially in Stockholm County. For example, in environmental party-controlled Sundbyberg short-term contracts are also applied. It's very difficult – for new arrivals and for everyone else too. That's why this worries me. I can wonder what is really happening to Sweden and to a Stockholm where you have stood ten years in the housing queue, since childhood. I know several single mothers who have been in the housing queue for a long time but who do not have a home but are referred to various short-term contracts, who move around and who live in hostels with their children. They do everything they can to get a home and have done it for a long time, and so comes another group that is opposed to them, gets priority directly and gets housing. I do not think this is good for Sweden, but I would have wished that everyone could be treated more equally.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-425	Mr President, I would like to This is a rather strange debate, I think. In many municipalities around Sweden, housing responsibility is taken very seriously. You help to the best of your ability and ensure that the residents get a place to live. It has been quite a long time since the housing shortage in Sweden, and it is larger in different places. But it is not that it is more difficult to build or develop housing in Lidingö or in any of the other well-off Stockholm municipalities than it is in many other parts of Sweden. We have got immigrants to Sweden – some are allowed to stay while others have been refused their visa applications and have had to leave again. However, for those who have been allowed to stay, the municipalities have received a substantial sum from the state in order to be able to take an extra responsibility during this time. This means that municipalities have plenty of time to help strengthen the housing situation, build permanent or temporary housing and ensure that the situation is resolved in a good way. Then you can choose. Do you want to do the least that the law requires, or do you try to resolve the issue as well as the situation requires? I believe that the way in which the city of Lidingö acts in this case is one that leads to increased social costs. If we agree that integration is important and that it is important that we shorten the time for integration and ensure that people get housing and work as quickly as possible, then we should probably act in such a way as to participate and help here instead of creating a situation where the new arrivals are forced to move several times and are unable to root out and ensure that they get a job and cope with their situation. That is what I have reacted to. If you act in a way in municipalities that increases costs and makes problems more difficult for the individual, then you act in a negative way for society as a whole.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-430	Mr President, I would like to This debate deserves a little more accurate facts. I should like to begin by saying that in a number of municipalities governed by the Green Party, the same principles are also applied as in Lidingö. I believe that the Government is well aware that we have a municipal levelling system in Sweden that allows municipalities with better conditions and whose residents have good conditions from the beginning to equalise and pay for other municipalities that do not have these conditions. We have a levelling system that equalises both conditions and outcomes. Lidingö, as one of the few municipalities in Sweden, pays money for this system – much more than you receive yourself. To paint special archetypal low-cost municipalities, as the Government does, I think is extremely unfair. I do not think this debate deserves it. This is a very difficult situation, of course for all those in need of housing – for new arrivals and for all our young people in Sweden who have no place to live and who want to leave home and start their own lives or study elsewhere but who may have to turn down a place of education because there is no home at the place of study. It is a pity that we are going to lower the debate to the level that the Government is doing. Of course, it is different difficult for municipalities in Sweden to arrange housing. I don't understand how it couldn't be. Lidingö is the fifth most densely populated municipality in Sweden. If you already have a lot of homes, it is clear that it is harder to build more. We also have great natural areas on Lidingö that the state has designated as a nature reserve. I don't think the government wants us to build there. Then I can see that Lidingö has managed its reception, and every stone has been turned and turned. All new arrivals who have been assigned to Lidingö during this period when we have had a residence law and have previously received a residence. It is also relatively good for the new arrivals that Lidingö receives. In recent times, many of the people who have had a home for two years and have been laid off from it have actually arranged a home. They're not on the street. The same results can be seen in Sundbyberg, which is governed by the Green Party. There are more people who have been laid off from their home than it is so far on Lidingö. All there have been offered a dwelling. So they're not on the street either. I would like the Government to respond and a little bit to develop why he thinks that this particular group should have the right to specific exceptions. Does the Government not realise that it creates contradictions in our society? Many representatives of the Green Party often say that we should not put a group against a group. But I can see this in no other way than that that is what is being done in this case. The Government also goes in and accuses and criticises a municipality where there is a court case.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-438	Mr President, I would like to My problem is linked to the historical development in Sweden. Over the past few decades, we have had quite a strong population growth, not only because we have got migrants to Sweden but also because we have had a growing population internally in Sweden. In the past, a very large proportion of newcomers came to only a few municipalities. I remember once when people from Södertälje City Council went to the United States. It turned out that Södertälje had received more refugees from war-torn areas in the Middle East than the entire United States had received in the then current situation. During this parliamentary term, we have tried to make a change, so that more municipalities will stand up and participate in taking their share of this. It will be better for everyone if you try to take joint and several responsibility around Sweden. It is about the so-called instruction law. Only some of the new arrivals come to Sweden according to that principle. In fact, it is a minority of those who have come here. Nevertheless, the instruction law has worked in such a way that everyone has now been present. Even municipalities like Lidingö have taken a little more responsibility than they have before. I am very happy about that. It has been important that it is that way. But it is still the case that the other laws relating to social services and other matters must be complied with. I do not think we need any new laws in this regard. Possibly, we may need to tighten the Housing Supply Act further. I have just received an investigation that points to a clarification of the Housing Supply Act so that we ensure that we develop housing for everyone in the Swedish municipalities. This may be a way forward to ensure that we are able to cope with this task a little better in the future. It is not only Lidingö that one might think should be able to take a little greater responsibility, but there are quite a few municipalities that are on such a list if one were to do so. I think it would be good for the whole of Sweden if everyone took a little greater joint and several responsibility. That's what I'm after. However, I am not interested in interfering in the way the court decides. In this case, it is not at all a question of criticising the Court or even the rules, but of trying to take reasonable responsibility and comply with the laws we have. In some situations, one might think that there are a number of municipalities that can take greater joint and social responsibility in this way.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-444	Mr President, I would like to A total of 25 per cent of Sweden's municipalities themselves have indicated that they use short-term contracts. But I cannot interpret the Government in any other way than that if the City of Lidingö were to win in the court proceedings currently under way on this acquis, if it had the right to grant new arrivals short-term contracts for a home of two years – it had won in the first instance – the Government was prepared to change the legislation and to change the Housing Instructions Act. I cannot interpret the Government in any other way. I do not think the Government really answered the question. But we can ignore that and instead choose to talk about what is best for integration and how to stand in the situation that we have. I am convinced – we will see – that it is very important that, as a newcomer early on, you find out that you have been granted a residence permit in Sweden, have to live here, adapt and live in Swedish society, are told that you have the main task of getting a home yourself. You don't get a place for life when you get here. You have to take that responsibility yourself, just like everyone else in Sweden – even though it is difficult and even though it is a lack of housing. If it had not been a housing shortage, if other groups in Sweden had not found it difficult to find a dwelling, the situation would have been completely different.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-448	Mr President, I would like to I have listened a lot to Ida Drougges's party leader Ulf Kristersson. One of the things he usually talks about is that one of the greatest challenges of our time is integration. If we can resolve the issue of integration, a lot of other things will follow. The whole of society must help create opportunities for people to enter. If people enter society, they start paying taxes more and faster than before. They then participate in the common and create wealth for welfare rather than being a cost. We now see in Sweden that time is greatly reduced for integration. The time for 50 percent of new arrivals to work has fallen from nine years to five years in the latest statistics I have read. It is a significant shortening of time. If it is to continue to succeed, some cannot stand outside and side by. Everyone has to be in that job. To develop housing so that there is housing for everyone in Sweden is one of the most central starting points. If you have a dwelling, you can then take the next step. Then you can start studying, working and paying taxes. However, if, after a short period of time, you get kicked out of the home you have received in the past, this integration will take a lot longer, and it will cost the whole of society a lot. It also burdens other groups. A perspective where groups are asked against groups means that you have to think long-term: How do we all gain by solving the issue?
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-453	Mr President, I would like to Ida Drougge has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to propose that housing in temporary building permits be granted permanent leases. Ida Drougge writes in the interpellation that I want to give permanent possession of housing with fixed-term building permits. That's not true. It is already possible for a property owner to offer housing property protection contracts with fixed-term building permits. Whether it is appropriate in view of the fact that the dwelling will cease on the site is up to the property owner to assess, possibly taking into account the length of the permission granted. A mandatory provision providing the tenant with possession protection in dwellings with fixed-term building permits is liable to discourage the construction of such dwellings. It is of course important for the municipality, together with building operators and property owners, to create long-term and sustainable solutions for construction and housing. I maintain that fixed-term building permits can be a good complement to permanent building where housing needs cannot be fully met through regular planning and construction processes. It also provides good opportunities for more efficient land use, for example during ongoing planning and construction processes. That is why the government changed and simplified the framework for fixed-term building permits. These were rules that came into force almost a year ago and were demanded by the municipalities. I would also like to add that it is possible to apply for investment aid for the construction of rental dwellings also with fixed-term building permits.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-457	Mr President, I would like to Now my question was not whether the Government thought or has said that municipalities should give permanent possession rights to housing with temporary building permits. I wondered whether the Government intends to work for this. When the Housing Instructions Act, which we have discussed just before, came into force, while the large reception in the municipalities of Sweden increased sharply in 2015 and beyond, the government, the minister's representatives and others in the government referred to temporary housing as a solution. The rules for the construction of temporary dwellings were also reviewed in order to further facilitate the designation of housing for newly arrived residents in the municipalities. I note that the government has turned the issue. It is thought and said that municipalities should provide permanent housing for new arrivals. They will receive first-hand contracts for permanent housing. It is not possible for a dwelling that is built with temporary building permits. This is where the help given by the government to Sweden's municipalities comes in the form of some reliefs to build barracks or so-called modules, when you also mean that the new arrivals will live there for the rest of their lives. In addition, it is believed that the municipalities are responsible for providing housing for the new arrivals' entire life in Sweden. Hence my question. The Minister for Housing is happy to answer how the government now believes that already densely populated municipalities should succeed in the big challenge.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-462	Mr President, I would like to That's a lot of what Ida Drougge brought up that was a little messy. I find it hard to believe that my predecessor has said that temporary housing is the solution. However, it can be a partial solution to a temporary problem, so that permanent housing can be produced in the meantime so that you can cope with the housing shortage in the long term. As I said in my previous reply, I think temporary housing can be a good solution. It can also be an effective form when there is a need for land, for example when you know that within a number of years the land will be needed for something else. In the meantime, however, temporary housing can be provided in the area. Nor has anyone claimed that all new arrivals will receive housing for their entire lives. No one has demanded such a thing. It is a question of ensuring that the integration phase goes a little faster and does not make this process more difficult or more expensive either for individuals or for society as a whole. It is completely unnecessary to introduce a decision on permanent contracts for temporary housing because it is already possible today. It's up to the real estate owner. If the property owner can offer temporary housing elsewhere or permanent housing at the next stage, it is not a problem, but it is the property owner who decides.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-467	Mr President, I would like to I don't think what I said was very messy. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that it is an attempt by the Minister to exercise some form of master technique against me when he says so. Anyone who listens or looks at this debate can google and check that government representatives, both Ylva Johansson and others, have explicitly said in their replies to Sweden's municipalities that temporary building permits are a solution for finding housing for new arrivals. This can be checked by everyone, and I naturally also recommend the Government to do so. For how long does the Minister think that a new arrival should be allowed to have a place of residence? I understand that the Government thinks it is wrong with two years, but then how long should it be? There are many other groups that also find it very difficult to establish themselves and gain an independent life in Sweden – if only by, for example, starting an education, which we have been into both this debate and before. These people are not given special priority to housing. I agree that it is difficult to establish and work in one place and that it is difficult to root when you need to move, but I do not see that this can be a reason for getting a special priority. Then we would have to give special priority to large parts of the entire Swedish population. What we have to do is try to solve the housing shortage we have and to create conditions in the labour market so that more people can have their own livelihoods, regardless of where they live in the country. This is not entirely easy, and I therefore find it sad that we have a government which in this way criticises municipalities which actually have very good results even in terms of integration as such. Lidingö is painted as well as all other municipalities that do this as municipalities that do not strive to create good integration. That's far from true.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-472	Mr President, I would like to It's Monday and sunny. Not a person sits here in the hall, although we have such a tense working week that has begun. I think we are now getting to the heart of the matter. It's about building houses. We must try to ensure that we build housing for everyone, whether you have a large wallet or not. We must try to make sure that this is done around Sweden. All municipalities, the state and the regions have a responsibility there. During the last period, the county administrative boards have also received a mandate from me to help and support the municipalities in solving this issue. Some municipalities take this very seriously, others do not so much. I find it very difficult to buy the idea that it would be harder to build on Lidingö than in other places. It's an area where it's possible to build. You can get higher prices. There is a great demand for housing on Lidingö, and there are many who want to build. Whether you build housing on Lidingö is probably very much about political will. One can probably not blame that there are nature reserves there or something like that, but it is possible to build much more housing on Lidingö if the political will to do so exists. That's where I'd like Ida Drougge to be with me. There is now an agreement between the parties to ensure that everyone is involved in taking responsibility and also to a greater extent demands that they take such political responsibility around Sweden. I do not want to paint Lidingö in particular, but this is very different in different municipalities. But it is a little too many municipalities that choose not to build, even though there are good conditions to do so. This is a concern and a problem. If even more people go into this line, which leads to an even worse housing shortage in Sweden, we will end up in a situation where it will eventually be necessary to legislate tougher and harder. That would be unfortunate, because I appreciate the municipal self-government and believe that it is an important part of the Swedish model. But, like many other issues, it requires responsibility from those concerned.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-478	Mr President, I would like to We obviously have different views on whether Lidingö or other municipalities assume their responsibilities in terms of housing supply. I think, not surprisingly, that Lidingö very well does. It is the fifth most densely populated municipality in all of Sweden – this if anything should say something. In 2015, Lidingö was among the municipalities that completed the most dwellings in the whole country. I therefore think that Mr Lidingö is taking on his responsibilities very well. Then of course Lidingö, like all municipalities, wants to think about how to build it so that it fits with existing buildings, so that you create pleasant environments and so that you care about the values that the municipality has and that makes people move there. I also think that one has the right to do so and that one should do so. I think there are many in Stockholm who are happy that we have Lidingö, for example, which is relatively close to the town but where you can still run Lidingöloppet in terrain and in fine nature. I think many people are happy to have access to this. Large parts of these areas – but not all of them – are, as I said, also nature reserves. Of course, more housing will also be built on Lidingö in the future. At that time, however, I think that it is not only necessary as a government to point out this with temporary building permits, which would be a solution in 2015 or now – to move new arrivals from old temporary building permits to new temporary building permits, which the Government was a little bit concerned with. It should also be made easier so that permanent housing can be achieved more quickly.
i-033bd19fb08eb7b2-482	Mr President, I would like to I think, as I said, that the housing shortage should be solved with permanent housing. During a transitional period temporary housing may be a partial solution, but that is not the whole solution, as Ida Drougge said earlier that someone had said. I do not think that anyone has said that – at least not someone in a responsible position. I will be pleased if we can conclude this debate – which in itself is important – by agreeing that we have to build housing so that we solve the housing shortage throughout Sweden and that we have to build housing for everyone.
