i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-0	Honourable Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! As President of Parliament, I would like to warmly welcome you to the first meeting of the newly elected Parliament. In particular, let me welcome you 110, who are completely new Members. You are warmly welcome. This is the first time the new Parliament has gathered, and you might wonder: Who are we really? The numbers give some answers. We represent the whole of Sweden – all of our 29 constituencies – and we represent eight parties. The average age is 45 years. The oldest of us is 85 years old and the youngest 22 years old. It spans the whole scale. 46% of us are women and 54% are men. This is a higher proportion of women than when the newly elected parliament took office in 2014. At the time there were 44 percent women and 56 percent men. On average, we have served as Members of Parliament for five years. So most of them have quite a long way to go before they can take over the role of interim president. Last but not least, I would also like to say something about voting turnout. 87 per cent took part in the elections this year, and I am pleased to say that this is an upswing. In the last election, barely 86 per cent took part. This is very nice to see. The elections and thus the turnout are vital elements of our democracy. The Swedish Parliament will, starting this autumn, pay attention to and celebrate the anniversary of democracy – we celebrate 100 years, which is great and important. It is a special anniversary with many different activities, and we will be doing it for years. You're supposed to celebrate properly when you have the opportunity. We Members of Parliament have, in my opinion, a special task to work for, explain and nurture democracy every day, every year, every moment and in every context. This is one of our most important tasks. Being elected MP is having the confidence to represent the Swedish people. It is an exciting mission, but it also means a lot of seriousness and responsibility. It will not always be easy, and it will often be very much for each of us to do. I would like to encourage you to make the best use of the fantastic opportunities that exist in Parliament to be involved in shaping the future of Sweden. All public power emanates from the people. We are elected representatives, and that is something to manage. It is now our job to take advantage of the confidence that the voters have given us. With those words, I declare the first session of the Riksdag open.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-106	Mrs. Old President! Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! The Speaker of the Parliament has been appointed according to principles and practice from the largest party in the Riksdag or from the largest party in the largest party constellation in the Riksdag. Nevertheless, we have opened up talks across the block to try to reach the widest possible consensus on the presidential elections. Regrettably, the four bourgeois parties have rejected our call for cooperation. By going forward without discussion with a candidate themselves, the bourgeois parties have made themselves dependent on the support of the Swedish Democrats to have their candidate elected. We're sorry about that. It is a departure from the principles and practices which have so far formed the basis for the election of Presidents. We regret it because such a consensus would have resulted in much broader support for the President. We regret this when the consensus we sought would have strengthened the independence of the Presidency in a difficult parliamentary situation. Since we have not succeeded in achieving the desired consensus, we are now nominateing a President in accordance with previous principles and practice – a candidate drawn from the largest party in Parliament and from the largest party in the largest party constellation. Together with the Green Party and the Left Party, we today nominate Åsa Lindestam as Speaker of the Riksdag. The Speaker of the Swedish Parliament needs to have a broad network of contacts and be able to represent Sweden in a commendable way. The task is also to ensure that Parliament's work is conducted in a responsible manner. The President must therefore be an impartial representative of the whole Parliament and the whole people. It is the opinion of the Social Democrats that Åsa Lindestam has the expertise and experience required for the important task of leading the work of the Swedish Parliament during the next parliamentary term. She has been a member of the Swedish Parliament for 16 years and has a broad political experience from the Defence Committee, the war delegation and the Foreign Affairs Committee. Defence and foreign policy are areas where cooperation across party and bloc boundaries is the most important. During her time in the Riksdag, Åsa Lindestam has shown that she has a unique communicative ability and that she can constructively bring together groups and balance opinions against each other. She's open and listening. These are the characteristics needed to find broad common positions and constructive agreements. At this time of parliamentary uncertainty, we believe that Åsa Lindestam is the most suitable candidate to represent Sweden and the Swedish parliament. I also call for the elections to be held by secret ballot.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-114	Mrs. Old President! Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! We are meeting today to begin a new parliamentary term. Much is as it usually is, but not everything. The parliamentary situation is described by many – rightly – as complicated. However, the voters have clearly marked the end of the current government. In an uncertain parliamentary situation, the President plays an important role. The parliamentary work will be challenging and set high demands on both members and administration. The person who is to lead the work of the Riksdag has a central task that requires special characteristics and competences. The President of the newly elected Parliament should have a deep understanding and respect for both the political and legal dimension of parliamentary work and good transparency in government work. The party should have broad confidence in the parliamentary parties and have a documented ability and experience to lead negotiations to agreement even on complex and multifaceted political and constitutional issues. Against this background, I propose, on behalf of juris Andreas Norlén, most recently Chairman of the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, to the Speaker of the Swedish Parliament, on behalf of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and Liberals' parliamentary groups. Andreas Norlén has been a Member of Parliament since 2006 and has previously worked as a researcher and teacher. As Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Andreas Norlén has demonstrated an ability to lead and reach broad agreements and consensus across party boundaries. Andreas Norlén has led the work of the Constitutional Committee beyond party political considerations of unity and legal stringency. The Presidency is the highest elected office in the kingdom. Following the 1974 constitutional reform, the President exercises several important constitutional powers. In view of the extensive and sometimes delicate tasks carried out by the President, it is particularly important at the present time to protect the independence of the Presidency, the importance of skill, dignity and broad recognition of parliamentary parties. It is not explicitly regulated from which party or group of parties the President is to be picked up. There has never been a broad consensus within Parliament on this issue. There is therefore no generally recognised practice. The Socialist Group has always been of the opinion that the President should be a Social Democrat, regardless of the result of the elections or majority voting in Parliament. We have never shared this view. After the elections, the Alliance is the largest single bloc in the Riksdag. Andreas Norlén, with his experience and qualifications, should be able to pool broad support in this House. Mrs. Old President! We demand that the elections be held with closed notes.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-121	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by congratulating Andreas Norlén, who has been elected President. Congratulations! As the House has elected him as President, the Social Democrats, Åsa Lindestam, nominate as First Vice-President, in accordance with the arguments I have expressed in the past.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-122	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament! I'll try to get through this despite the, at this point in time, the usual flu. It is an important election we have before us now: the election of the second Vice-President. It is an important election for an important, symbolic function in the Swedish Parliament. It is an important choice for a position that is important for how Parliament's work and inner life should work. It is also an important election because this particular election, just this year, will have a decisive impact on what signals the Riksdag sends out to the population about what principles it thinks should guide when appointing positions of trust in the Riksdag. As things stand, a large number of parties seem to be prepared to deviate completely from the practice and order that has been in force until today. It is prepared to go so far as to completely scrap the principle of proportionality. You are prepared to go so far as to think that it should not matter at all how it has gone for a party in an election when it comes to the appointment of positions of trust in the Riksdag. I think that would be very unfortunate. It is about respect for more than 1.1 million people who voted for the Swedish Democrats and what signal they want to send to them. That is what this choice is also about. The Swedish Democrats have decided to nominate Björn Söder as the second vice-president so far. Björn Söder has served Swedish democracy for almost two decades as a elected representative of the municipality, county council and parliament. Björn Söder has many years of experience as a member of several of Parliament's various committees, as a group leader and as a representative of the Riksdag Board. These qualifications made Björn Söder a well-qualified candidate for the post of second vice-president already after the last election. To this can now also be added four years of experience as second vice-president, a mission he has conducted in a blameless way. Those who have worked closely with Björn in the performance of his duties have only good testimony to give about how Björn has behaved and acted in his role as second vice-president. In a situation where we now appear to have a Presidium of Presidents where no one else has previous experience of the mission, we believe that Björn could contribute with experience and continuity that could be valuable in a very difficult situation. Although no one, as I have said, has been able to accuse Björn of making any errors in the performance of his duties – on the contrary, he has very good credentials in how he has performed his duties – there has been a slander and slander campaign against Björn Söder in his role as second vice-president who is probably unprecedented in the history of the Riksdag. It has openly shown defiance and disrespect for Björn, not only in his capacity as politician but also as President-in-Office of the Council. I think this has been something quite unique. It has been done on the basis of fictional quotations. We politicians have a tendency to quite often tilt and twist a little on what our opponents say. However, various claims have different serious consequences. The allegations and lies that have spread about Björn Söder and about what he is considered to think and have for opinions are very serious and have been going on for years now. I think the limit is reached. There must be some sort of decency limit to how much we can lie about and slander each other. That limit is reached now. Björn Söder does not think that Jews cannot be Swedes. He's never claimed it. He has just said that the Jewish minority does not need to have a Swedish identity if they do not want to, and that is something he supports. There's a big difference. All statements about the opposite that will be made in the media after this sitting and where the opposite is claimed to be a lie. A great deal has been said about the importance of the second Vice-President becoming a person who can represent Swedish democracy in a dignified way and who stands up for human rights. Mrs. Old President! I mean, Björn Söder is such a person. Björn Söder has worked very hard in recent years, including the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to ensure that as many people as possible in the world have access to free, open and democratic elections. He has been a driving, leading force in this regard. Björn Söder has for almost two decades consistently and forcefully stood up for the Jewish people's right to security and security, in both Israel and Sweden. On the other side of this election and in this respect, there is a party with representation in this House which has organised cooperation with anti-Semitic groups engaged in violence against civilian Jews, a party whose representatives have even paid money to anti-Semitic terrorist organisations that have murdered civilian Jews. For almost two decades, Björn Söder has consistently and forcefully stood up for the recognition of the Seyfo genocide and for the victims of this genocide and their relatives to receive redress. Björn Söder has for two decades worked consistently and forcefully to improve information about communism's crimes against humanity, which is one of the worst that the world has seen. On the other hand in this regard there is a party with representation in this House which supported the dictators who were responsible for these crimes against humanity and who have since worked to combat the disclosure of these crimes. Mrs. Old President! In 2006, I attended a training meeting in Eslöv, Skåne, which was arranged for newly elected municipal politicians and was to deal with, among other things, the municipal budget process. The meeting was attacked by masked and armed left-wing extremists who tried to enter the hall to beat up the newly elected elected representatives. Björn Söder then blocked the entrance to the premises with his body, not by resorting to violence himself, but only by stopping the thugs and trying to keep them for as long as possible until the police could come. He largely succeeded in this purpose. Only Björn Söder was seriously injured. He was so badly injured that he had to be taken to the hospital with an ambulance. A few days later – as soon as he could get out of the hospital – he sat down in a television debate and had a calm and objective debate with one of the representatives of the extremists, stressing the importance of countering political violence, exchanging thoughts and ideas with words and standing up for democracy. In my view, this is how a worthy representative of Swedish democracy acts. That, in my view, is how a worthy candidate for President acts. On the other hand, we have a party with representation in this House that was already working with these very violent extremists who tried to get in and beat up our newly elected elected representatives and who made sure that Björn Söder had an ambulance to go to the hospital. That's where the election stands. For me, the choice is simple.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-138	Madam interim president and members of the Swedish Parliament! On behalf of the Left Party, I would like to nominate Lotta Johnsson Fornarve as second Vice-President, and I would like to say right now that I request a secret ballot. In recent weeks there has been a lot of talk about principles and practices to be followed. For the Left Party, practice is important. Our view is that the President should be taken from the main party. But over the years it has sometimes been from the largest party and sometimes from the second largest party that the President has been picked up. However, an important principle has applied all the time: The President should enjoy great confidence in the Riksdag, be able to represent Sweden and, of course, share fundamental values, as everyone's equal value. For the Left, it is important that the Vice-Presidents can also represent the whole country and all the inhabitants. In the Presidency you do not represent your party, but you represent the entire Parliament and all Swedes no matter where we were born, what language we speak at home, what god we pray to and who we love. It represents Sweden's minorities – Sami, Jews, tornadoes, Swedish Finns and Roma. We live at a time when many suffer from homophobia and racism. The fact that Sweden's top representatives can represent all of us is important. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve can do it. She is deeply entrenched in Folk Movement Sweden. She was one of the organisers of the successful anti-apartheid work of the Isolera South Africa Committee, Isak, which was carried out together with a wide range of organisations to abolish apartheid in South Africa. International engagement has continued. In the Riksdag, she has been assigned to the Council of Europe, the Defence Committee and the Defence Committee. Lotta has a long parliamentary experience at local, national and European level. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve is an excellent representative of the Riksdag and Sweden, and she is a good election for second vice-president.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-144	Mrs. Old President! The Social Democrats have stubbornly tried to assert principles and practices in the presidential elections. Now that the Moderates have welcomed the Swedish Democrats' support for choosing, contrary to principles and practice, a candidate for President from the second largest party and the smallest party constellation in the Riksdag, we can state that we have been alone in trying to uphold principles and practices. You cannot expect to be represented according to principles that you yourself break. The Swedish Democrats are a party that repeatedly makes a difference between Swedes and Swedes and persists in trying to rank people based on sexual orientation or cultural or ethnic affiliation. This has not least been the case for Björn Söder. Such a party and such a person are not suitable to represent the Swedish Parliament as second vice-president. Therefore, when a counter-candidate is presented, we will not contribute to the representation of the Swedish Democrats in the Presidium of Presidents and the election of Björn Söder as second Vice-President. The Social Democrats will therefore vote in favour of the election of Lotta Johnsson Fornarve as second vice-president.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-147	Mrs. Old President! For the Christian Democrats, the principle of proportionality is important. We believe that it should continue to apply to the election of other Vice-Presidents. We find it regrettable that parties in the Swedish Parliament believe that the outcome of the elections should not be taken into account when appointing other Vice-Presidents and that they do not respect the principle of proportionality. It is natural for parties that have no candidate to abstain and abstain. Since none of the two proposed candidates is the candidate of the Christian Democrats, our line is to vote blankly in the election of the second Vice-President.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-149	Mrs. Old President! The Liberals' parliamentary group is strongly critical of the Swedish democrats' nomination of Björn Söder as second vice-president. We will vote against the proposal by choosing the blank ballots. It is a candidate who divides Parliament rather than achieve broad acceptance. It is a candidate who, with recurrent prejudiced and grossly generalising statements, has shown that he is inappropriate in the post of second vice-president. Mrs. Old President! At the same time, the principle of proportionality shall apply to the election of Vice-Presidents. The three Vice-Presidents shall be elected from the three main parties which have not received a representative from their own ranks in the post of President, in accordance with the practice which has applied since the introduction of the Parliament. Items shall be filled according to the size of the three lots, in descending order. Liberals see no reason whatsoever to depart from this practice. The Swedish Democrats are therefore entitled, as a result of the election result, to the position of second Vice-President. Against this background, there is also no reason to vote for a Left Party candidate. The mission as Vice-President is special. Like the Speaker, the Vice-Presidents shall represent the entire Parliament. The Vice-President shall be a good representative of Sweden and its entire population. The President or Vice-President shall be subject to particularly high standards of judgement and fitness. The fact that the Swedish Democrats nominate the Member of Parliament Björn Söder for this post, despite the fact that the criticism is well known, is therefore very unfortunate. The members of the Liberals will elect the blank ballot in the election of the second Vice-President. For us, it is a clear statement that the Liberal parliamentary group says no to Björn Söder, but we vote in accordance with practice.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-155	Mrs. Old President! Honourable Members of Parliament! The posts of Vice-Presidents have historically been allocated to the parties in relation to their size in this House. The Alliance parties consider that the principle of proportionality should continue to apply to the election of Vice-Presidents. It is regrettable that there are parties in this House who do not respect this principle. None of the two proposed candidates is the Alliance's candidate. The Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals will therefore vote blankly in the election of second Vice-Presidents.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-157	Mrs. Old President! Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! The 2018 elections, as well as the 2014 elections, resulted in the Swedish Democrats becoming Parliament's third largest party. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, they have therefore chosen to nominate Björn Söder as second vice-president. The Center Party is the ideological counter-pole of the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats are a party with roots in Swedish Nazism. They have an authoritarian, nationalist idea base which is the opposite of what the Center Party stands for. On a large number of issues of substance policy, they find themselves in exactly the opposite positions against the Center Party. They have also chosen to nominate a person who, on a number of occasions during the previous term of office, has made statements that are racist and deeply unworthy. The Center Party is therefore not behind the Swedish Democrats, and above all not the nomination they have chosen to make. We do not support Björn Söder as Sweden's second vice-president. However, we cannot vote in favour of a Vice-President of the Left Party, the second wing party of the Parliament. Today, therefore, as after the 2014 elections and in the same way as the four parties of the Alliance, as did the Green Party and the Social Democrats at the time, we will mark this by voting in a blank manner.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-160	Mrs. Old President! To the post of second vice-president, we will vote for the Left Party candidate, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve. The members of the Environmental Party cannot support Björn Söder as we believe he cannot be a representative of the whole of Sweden. Last time we abstained. Then there was no counter-candidacy. Now there's a counter-candidacy. And we think it is important to signal that we stand up for the principle of equal value for all.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-162	Madam President-in-Office of the Council and honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! After the 2018 elections, the Center Party is Parliament's fourth largest party. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, I would therefore like to nominate Kerstin Lundgren as third vice-president. Kerstin Lundgren has a very long parliamentary experience in municipal politics in Södertälje and from Stockholm County Council and has been a member of the Swedish Parliament since 2002. She has a great deal of knowledge in two important areas of the Presidency. She sat during her first period here in the Parliament on the Constitutional Committee and also participated in the parliamentary constitutional inquiry, which resulted, among other things, in a mandatory prime minister's vote. Since 2006, she has been a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Affairs spokesperson of the Centre Party. Kerstin has great integrity and experience in leading both meetings and delegations. As third vice-president, she has every opportunity to become an excellent representative of the Swedish Parliament.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-167	Madam President-in-Office of the Council and honourable Members of Parliament! After the previous vote, I can see that Parliament has deviated from the principle of proportionality, which several of the group leaders have spoken out in favour of. We have four bourgeois group leaders who have been up on several occasions saying how much they support the principle of proportionality. We also have me, who also supports the principle of proportionality. Yet Parliament has scrapped the principle of proportionality. Any bourgeois representative may very much ask for the floor and explain to me how this can happen; it is surely more than I who wonder. We should have obtained the position of second Vice-President in all reasonable terms, given the result of the elections. This was not the case, but since I hope that the bourgeois side will stand by its word that it is behind the principle of proportionality, I choose instead – in the name of reasonableness, by virtue of our election results and as the third largest party in the country – to nominate Björn Söder for the post of third vice-president. It remains to be seen whether or not the bourgeoisie is living up to its principles. Given the previous vote, it might have been more appropriate to quote Karl Marx, but some bourgeois members obviously already know some of his teachings. Instead, I will quote Groucho Marx, because that is what comes to mind when I hear certain speeches from the bourgeoisie. He said: I'm very hard on my principles, but if they don't fit, I have new ones. I guess we'll see about that.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-174	Mrs. Old President! I request a secret ballot.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-175	Mrs. Old President! There are many who talk about practice here in the speaker's chair. If I do not remember wrong, the Swedish Democrats themselves have violated the practice that they so often refer to here in the pulpit. We stand by our previous reasoning and, of course, as environmentalists, will support Kerstin Lundgren in this vote.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-177	Mrs. Old President! As I said earlier, it is an important principle of the Left Party that the Vice-Presidents represent the entire Parliament and all Swedes, no matter where we were born, the language we speak at home, the god we pray to and who we love. We will do what we can to ensure that principle applies. That is why the members of the Left Party will vote in favour of Kerstin Lundgren as third Vice-President.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-179	Mrs. Old President! It would, of course, be tempting to say a few words about the principle of proportionality and the four elections that this House has to hold today, but I think I will refrain from doing so. In the choice between the Centre Party and the Swedish Democrats, the choice is easy for the Social Democrats. Throughout history, social democracy and the Center have been able to overcome contradictions and put the interests of the country first. We have full confidence in Kerstin Lundgren as Parliament's third Vice-President and will actively vote for her.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-181	Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Before returning to a few further brief dossiers, I would like to thank you very much for your confidence in being the ninth President of the Parliament or, if you will put it that way, the thirty-ninth person elected to the office of President since the introduction of the two-chamber Reich's Day in 1866. On behalf of myself and the Vice-Presidents, I would like to express a warm and heartfelt thanks for the confidence you have shown us by electing us to be the Presidium of Presidents. The Parliament is the people's main representative, so being a member of the Swedish Parliament is to hold the finest positions of trust you can get in our country. In addition, having the confidence to lead the work of the Riksdag as Speaker or Vice-President is an opportunity and a responsibility that obliges. Thank you very much. In addition, if I may say a few words for myself, I would like to point out that I am well aware that not all Members of this House voted for me in the presidential elections. I am humbled by this, and I will make every effort to be the Speaker of the whole Parliament. Although I have not received the votes of all Members today, it is my ambition and hope that, through the way in which I exercise the office of President, I can earn the confidence of all Members. I look forward to working together with the group leaders, the parliamentary board, the officials of the Riksdag administration and each of you members to ensure that Parliament is a place where conflicting views can be broken in civilised forms and where we make decisions on laws, budgets and other issues in a constructive spirit in a way that brings our country forward. The post-election political and parliamentary situation presents us all with partly new challenges. It is easy and natural that we focus solely on the contradictions and post-election debate that prevails here and now, but it may be wise to step back and try to pull out the long lines from time to time. Members of Parliament come and go – I am sorry to say – governments come and go, parties come and go, even Speakers come and go, but Parliament and Swedish democracy remain. There have been changes before. We have faced challenges before. The headlines have been black before. But with common forces, generation after generation of Swedish political elected representatives have managed to pilot our country through crises and problems while at the same time safeguarding our democratic social order. I am convinced that this will be the case again this time. In times of minority governments, as we know, it is commonly said that the influence of the parliament increases at the expense of the government. I do not wish in any way to anticipate either the Prime Minister's vote or what may happen thereafter, but I can say that if Sweden will be governed by a minority government, this term of office too, it would suggest that the Riksdag will continue to play a central and growing role in our political system. This means that many eyes will be directed at us in this House. Let us take the responsibility that it entails together. Let us set a good example showing that it is possible to conduct a political debate that is straightforward and clear in substance and makes clear the contradictions that exist, but at the same time is characterised by good tone, objectivity and respect for the opinions of others. I am hopeful about the future of Swedish democracy and for Parliament as its main arena, but of course there are clouds of concern. First of all, violent extremism is gaining support. They could earlier be counted in the hundreds; now it is a matter of thousands. Secondly, there are foreign interests that try to undermine trust in authorities and institutions through, for example, various kinds of influence operations. Thirdly, there is a desire in several countries, including in our vicinity, to strengthen the political grip on the different parts of society, for example by undermining the independence of the judiciary and the free media. This shows, I believe, that we must work actively to protect and strengthen Swedish democracy. The President and the Riksdag as an institution should not, of course, act as a party policy but can, however, in various ways promote the interest in, anchoring and knowledge of democratic political work in general and the work of the Riksdag in particular as part of the work of safeguarding the fundamental democratic principles which underpin our society and which are expressed both in our constitutions and in the European Convention. For me as the new President, this will be a priority. However, I would like to thank you once again, warmly and sincerely, for the confidence that you have shown me and the other President's Bureau.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-190	I would also like to take this opportunity to extend warm thanks to the interim president and her Bureau and other officials here today for their hard-working and extremely good work on today's votes. Thank you very much.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-191	Then I would like to express the warm thanks of the House to Kathrin Flossing for a particularly good job as Director of Parliament. You have done extensive and much appreciated work, Mrs Kathrin; I believe that all of us who have been active as Members and in the administration are in agreement. We think we have every reason to express the deep gratitude of this House and the entire Parliament for the fine work you have done. Thank you very much.
i-5eb73b661f7bd3ad-193	I would also like to take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to Ingvar Mattson as Director of Parliament. After all, the letter is a little more formal and provides only the external framework for the preparation process and that sort of thing. However, to those in this House who do not know Ingvar Mattson, I would like to tell him that he is a true servant in Parliament's corridors. He has had managerial positions in the Office of the Constitutional Committee – just such a thing! He's been head of the Finance Committee. He went from there to become Director General of Statskontoret. Later he was recruited back to Parliament – in some sense by the Constitutional Committee, which made sure that he was elected national auditor of this House in 2017. So the only reason I saw when I heard about that name not to elect him as Director of Parliament was that the KU would then have the trouble of appointing a new Auditor of the State again. But we overcame this disappointment, which we then sat in the KU, and congratulated the group leaders and the then President on a particularly good recruitment process, which has now been formally confirmed by the group leaders and the President in a new set after the elections. Ingvar Mattson is thus a highly competent and skilled representative of a genuine civil servant's ideal. He knows the Riksdag inside and outside and will do a great job as Director of Parliament. Welcome!
