i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-1	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report New law on tobacco and similar products. I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservation of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party to be approved. The bill is a step forward for public health. It contains a number of proposals aimed at reducing the use of tobacco, reducing health gaps in society and combating illegal trade. We know the considerable damage that tobacco use and smoking cause, with a great deal of suffering for individuals and a great cost to society. Although knowledge of the harmful effects of tobacco is widespread, 19 per cent of Sweden's population use tobacco every day. Sniffing has passed smoking, and every day 11 percent of the population snips, while 9 percent smoke. About one in seven deaths in Sweden is caused by tobacco. Approximately 3,500 deaths in cardiovascular diseases are estimated annually to be due to smoking. At the same time, approximately 2,300 people are estimated to die every year due to COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and approximately 3,200 people from lung cancer. The data come from the Swedish Heart-Lung Foundation's factsheet on tobacco. Individuals pay a high price through suffering in the form of poor health and shorter life expectancy. Tobacco use is one of the main causes of unequal health. Medical care is already facing major challenges, and the cost of smoking alone is estimated to be SEK 31.5 billion. Tobacco facts say that even those who do not smoke themselves are affected by passive smoking. They consume nicotine and the approximately 7,000 chemical substances contained in smokers' cigarettes. Some fifty of them are carcinogenic or suspected of causing cancer. A few of the subjects are totally banned in Swedish working environments by the Swedish Occupational Safety and Health Authority. But that is not the case if they are produced by smokers. It is further stated that passive smoking is responsible for between 20 and 30 percent of all childhood asthma. In view of the harmfulness of tobacco, this proposal is very important from a public health point of view. If we are to cope with the health care of the future, we must invest more in prevention. An important part of the bill is the proposal to extend the smoking ban to outdoor cafés, entrances to premises and other areas to which the public has access, as well as public transport stops, sports areas and public playgrounds. This also applies to electronic cigarettes. Basically, it is a matter of non-smoking being normal. By summer many people will be able to enjoy sitting outside in the sunshine on a patio without being bothered by smoke. Madam President, I would like Another part of the bill concerns proposals on the obligation to authorise trade in tobacco and on rules on the traceability and labelling of tobacco, which is part of the fight against the illicit manufacture, handling and smuggling of tobacco products. The proposal also proposes stricter rules for online marketing. Young people are an important target group. Protecting children and young people is extremely important for the future. According to Tobacco facts, about 16,000 children start tobacco before the age of 18. Studies show a clear correlation between exposure to tobacco advertising and consumption in children. Those who see the most advertising use most tobacco. Accessibility-restricting measures therefore play a major role in preventing young people from using tobacco. Restriction of marketing is an important part, removing self-service of tobacco products and the proposal that snuff boxes must contain at least 20 portions per pack. That is good, because small cheap packaging can be more attractive to young people. It is regrettable that the bourgeois parties have not been prepared to fully support the bill and to approve the proposals for strengthening the law on the marketing of tobacco products and the introduction of a ban on self-service and smoking on patios. Our starting point is that no human being should become nicotine-dependent on any tobacco product.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-12	Madam President, I would like Tobacco smoking is one of the most important preventive risk factors for disease and premature death. Smoking increases the risk of a wide range of diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and not least COPD and lung cancer. These and other adverse health effects of tobacco smoking are well-targeted and lead in Sweden to more than 10,000 deaths and about 100 000 Swedes become ill with smoke-related diseases every year. There is therefore very strong scientific support for the public health policy justification for taking further measures to reduce smoking. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to take further steps to reduce smoking and tobacco related harm. We therefore consider it urgent to develop Swedish tobacco policy. We believe that politics and legislation should be based on research and science. It shall aim at harm minimisation, and measures such as different types of bans or other measures to reduce tobacco use and its harmful effects must be proportionate. Unfortunately, Madam President, on all these points, the proposal by the S- and the MP-government is flawed. In the bill New law on tobacco and similar products, there is, in the light of what I have said at the outset, both proposals and arguments which we Moderates welcome and proposals and arguments which we reject. For example, we welcome proposals to make playgrounds, sports areas and public transport stops non-smoking. It is important to create more smoke-free environments, especially for children and young people. However, we say no to removing the exception in the current legislation on smoking bans in the restaurant, which means that smoking is allowed in outdoor restaurants. We also say no to extending the smoking ban to non-smoking tobacco products. These are measures that we believe are not proportionate and do not have sufficient scientific basis. For us Moderates, it is important to protect property rights and the freedom to conduct a business. A ban on smoking in outdoor cafés restricts these fundamental rights without giving significant health benefits. That is why we have reservations about these proposals. Madam President, I would like Back to what's good in the bill! It is good that authorisation requirements are now being introduced for the sale of tobacco products. We want to see enhanced control and supervision to ensure that only serious operators are admitted to the market and that trade complies with the law, especially as regards the non-sale of tobacco to minors. A permit requirement requested the Moderates and other alliance parties in an announcement to the government already in 2014, and we naturally welcome the fact that the Red-Green parties are now behind this. It is also, of course, a good thing that we are now fully implementing the requirements of the Tobacco Directive on traceability and labelling. Good rules and systems for tracking and labelling are important tools for reducing illicit trade in tobacco products. Combating illegal trade is important, first and foremost, for public health reasons, but also for combating organised crime and its sources of income. With reduced illegal trade, tax revenues are also increasing, which is welcome and much needed. Madam President, I would like However, the proposal also contains a whole series of proposals which we Moderates reject. Some I've already mentioned. On the part of the Moderates, we object to the government's failure to take into account clearly the various health effects of products in the bill. Furthermore, we think it is serious that the overall objective of reducing tobacco consumption has clearly been overridden by the objective of reducing tobacco-related harm. Saving lives and reducing tobacco-related damage is the main focus of Moderates. It follows that we prioritise efforts to reduce smoking and that we protect the Swedish snuff. Snus is certainly not a health product but nevertheless appears as an important explanation for why Sweden has significantly fewer smokers than the EU average. Sweden has the EU's lowest tobacco-related mortality rate. In 24 of the other 27 Member States, tobacco-related mortality rates are more than twice as high as in Sweden. One explanation for why Sweden has so few smokers in relative terms and so low tobacco-related mortality is snus. Many snus instead of smoking. Given that snus seems to play an important role in reducing smoking and tobacco-related harm, it is wrong in politics to equate snus with smoking tobacco and to regulate snus in various ways. Smoking is dangerous, which justifies strict and strict legislation, but that snus is hardly. Our Swedish experience is, on the contrary, that the snuff has actually saved lives and reduced the tobacco-related damage. It is remarkable that S, MP and V seem to turn a blind eye to this. Fortunately, however, Madam President, the reason for this has prevailed in committee. The committee rejects the government's proposal to ban self-service. It should continue to be possible for snusers to pick and select their box with snus. The fact that we have succeeded in stopping this proposal also means that many traders, especially with small shops in rural areas, will be spared high costs of rebuilding their shops. The committee also says no to completely ban marketing inside sales outlets. It should still be possible, we mean, in a store, for example, to promote a new kind of snuff. As far as online shopping is concerned, the red-greens want to go much further and ban traders from showing pictures of their products. An attempt is being made to break the bones of online commerce by discriminating against it in legislation. The proposal means that physical stores, unlike online stores, should be allowed to expose their products. However, an online store can apply for a so-called release certificate, which gives a website protection under the Freedom of Expression Act. But this is an inconspicuous and uncertain way of getting permission to do something as elementary as showing pictures of the various snus varieties that you have for sale. That is why, based on the joint motion by the Moderates and Centers, a majority of committees is calling for the government to come back this spring with a bill on how online retailers can be given the opportunity to show pictures of their products without having to trouble with the issue certificate. Madam President, I would like If tobacco policy is to be credible, it must be based on facts and measures must be reasonable. This is what the Moderates stand for. We say 'yes' to effective measures to reduce smoking, but we say 'no' to tough rules and bans on snuff. That is why, Madam President, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 14, which is about not regulating the number of florills in a snuff box.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-25	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg from the Moderates talks about how dangerous tobacco smoking is and how it is scientifically proven. Nevertheless, the Moderates have chosen to reject the proposal to ban smoking in outdoor cafés. Approximately 91 per cent of Swedes do not smoke at all. Despite all the reports on the dangers to health of passive smoking, which is also scientifically proven, you are voting against. You say no, despite the fact that children and young people are also on outdoor cafés. You say no at the expense of public health and at the expense of children and young people. Why?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-26	Madam President, I would like A science-based policy has to be pursued in terms of problem formulation. We agree that smoking is a major problem. There, the scientific basis is enormous. There is no doubt whatsoever that smoking is a huge public health problem. The next step is to put forward proposals for measures supported by science because they are effective and proportionate. It does not have the proposal to which Mr Emilsson refers, I and the Moderates mean. As in all politics, different interests and different principles stand against each other. It is important to reduce the risk of exposure to passive smoking. But it is also important to respect private property rights. As a consumer, I have a free choice to go to an outdoor restaurant where smoking is allowed or not. On the other hand, I think it is reasonable for us to protect our children from exposure to passive smoking in a playground. Politics must set limits on how far into private business and how far into private life it should go. Therefore, the Moderates say halt when it comes to removing the exception that outdoor cafés have. This exception is not a major public health problem. There is no strong support in investigations or anything else to remove it. This government is driven in tobacco policy by a moralism which, unfortunately, is not very effective. One may be opposed to tobacco, but I think that the proposals should be based on solid evidence, which in this case is lacking. I would like to ask Mr Emilsson what is the most important thing for the Social Democrats. Is it to reduce the total use of snuff or is it to reduce the damage?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-31	Madam President, I would like I think the most closely resembles bad excuses from Moderate Johan Hultberg. You say that we do not take into account the health effects. Nevertheless, Johan Hultberg himself states that there is scientific support not only for the harmfulness of smoking but also for tobacco. The most effective of preventive purposes is not to use tobacco at all. You say no to the proposal to tighten up the rules on marketing. Despite all the reports of damage, you turn a blind eye to it. What our young people need is a completely tobacco-free environment. You in the Moderates are more concerned about the tobacco industry than about the health of children and young people. Why?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-33	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is wonderful to have the spontaneous contributions to the debate! That wasn't exactly an answer to my question. Emilsson is stuck to his points in advance which do not correspond to what I said in my speech. I put a specific question to Mr Emilsson whether the Social Democrats think it is most important to reduce the total use of tobacco or reduce the damage. I didn't get an answer to that question. I guess that's because you close your eyes to the fact that snus is less dangerous than smoking tobacco. If we are to pursue a serious policy, we must make a distinction in legislation and in politics between the dangers of the various tobacco products. The Social Democrats and the government do not. It is a serious mistake in my opinion and in the opinion of the Moderates. What I said is that we fully agree that smoking and tobacco are harmful to health, and smoking is extremely much. However, we do not agree that it gives free expression to any form of action. There must be a balance between the benefits of public health policy and the restriction of free enterprise in this case. As a consumer, I again have a free choice to choose whether or not to go to an outdoor restaurant where smoking is allowed or not. I don't like smoking. I don't like smoking. Therefore, I would like to choose an outdoor restaurant that does not allow smoking. Another colleague or friend may have a different premise. It's a good thing you can choose. I, as an individual and Mr Emilsson as an individual, also have a personal responsibility for which we cannot duck. We need to keep a balance between how far political power should go when it comes to regulating free enterprise and our privacy. We think that this limit is being exceeded by removing the exemption for smoking in outdoor restaurants.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-38	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate the controversial and, after lengthy work, produced the bill New law on tobacco and similar products. We broadly support the Government's proposal because we believe that the proposal is fundamentally good and important as it seeks a smoke-free society. Public health is something we invest in, and we believe that there are many good proposals in the bill. In Sweden, no one involuntarily has to be exposed to passive smoking, especially children. They are rarely able to choose their own environment. Children are particularly sensitive to tobacco smoke as it can, among other things, exacerbate children's asthma and cause allergy. Many studies show that passive smoking has largely the same health risks as active smoking. In asthmatics, allergy sufferers and hypersensitive people, it is often associated with acute problems. As a matter of principle, we are opposed to excessive detail control, but we understand that something needs to be done. We agree with some of the consultative bodies' criticisms of how certain proposals can be put into practice. A smoking ban in a public place must meet certain requirements for precision in order to avoid any confusion. In restaurants it is possible, under the current regulations, to set aside specific parts of the catering environment for smoking. There are special requirements for the design and ventilation of smoking rooms in restaurant premises, and the Government does not intend to change the current regulatory framework. However, we believe that it should also be possible to allow smoking in specific parts of the outdoor seating area if a designated place is set aside that meets the same design and ventilation requirements as the current regulations for the indoor environment. These secluded places may only form a minor part of the outdoor seating area and are intended to be used only for smoking. For us, it is important that serving staff are not exposed to passive smoking. We can also see that similar smoking rooms can be placed on, for example, train platforms, entrances, etc. or where there is a need. With our proposal, we take into account non-smokers, serving staff and smokers. Madam President, I would like Snus is a tobacco product that is consistently less harmful to health than cigarettes. Both Scandinavian and American studies show that many smokers use smokeless tobacco as a method of quitting smoking. Experience from Sweden shows that the presence of snus contributes to fewer people starting to smoke, but also to many quit smoking and start snusting instead. Of course, it is best to give up tobacco altogether. Swedish men have a low level of tobacco-related diseases although total tobacco consumption is comparable to that in other countries. Non-smoking tobacco is an alternative to cigarettes and other smoking products, and above all there is no problem of passive smoking. The aim should be primarily to reduce the negative consequences of tobacco use. We therefore believe that greater account should be taken of the snus, that the government's proposal should therefore not include snus and that the current rules on snus should be maintained. We also want to investigate a possible exemption for electronic cigarettes and refill containers. The safety of these products in terms of life and health is not at all proportionate to the harmful effects of tobacco smoking. We share the investigation's view that the Swedish Public Health Agency should maintain a national register for supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the application of the law. This would be a major step forward in improving the efficiency of supervision. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservations 1 and 9.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-53	Madam President, I would like Tobacco smoking is one of the biggest threats to people's lives and health in Sweden as well as worldwide. That is why the World Health Organisation, the WHO, has adopted a convention in which Member States undertake to work to eliminate smoking. Although smoking has decreased in Sweden over the past few decades, around one in four high school students and just over one in ten people daily still smokes, despite the known risks of increased morbidity and mortality. It is also well known that most people who start smoking do so in their teens. The four major smoking - related diseases of lung cancer, COPD, stroke and heart attack accounted for some 8,000 smoke - caused deaths a year. In addition, some 4,000 smokers died in about forty other diseases linked to smoking. More diseases have also been found to be related to smoking. Of those cared for in hospitals, nearly 100,000 have become ill because of smoking. Of these, about 38,000 fell into the four major smoke - related diseases, of which about 20,000 in COPD. Approximately as many people have also been treated for pneumonia caused by smoking. Tobacco smoke can be harmful to health both in the open air and indoors. Everything depends on the concentration of dangerous particles and the duration of exposure. As a result, many of the countries that have made the most progress with non-smoking indoor facilities in recent years have also begun to introduce non-smoking in certain outdoor environments. America has some of the toughest smoking laws. There are many outdoor environments non-smoking. In most states, the outdoor cafés are also non-smoking. Canada has banned smoking from bus courses and platformers. All of this is also in line with what the WHO strongly recommends. This is because they want to protect people from the health risks of passive smoking. I sometimes hear that the passive smoking that a child or an adult is exposed to in a bus course or on a platform cannot be harmful to health. That's wrong. For a child with asthma or any other chronic respiratory infection, exposure to cigarette smoke may involve acute breathing difficulties. The consequences of smoking are the worst for the smoker himself, but they are also difficult for the smoker who, against his will, is exposed to smoke. The consequences for Sweden are also great. According to a study from the Institute for Health and Medical Economics, smoking costs the community over SEK 31 billion each year. This is more than the cost for all doctors and nurses throughout the Swedish primary care together. The disease and suffering suffered by the individual is, together with the cost to the taxpayer, the reason why the Center Party has taken a stand for the WHO Tobacco Convention to become a reality in Sweden. The report that Parliament will decide on tomorrow means that Sweden is taking several important steps forward. We will have a licensing obligation for those who sell tobacco, which will make it easier to intervene against those who illegally sell tobacco to young people. A number of public places, such as platforms, bus courses, areas in front of entrances to public premises, playgrounds and sports grounds, become non-smoking. Children with asthma get the right to stand in the bus-cut when it rains, and anyone who wants to smoke can use their umbrella – not the other way around, as today. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has three reservations in the report. The sharpest tool, legislation, does not always have to be used to achieve a goal. For example, we do not think that teams should have to be used for outdoor terraces to become non-smoking. More and more restaurant owners today choose to have non-smoking outdoor cafés because that is often what the guests are asking for. These developments need to be encouraged, but there is no need to legislate on them. We do not think there is scientific support for extending the smoking ban to herbal products for smoking and e-cigarettes. Nor do we think that the state should decide how big the snuff packaging should be. Snus cannot be equated with tobacco smoking in terms of hazard, and this should be reflected in the Tobacco Act. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report, apart from paragraph 7, in which I support the Centre Party's reservation.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-66	Madam President, I would like I would like to pay tribute to Gabriel Wikström, the former minister, who started work on the whole tobacco bill, but also to Annika Strandhäll, who completed the work. I've been working on public health issues pretty much all my life. It concerns alcohol, drugs and sex and cohabitation issues. I have had an important principle in this work: not to open the door to lobbyists from either the alcohol industry or the tobacco industry. During the journey with the bill, I have been diligently courted by various lobbyists from the tobacco area, and I am sure you have also been. But I have chosen instead to listen to the doctors and researchers who are working on the issue. I have also chosen to listen to the patients who suffer from lung cancer, for example. Last year I met a man who said: Make sure to implement the whole bill! It was extremely important for him and for the patient group he had behind him. If he's watching and listening right now, I can tell him I did my best. I represent the public health issue. I do not represent the tobacco industry when we talk about tobacco under the concept of public health policy. Every year, 7 million people in the world die from tobacco. 12 000 deaths per year in Sweden can be linked to a premature death due to smoking. On average, each smoker loses more than ten years of his life. Of course, reducing smoking is a priority. Now we get smoke-free environments on outdoor terraces. At least that is what I thought, but I do not know if the Swedish Democrats support any other proposal. I now see in this House that you did not, so we thank you for that! So there will be a ban on smoking in outdoor restaurants, Madam President. We think that is insanely good for all the staff who work there and who are bothered by the smoke. It will be non-smoking outside entrances to public premises. There is no smoking throughout public transport, and this applies to bus stops and even playgrounds. It is very good, especially for children but also adults who have asthma, for example. I can assure you of that. However, there is another issue that is ticking on. This concerns the view on the marketing of cigarettes and snuff, Madam President. For the tobacco industry, children and young people are an important target group. They're the ones you're supposed to be trying to get on the tobacco train. Limiting accessibility is a matter of course for prevention. It is also important to limit the marketing of both cigarettes and other tobacco. The bourgeois majority has hand in hand with the Swedish Democrats – as so often – have chosen a completely different path from that of the original bill. The committee's proposal is that the ban on marketing should not be tightened up. This is not just about snuff, but also about cigarettes. The proposal to ban the self-service of tobacco products is also rejected. The committee, i.e. the bourgeois majority and the Swedish Democrats, also proposes an announcement on, among other things, the promotion of tobacco products on the Internet. It's extremely important to make sure it's still there, isn't it? This is an industry-friendly proposal from the Center Party, the Liberals, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats that really meet the market. But it is not a long-term proposal that benefits public health. Our starting point is that no human being should become nicotine-dependent, regardless of the type of product. Of course, those who are addicted to nicotine by tobacco products other than cigarettes do not receive at all the same dangerous damage as cigarettes. But it's still an addiction that you get stuck in. The committee, that is to say, in this case the Centre Party, the Moderates, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, will vote because cigarettes also continue to be marketed – because it became like this now. Not only was the snuff, but so were the cigarettes. In large surveys in countries that have gone ahead of us, such as Australia and the United States, it turns out that the marketing of tobacco products has a very large impact on young people and on children. The conclusion is that children who frequently see tobacco products in shops are at significantly higher risk of smoking testing and higher risk of starting smoking regularly than those who are less frequently exposed to tobacco signs. We in the Left would have liked to have gone one more step. We would have liked to have introduced a ban on exposure to tobacco products. Several countries have already introduced this type of exposure regime. This includes our Nordic neighbours, Iceland – who were the first on the ground with the question – as well as Norway and Finland. This includes Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom, France, Croatia, New Zealand and Australia. So this is not an extreme proposal from the party that you call just extreme. Madam President, I would like Experience from these countries shows that the laws work exactly as intended. Young people smoke less, and the law makes it easier for those who try to quit tobacco. This is about the hidden sale of tobacco products. This means that you as a customer may ask if the tobacco is in place. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4, Madam President. The snuggle industry is, of course, cheering today. Snus has here presented almost as a health product of you. But snus contains 3,000 different substances that are harmful to health, and 28 of them are carcinogenic. There is absolutely no comparison between snuff and smoking. It goes without saying because smoking has a much greater effect on health than snus. However, the effects and health risks of snus should be compared to those who do not use tobacco at all. That's the point. One can look at the question from the research side, and we may have listened to various researchers. The research shows that fatal myocardial infarction, stroke, oral mucosal burning, exposed dental necks and type 2 diabetes are major risk factors for those who use five doso r per week. That's what the research says. There is absolutely no scientific support for recommending snus as a smoking cessation method. There are four published scientific studies in the field of smoking cessation with snus, and there is nothing to show that snus can be classified as a smoking cessation method. This can also be seen in the National Board of Health and Welfare's national guidelines for disease prevention methods. Either you listen to the research and believe in the National Board of Health and Welfare, or you think: Oh, it's probably Snuskommiss ionen who is right anyway in the end. Children should certainly not be exposed to the tobacco industry's marketing. That is precisely why it is important to also focus, as I have said before, on the marketing of tobacco products. I am in favour of reservation 4 and, of course, I support the joint reservation. I call for all other motions to be rejected on this matter.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your engaging post! It is good that there are many of us who have a broad commitment to this, but it is also clear that we have different starting points for policy. I think that in some sense it was also contradictory positions that Karin Rågsjö expressed here. On the one hand, Karin Rågsjö said that there is absolutely a big difference between the dangers of different tobacco products, on the other hand Karin Rågsjö represents a policy that lumps all tobacco together and does not take into account that different products have different degrees of hazard. Karin Rågsjö also spoke about the experience from other countries. How about looking at the experiences of our own country? After all, Sweden is the country in the EU that has the absolute lowest tobacco-related mortality rate and was the first to meet the WHO target of a maximum of 20% for smokers. We have seen a very clear link between the proportion of smokers and the proportion of snusters. What conclusions does Karin Rågsjö draw? Is she completely blind to the fact that we have significantly fewer smokers in Sweden because we have significantly more snusers?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-90	Madam President, I would like I think Johan Hultberg is out cycling. For years Sweden has had a rather sharp public health policy aimed at smoking. Sweden is unique in this area in Europe. We have been super good, and that is not the profit of snuff, but it is thanks to the laws we have and the work we have directed at, for example, children and young people, on which we have been relatively agreed. I think you're on a rather dangerous journey. Now you want to make a difference between snuff and smoking in general. We know that the EU has a completely different view of the snuff and that it should be in parity with cigarettes. It's pretty important. What you are doing now is that you can get Europe going. This can end with looking at this with Sweden and the snus and saying: Wow, now you have done something here, and it was not so good. Vips, the whole snuggle industry can be hacking teeth. What do I know? But you've begun that journey and we haven't. This is a public health issue. Who do you listen to then, says Johan Hultberg? Do you listen to doctors who work with cancer? Are patients' organisations being listened to? Or do you answer when the Snus Commission calls and then sees them? We have a slightly different approach to these products. Johan Hultberg clearly said that it was the business sector that was taken into account in this regard. I do not take that into account when it comes to public health issues. I take my back on public health, not on the tobacco industry.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-94	Madam President, I would like I shall be brutally honest and say that I think this debate is daunting. There's a huge difference between talking about snuff and talking about smoking tobacco. We must manage to actually have a serious debate where we listen to research. Research is extremely clear about the dangers of smoking both for the individual and for the passive victim. There is no equivalent research base for snusping. It has not been proved that someone has died of snuff. I was crystal clear in my speech that snuff is not a health product, but it is obvious, if you look at the Swedish example, that snuff has actually helped many people to stop smoking. We have the lowest number of tobacco-related injuries in Europe. It is not because we are radically lower in tobacco use in Sweden than in other countries, but because our tobacco use looks different: more snus and fewer smokes. You can, of course, moralize that people are sniffing. I share the view that it would be best if no one used tobacco. But I choose every day of the week that people put a thing under their lip instead of lighting a cigarette because we know that smoking leads to so much damage. I am therefore strongly opposed to the proposals which the Left Party supports and is pushing for detailed regulation of snuff. Madam President, I would like We also have very clear ideological differences in our views of privacy and free enterprise. Karin Rågsjö said here that she does not take into account the private business community. No, I understand that. She is a left-wing party, and it is stated in the party programme that they should abolish capitalism and therefore liberal democracy, one might say. I understand that. According to me and the Moderates, we should have effective measures to reduce smoking, but we should not regulate snuff in detail, because it does not have support in science, Karin Rågsjö.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-97	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg draws a few different gears from this. When it comes to how we are dealing with smoking in Sweden, it has to do with a long tradition of persistent public health work. I'd say so. Sweden is far ahead of countries in the rest of Europe, not in the Nordic countries, but in southern Europe, for example. There people have now stopped smoking. I guess they don't do a lot of snus, as far as I know. You have taken your facts, Johan Hultberg, from the tobacco industry and the Snus Commission and all what it is called. I have taken my facts from the doctors, professors and patient groups involved in the whole issue of tobacco. Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg's problem in this is that you are now ensuring that the marketing of cigarettes and snuff is put on an equal footing. Now, instead of having clear guidelines, you will go ahead with this, you will draw a line and understand that there is a very high risk that children and young people who are exposed to advertising, marketing, on this issue start smoking and perhaps also snus. You may see the snuff as a health product – it sounds almost like it – but the best thing is to smoke or snus as few as possible. Here we have different entrances, and they are ideological. We've been listening to completely different scientists, I think.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-101	Madam President, I would like Let us note that tobacco is harmful to health in whatever form it is in, and therefore its use needs to be regulated. There is plenty of scientific evidence on the dangers of smoking. In addition to the purely human suffering of various diseases, smoking, as has been said in this House before, also leads to major social costs. Of course, we should make great efforts to reduce smoking and, above all, invest heavily in the growing race never starting when we know how difficult it is to quit. Madam President, I would like Having said that, however, it is worrying that the legislation does not take account of the fact that different tobacco products differ in danger. For example, there is a large difference in risk between smoking tobacco or snuff and chewing tobacco. Smoking tobacco causes the premature death of many, while snus and chewing tobacco present significantly less or at least less risks. This should be clearly stated in the legislation, which it does not do today. If we were to play with the idea that the rest of Europe and the EU would have the same distribution between smoking and the use of snus and chewing tobacco as Sweden has, the number of tobacco-related deaths would be significantly lower than today. For public health, greater use of snus and chewing tobacco instead of smoking would be a major step forward. Madam President, I would like The absolute best thing for public health is, of course, that nobody uses tobacco products at all. Snus and chewing tobacco are neither beneficial nor harmless, but they have far fewer backs than smoking tobacco. This difference in danger between tobacco use should be made clearer in the legislation. It is a work that a future government should take on. Madam President, I would like The proposal to supplement the Tobacco Act is due to the EU's request from Member States for tobacco products to be labelled and thus traceable. That is great, and it is being met in an excellent way in the current proposal. However, the government has chosen to make a more radical change to the Tobacco Act than the EU requires. We want to ban smoking in public places, including outdoor restaurants. It is not difficult to understand how the government has thought that smoking, even passive smoking, is a problem for many. When the ban on smoking indoors in restaurants was implemented, KD was for it. It was obvious that non-smokers who were in restaurants could not help but become passive smokers. That, of course, was not acceptable. When it comes to outdoor environments, the situation is different. The risk of exposure to passive smoking is significantly less than indoors. The Christian Democrats believe that it is better to extend the possibility of using the local order charter to make certain places smoke-free than to use total legislation. Similarly, we believe that it should be the local restaurant owner who should decide whether his or her outdoor seating should be non-smoking or whether parts of it should be. Everything that we, each and every one of us, may dislike is not suitable for being banned through legislation. There is a clear risk that legislation will not be able to be enforced and that citizens' confidence in the law will then be reduced: we must not smoke here. Still, people smoke here. Nothing's happening. Thus, the law becomes ineffective. If, instead, decisions are taken at local level in accordance with the Charter of Order, as we Christian Democrats want, it becomes much clearer and more place- and situation-bound. It can then also gain greater acceptance from the population. Madam President, I would like As far as smoking tobacco is concerned, we Christian Democrats want there to be a ban on exposure at retail outlets. Given the proven effect of the ban on exposure in terms of reducing smoking, not least by reducing the temptation for children and young people to start using cigarettes, and to make it easier for those who try to quit smoking, we believe that a ban on exposure to cigarettes should be introduced. In our opinion, each individual's free choice to continue buying cigarettes will not be restricted because the products will also be available to those asking for them with a ban on exposure. We therefore want the government to eventually promote a ban on smoking tobacco exposure. Madam President, I would like The government's proposal for a new Tobacco Act contains a number of directly bad proposals, which a majority of the members of the Social Affairs Committee fortunately want to change. It concerns the promotion of snuff and self-service of snuff. With regard to these two points, the committee's majority proposal is that the government's proposal should be deleted and that we retain the current legislative text. The committee also proposes an announcement to the government that the online marketing of tobacco products should be equated with the marketing of tobacco products at other points of sale. Madam President, I would like We in the Christian Democrats are behind all our reservations, but for time-winning we are in favour of only reservation 5, the ban on exposure to tobacco products.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-115	Madam President, I would like I have some questions for you, Michael Anefur, including smoking in outdoor restaurants. You're saying that no one is particularly disturbed by it and so on. Have you talked to the hotel and r estaurant union about what they think about it? Do they love smoking? Have you thought about the fact that there are also families with children in the outdoor restaurants? Children can be very sensitive to smoke. Madam President, I would like I think that Michael Anefur has a slightly inconspicuous attitude towards smoking in outdoor restaurants, which I do not quite understand. This is also normative, Madam President. In other countries this has been tried. Maybe Michael Anefur should take a drive to New York to see how it works. It works just fine, as far as I know. Moreover, I do not think that would create problems for restaurant owners, precisely because it is normative. Everyone knows the drill. I know it was a terrible life to ban smoking inside the restaurants. It went perfectly well. Is it not in this way that, in the area of public health, we should try to ensure that it is of particular benefit to public health and that children and others who are sensitive to tobacco smoke are spared it? Madam President, I would like These were my questions about outdoor cafés.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-120	Madam President, I would like You can turn and turn this question around, which Karin Rågsjö is happy to do. But I think the dividing line between Karin Rågsjö and me is that I trust that people can take their own responsibility. And I trust that market forces will work. When people want smoke-free environments, they will be offered it. However, we should be careful to go all the way to the greatest and most powerful instrument we have: to legislate. I assume that the Left Party and the Christian Democrats agreed last time, when we talked about the indoor environment. Then no one could get away if you wanted to go to a restaurant. Outside, it's a whole different thing. I would like to visit outdoor restaurants that are non-smoking. There's a growing number of them. I also believe that the vast majority will be non-smoking in the future. However, I do not believe in the central determination of what each individual trader should or should not do or that we completely remove the alternatives so that everyone should rely on us in Parliament knowing best about everything every time and all the time. It is certainly in this way that some countries have anti-smoking legislation in outdoor restaurants. There are also many who do not. I think we can solve this without going down the legislative path.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-124	Madam President, I would like Michael Anefur, we can have this in a long time. But I believe that such legislation, which we can decide on tomorrow, would have a very normative force. There is also a great deal of support in research, with doctors and so on. I think it's good to listen to them. Then, Madam President, I would like to ask you a question. Michael Anefur and others have made sure that the rules for the marketing of cigarette and snuff continue to apply; that is obvious. Is that not a problem now that you are opposed to the proposal for marketing? Madam President, I would like Michael Anefur has also agreed that you should look a little different at snus and cigarettes. I agree with you that cigarettes are far more dangerous. But there are two issues that the EU examines very carefully when it comes to Sweden, and that is alcohol, Systembolaget, and snuff and cigarettes. Does not the KD think it would be a problem if you let this through and if the EU got a little more alert and brisker and wanted to look at the snuff. Suddenly the snus becomes a huge problem, as if you have created, and the snus disappears. This legislation may sound like buying snus of shady types at Mariatorget. That's not really the case. You can still buy snus anywhere. This is simply about setting limits for the market. The market is quite hungry to heel its goods.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-128	Madam President, I would like Of course, we can think very much. Almost everyone can agree that the best thing would have been if no one had smoked and no one had snuffed. So far, we have not heard anyone say that we should legislate and say that nobody can do anything. We're in a different position. I am so insolent that I say that Europe is wrong – I have no problem saying that. Karin Rågsjö is happy to highlight the EU and says that the EU will probably react to this and that we are now doing something new. Actually, that's not true. It's nothing new at all. It is exactly the same legislation after the decision tomorrow as it is today. We're not making up anything new. We'll leave the old marketing behind. So, as far as I understand it, it is so far accepted by the European Union. That's gonna be a fight against something that actually doesn't exist in reality. It is a bit sad that we should devote time in the Chamber to this.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-131	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we in the Liberals naturally support all our reservations in this report, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 11 under paragraph 9. Many speakers this afternoon have said that smoking and tobacco use are perhaps the single biggest cause of illness and premature death worldwide, and that is true. That's what it looks like. In Sweden, approximately 12 000 people die every year from smoking and smoking-related diseases. But it must also be understood that hardly any person starts smoking in adulthood. If we are to work preventively, make sure to reduce the harmful effects and eventually eliminate them, it is important to put all the problems into preventing smoking among young people. Therefore, it should be very high standards for those who sell tobacco to everything for young people. They should, of course, lose their permission and be punished for it. There we have strong and good legislation, but perhaps we should put in better battles to follow up the legislation and ensure that it is actually accompanied. That way we can get a greater deal through prevention than we are doing today. It is important to prevent smoking through work at school but also in, for example, maternal and paediatric health care – this is to reduce smoking and snusping among parents. We also know that the damage is passed on. Adult people, on the other hand, have a freedom to make, according to my opinion, bad life choices. Each makes its own choices based on its own conditions. Madam President, I would like In alcohol legislation, there are rules that state that local regulations are entitled to prohibit the consumption of alcohol in geographical areas in a municipality and in places or in contexts where it is considered appropriate and where the harm and inconveniences are particularly great. We also want to implement this regulatory framework on smoking. That is why, Madam President, we are opposed to a general parliamentary decision banning smoking in certain places, in outdoor restaurants, in platforms, at bus stops and so on. In many of these places it is absolutely right to have a ban, of course. But we cannot take general decisions in this House that make it exactly the same throughout our elongated country. Our elongated country is not the same. The conditions for two different platforms are so incredibly large depending on where the platform is located and how frequented it is. That is why the local community must be allowed to decide on the possibility of banning smoking. It is fundamental and important, we Liberals think. We are in favour of the smoking ban inside, as it stands today. We are in favour of smoking bans that relieve people of exposure to passive smoking because they do not want or cannot tolerate exposure. But banning smoking generally outdoors so that one size fits all – one size fit all – is not reasonable. That is why we want the possibility of a local smoking ban instead. That is why I would like to support our reservation on the subject. Then I come to the issue of retailing, exposure and the possibility of selling tobacco products. Here, Madam President, we also differ, and here there is a dividing line. It is important that consumers can be informed of where, when and what type of goods they can buy. We would prefer to distinguish between smoking tobacco and snuff. According to the government, this is not entirely possible at this stage, so we naturally want to see further work on this. But the important thing is that we enable adults to make free choices. Neither our freedom to conduct a business nor the consumer's ability to exercise his right to buy tobacco products should be restricted. On the other hand, it should be preventive work that protects the same consumers against harmful effects. That is why we are also in favour of clear content declarations and clear declarations of harmful effects. This is always a balance between individual freedom and public health work. I, like the previous speaker, believe that it is the individual who can best determine his or her own health.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-142	Madam President, I would like In their reservation, the Liberals say: Today more people die from diseases caused by passive smoking than die from traffic. Nevertheless, you choose to say no to smoking in outdoor restaurants. How can you choose to say no when you talk about how dangerous smoking is? Where did the children's and young people's right to a smoke-free environment go? You also write that bans must be weighed against restrictions on the individual's life. Whose life? Where did the reduction go for the 91 percent who are not smokers? Where did the restriction go for children, for young people, for asthmatics, who have a very difficult time where smoking is allowed? Why do you choose to support smoking even though you yourself point out how dangerous it is?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-144	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for the questions! If you listened to the speech I just made, you would hear that I pressed the local conditions in almost every sentence. We are not against protecting children, asthmatics or other groups that are now unable to stay in all environments. This, of course, is also part of freedom. The freedom of an individual must never restrict the freedom of another. That's when it gets problematic. However, it is not here in Parliament that we can generally say that it should look exactly the same in all places and in all parts of the country. Local conditions are extremely different. I made a comparison with the alcohol bans around the municipalities. It looks very different when it comes to town, town or municipality. That is why the limits have been laid very different, and the levels of decisions and prohibitions are very different. I think that's good. I have nothing against the bans that restrict the freedom of other people – they are good – but they must be anchored locally. That is why we are writing as we do and calling for the draft decisions to be approved.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-147	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson said in his speech that almost no one starts smoking as an adult. So it must be something that makes children and young people start smoking, and that is marketing. Marketing is the most important part for producers to be able to market their products. It is therefore important to restrict marketing. It also addresses young people. Why are you opposed to the proposal to restrict marketing?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-149	Madam President, I would like It's about the balance line, Lena Emilsson. That's why we're against this part. The reason why many young people, and unfortunately young girls in particular, start smoking, is much more complicated than just being about marketing and advertising. Many more efforts are needed than just access to marketing and advertising. Of course, there should be no advertising aimed at children and young people. We fully agree on that. Nor, however, can we impose completely unreasonable restrictions on the business community so that companies cannot advertise their products. Again, we can compare with the conditions for alcohol advertising. Furthermore, in our country there are problems with food-related diseases when young people eat far too little. Does Lena Emilsson think that there is too much advertising about not eating? You can't make those quick, simple comparisons where one gives the other. We are dealing here with much more complex links. However, we agree that it is a major problem for young people to start smoking. We also agree that there should be proper prevention and work to prevent this so that we eventually reduce the number of smoke-related diseases among the entire population.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-154	Madam President, I would like Let me get straight to the point about what the matter is about, namely human health and ultimately their lives. An estimated 12 000 people die every year in Sweden due to smoking. Imagine all these destinies and all these relatives who lost someone they love! This case is not least about them. More than every other person who smokes dies from his cigarettes, and on average every smoker loses more than ten years of his life. Snus also affects human health. There is a link between snus and type 2 diabetes, cancer of the pancreas, esophagus and oral cavity and an increased risk of death after a heart attack or stroke. Even people who do not even use tobacco are affected. Passive smoking is estimated to cause five to ten cases of lung cancer each year and 400 cases of cardiovascular disease. In addition to the fact that tobacco industry products are about people's lives and health, tobacco costs society a lot of money. Smoking alone is estimated to cost Sweden's taxpayers 31.5 billion SEK per year. Of course, health care is under pressure here. That is why, Madam President, the issue we are going to decide on is extremely important, because the proposals are about reducing tobacco use in Sweden. I would like to highlight three important steps forward that the new law on tobacco and similar products entails. Firstly, we ban smoking in outdoor restaurants and several public places, such as playgrounds, sports grounds, bus stops and train platforms. The smoking ban on indoor servings was a success. Now is the time to take the next step. Secondly, in the future tobacco will only be sold by the authorised person, and tobacco packaging will be provided with a unique identifier and a security label. It is good to prevent organised crime from making money from illegal tobacco and to protect honest traders. Thirdly, snus boxes must contain at least 20 portions. This is important because small, cheap packaging can be more attractive not least for young people, who are generally more price sensitive. We do not want to involve young people in a nicotine addiction. The vast majority of tobacco users start using tobacco before they are 18 years old. It is therefore extremely important to protect children and young people. Every child has a right to good health, and if we manage to keep children and young people away from tobacco, the chances are very great that they will not ever become addicted. In addition to these proposals, we would also need to tighten up the legislation on marketing and self-service inside the shops. We will not, however, do so because the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are voting down this tightening up. It's incredibly sad. Removing self-service and making it more difficult for tobacco companies to advertise their dangerous products reduces tobacco use. That really goes without saying. There is not a company in the world that would spend money on marketing if it did not produce results. I find it very difficult, Madam President, to understand why we should not make it more difficult for tobacco companies to make money by destroying people's health. Let me be very clear! This is about the tobacco companies, not the individual. Let adults do what they want! This is not a law about banning people from smoking or snusping. Just go to the store and shop. No, this is about making it more difficult for the tobacco industry to involve children and young people in addiction. Why do the bourgeois and Swedish democrats want to vote down these proposals? I don't understand why, and I think there's more people than me who don't understand. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the steps that we parties are taking today, above the block limit, to reduce tobacco use and protect people's lives and health are very encouraging. It is an extremely important decision, and it is not taken a day too soon. I support the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-167	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor almost most in order to try to clear up some misunderstandings in the debate. It's almost like we're letting the marketing go. It sounded almost like that when you listened to Åsa Lindhagen and earlier to Karin Rågsjö. But that's not the case. We have very strict legislation that prohibits the marketing of tobacco. Then there is a small, limited exception that allows marketing inside a point of sale, provided that the marketing is not outreach, that it is not intrusive and that it does not encourage the use of tobacco. It is therefore the legislation that the Moderates and the other alliance parties – SD also agrees with it – want to retain. We also believe that it is reasonable that it is possible to promote the less harmful alternatives to tobacco smoking, which takes about 12 000 lives in Sweden. So we think it is a good thing that those who are already stuck in a nicotine addiction, who are already stuck in a dependence on cigarettes or other smoking tobacco, are given the opportunity to switch to a less harmful product. Of course, we can dream of tobacco-free society, but we are quite far from it. That is why we think it is wrong to make the snuff more difficult, to regulate the snuff in detail, and to give the impression that a ban on smoking in outdoor restaurants would prevent young people from starting to snuff or smoke. We have an individual responsibility. We think you have to take it, even as a parent. I have a responsibility if I put my children in an outdoor restaurant where there are smokes for full cups. I take that responsibility, and I expect more parents to do it. I ask Åsa Lindhagen the same question that I have made to the others here. What is the most important thing for the Green Party – to reduce the total number of people who use tobacco or to reduce tobacco-related damage?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-173	Madam President, I would like We are going to reduce the damage and deaths, and we are doing so by reducing the use of tobacco. How do you plan to do that? How are we going to reduce the damage caused by tobacco in other ways than by reducing its use? It is, of course, essential to move forward on these issues. We do not intend to sit and dream of reducing tobacco use. We will work systematically in different ways to get there. That is absolutely not impossible. There are very great opportunities to take steps forward to gradually move forward the positions and finally completely knock off the legs of the tobacco industry and ensure that we have a smoke-free society. Surely it is the policy's job to take that responsibility and do what it can to get there. You talk a lot about snus being less harmful. Yeah, but what's the argument? Snus is still harmful. It is very clear, not least from the Public Health Agency, that we need to reduce the use of snus, just as we need to reduce the use of cigarettes, which are even more dangerous. The proposal to restrict marketing and self-service does not prohibit snus or smoking. Do you want to stop smoking by starting snus? Do it! Our proposal does not prevent it. Madam President, I find it difficult to see that anyone who wants to quit smoking by starting to snort would not do so just because there is less advertising in the shops. You are now voting down proposals for enhanced marketing, not only for snuff, but also for cigarettes. We are therefore missing an opportunity, Madam President, to further reduce tobacco use. I cannot understand why you do not want to restrict advertising for children and young people. I would like to leave that question open, because I believe that it has not yet been answered.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-178	Madam President, I would like One question that remains unanswered is my question as to whether the Green Party gives priority to reducing the total use of tobacco or to reducing tobacco-related damage. I think we need to have a serious input into this about seeing the fact that many have been helped by the snus when they have stopped smoking. In fact, it is a very clear connection in Sweden: we have the lowest tobacco-related mortality rate at the same time as we have the highest proportion of snusers. In the best of worlds – absolutely – no one would be dependent on nicotine or any tobacco product, but we are not really there. The National Board of Health and Welfare conducted a survey where it turned out that many were actually helped by the snuff. Snus is not a health product, but we will give an honest description of it. I do not think the description given by Mrs Lindhagen was correct and correct. I believe that much of that description is based on the more general research studies carried out on smokeless tobacco, for example. And the study on the risk of diabetes is based on a use far above normal use. So I think it is important that we take the facts seriously and describe the reality as it is. We Moderates want effective action. We therefore welcome much of what is put forward in the bill. We have pushed ourselves to ensure that there are permit requirements. We support a large part of extending the smoking ban. However, we think that the limit to politics must go somewhere, for example, on how many prills there should be in a snus box or on whether an adult should be allowed to sit on an outdoor café and take a cigarette or not.
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-182	Madam President, I would like I think this is a rather strange debate. I understand that we agree that the snuff has harmful effects, but sometimes in the debate it seems that we do not agree on it. Nevertheless, let us say that we agree that snuff is harmful. It is less harmful than cigarettes but still harmful. Should we not do everything we can from the policy of restricting both the use of cigarettes and the use of snuff? I do not understand the logic of the arguments put forward by the parties that now want to vote down the proposal on the strengthening of marketing and who do not want to impose a ban on self-service in the case of cigarettes and snuff, even though we know that it affects tobacco use. What do we want in the Green Party? I thought I was clear, Madam President, in my reply, but I should be even clearer. We want to reduce the damage. We want to reduce tobacco-related deaths. How do we do that? Yes, we do so by reducing tobacco use. Madam President, I would like The political decisions we can make in order to reduce tobacco use in various ways, in this House, in my firm conviction, we have a responsibility to take. We are now missing an opportunity to tighten up the legislation on cigarettes. There are parties that even want a ban on exposure, that is to say, go even further. Like the Christian Democrats, I do not see it as a threat to the freedom of the individual. This is not a ban on buying snuff or cigarettes. It is about making it more difficult for the tobacco industry to make money from people who are at risk of their health. Why don't the Moderates want to do this?
i-9fd0b6cbe8187b9f-186	Madam President, I would like I wish sometimes politicians could chill out and take a thing. Now it's Christmas days. It's Christmas dinner, and people eat food with saturated fats and herring sweetened with sugar. Besides, maybe you'll take a nub. And in front of Kalle Anka you sit back on the couch and take a dirty snus and have it pretty good. Life offers quite a lot of dangers. And to get through it, you sometimes need to do things that can also be harmful. There was someone here who raised the fact that doctors and research say that tobacco is dangerous. Yes, of course it is. There is no dividing line in Swedish politics at all. The distinction goes on the question of whether we should make a distinction between different types of tobacco and whether we should sometimes let people make some bad choices in their own lives or whether we politicians should go in and decide. I think we should make a distinction between different tobacco products. Snus is very dangerous sometimes. But, above all, in this debate, perhaps we should consider it a gateway from smoking rather than a gateway to a bad addiction. There are many things that are not illegal but that are inappropriate and that can be done in all kinds of public places. But that doesn't mean that every thing should be banned. It must be up to the municipality, if it is places that the municipality owns and manages, to decide which rules apply. And it must be up to companies and individuals to decide their own places. It is the owner, the manager and the manager of a place who can decide whether something that is inappropriate should be prohibited. It was someone who tried to make this a question of democracy by saying that 90% do not want it and that only 10% want to use or use tobacco in this way. I grew up with asthma. I belong to this 90% and have never had a cigarette. However, I do not think that democracy is always about doing what the majority wants, but we should also protect the minority. The ten per cent's right to decide over their own bodies and lives outweighs the so-called right of the 90 per cent to control the lives of others. If you want to take a snus, you should be able to do it. If you want to sell snuff and market it in your own little shop, you should do it. If you want to take a cigarette in the outdoor restaurant or sit down in a restaurant where there are smokes, you should do it. Oh, my God, Madam Speaker! Can't politicians sometimes chill, take a thing and let people decide over their own lives! Of course, the restaurant owners should be allowed to allow e-cigarettes, water pipes and maybe cigarettes on their outdoor café. If you're not happy with that, you can go to another restaurant. There are a lot of restaurants where it is not allowed, and that supply is created on the market. When we go forward with banning e- cigarettes and water pipe too, it is actually no longer for public health reasons. Then it is paternalism, and you knock out the entire part of the serving culture that offers water pipes. It knocks out traders and restricts people's right to actually control their own lives. Madam President, I would like I hope that the Riksdag and the parish in here can sit back, chill, enjoy some life and let other people decide over their own lives.
