i-73efc8c92f66b782-3	Madam President, I would like Good morning! The budget proposal submitted to the Riksdag on 15 November 2018 was decided by a transitional government and was therefore prepared in accordance with specific principles. After the parliamentary elections of 12 December 2018, in the first stage of the budgetary process, supported other expenditure frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the transitional government, and which we believe must be considered as a whole, we refrain from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 1. This is the first time that a transitional government has submitted a budget proposal to Parliament. In a memorandum from the Council of State Committee, certain guidelines have been issued for the practical work of the Government Office during a transitional period. The Constitutional Committee, when examining the powers of a transitional government, has referred to these guidelines. According to the guidelines, a transitional government should only decide on current and urgent matters. It also states that a transitional government should not put forward proposals which are politically controversial or which have a clear party political orientation. With the preparation of the transitional government's proposals for the state budget, we are beyond the terrain where existing constitutional practices can provide guidance. It would have been welcome if all parties had respected the fact that we find ourselves in a situation where the country does not have a government and the principle is first, the budget has since been respected. How the parties and members of the Riksdag choose to act not only has consequences for economic policy in 2019 – it is a trifle in this context – but also provides a basis for constitutional practice for similar situations in the future. I think we should all consider our responsibility in this situation. In the light of this seriousness, we had expected an orderly and responsible process with the transitional budget. I have to say that the actions of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, which have led to the situation we are in today cannot be described as either orderly or responsible. That's anything but satisfying. We have problems with inadequate preparation. This can be exemplified in another committee area, namely the area of the Culture Committee. You can enjoy this with free entrance to museums. Some of us believe that even the poor have a right to the common cultural heritage of the country. Others say it's only for those who can afford it. It is a policy and an ideology that reveals something about our view of humanity. But you can't be careless when you suddenly find that the museums have to be able to charge. The entrances are not built for it, so you have to wait. Then the committee must be called up extra to fix it, and it ends up taking some money from the libraries instead. It's sloppy and hashish. This is what we KU nerds get a little upset about. In the area of expenditure we are now discussing, Category 1, the impact on the country's county administrative boards is only partially visible. After all, only 65 million are taken from them, and all of us in the KU met the country's governors this spring know what the situation is on the country's county boards. It's very problematic. However, when one looks at the impact of slaughtered appropriations in various areas, one can see that the impact in terms of the number of jobs on the country's county boards is about 350. On a medium-sized or small county administrative board, there are 10 to 15 posts in an organisation of 150 to 200 people. On the larger county boards there are 30 to 40 jobs. I thought the members of the KU knew what the situation on the country's county boards was like. In a situation where we have a young 15-year-old girl from Sweden who is in Katowice and calls on world leaders to assume their responsibilities, a budget is presented where climate measures are slaughtered. I think it's pretty upsetting. But as a KU nerd, I do not have the right to be upset about the content, but I am just upset about a terrible poor preparation and a hafs work. Had the constitutional fathers been respected – government first, budget later – it would have been in order. It would have been prepared then, and those who had submitted the budget would have known the consequences. If the Moderates and Christian Democrats could now form a government, they would have been able to put forward proposals during the spring and thus get through the policy they would have liked, including the impossibility for social welfare recipients to take part in the country's cultural heritage and including the slaughter of climate action.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-14	Madam President, I would like As this is the last debate for us in the Constitutional Committee of the House this year, I would like to begin by thanking all the committee committees and the committee secretariat for a constructive autumn session. Since the Swedish democrats' expenditure motion is below the framework now adopted, I would like to ask for our reservation to be approved. The Swedish Democrats have a solid and well-prepared budget. I will go into some detail in a few areas under Category 1, which is our area of preparation. In particular, I will mention two important savings. The first concerns the Government Office. We note that the appropriation for the Government Office has increased by more than 1 billion since the 2013–2014 budget, although the long-term trend shows that the number of government affairs decided has more or less remained stable since then. The government with the Government Office therefore receives reduced appropriations in our budget. The government can and will work more with streamlining its own work. If the non-political officials in the departments are given more urgent tasks, they may have less time to pass around lists of names for political roll-calls. The second real budgetary reform I would particularly like to highlight is our proposal for a gradual shift in media support. The Swedish Democrats note that developments in the area of mass media have made the old support system out of time. We therefore intend to completely abolish the so-called operating aid within a period of five years. Operating aid is thus referred to as the aid granted for the operation of a newspaper, which may have a digital edition or be published on paper. The size of the aid is based on the edition and the frequency of the publication. However, the reduction in operating aid does not relate to the so-called distribution aid and to innovation and development aid, both of which remain unchanged. Madam President, I would like However, with the measures proposed by the Swedish Democrats in other areas, such as the reduction of sickness pay and the reduction of employers' contributions for small businesses, and the now abolished tax on advertising in periodical publications, the conversion of smaller editorial offices in particular should be facilitated. Moreover, with a Swedish democratic policy, small local editors who do not currently receive pre-support should benefit, and perhaps even new local smaller newspapers will start and grow. It is quite unreasonable for the state to keep a dated and dying industry under its arms in this way. As I said, I could talk further about our budget. But I also need to touch on the fact that Sweden is now governed by a transitional government, which has thus submitted a transitional budget. Nevertheless, I have to say that I have respect for the transitional government, which has presented a transitional budget which – as I have been able to interpret it – does not actually contain any political proposals beyond what was invested in last year. Having said that, it is important to be clear that there is no such thing as transitional holidays or expedition parliaments. There is only one Parliament voted in the general elections. That Parliament owns the full financial and fiscal right. I can draw a parallel to Category 1. The Constitutional Committee was founded with the Constitution of 1809. In the same year, in the same constitution, it was also stated that a Swedish people's age-old right to tax themselves is passed by the nation's Estates alone in the general parliament. Thus, translated into modern language, the principle applies that it is the parliament and not the government that decides on taxes, at least for 209 years. It is therefore in itself no wonder that Parliament decides on a different budget from that proposed by the government. The strange thing is, however, that this could have been a non-question about other parties not only talked about being the adult in the room but also been that and having had talks with us. As it is now, the Swedish Democrats, without negotiating substance in the budget and framework that is now adopted, have chosen to support the budget that is the second best option after ours. It is therefore no wonder that we voted for the proposals for the budgetary framework of the two other conservative parties. We will therefore vote, if and when our proposal falls, on the Moderates' and KD's expenditures motion. We hope that this gesture and this political position will be understood for what it is, namely an invitation to adults to negotiate many positive and good conservative reforms that Sweden so badly needs in the coming period.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-27	Madam President, I would like In two days' time, on Monday 17 December, we will begin the celebration and celebration of democracy's breakthrough in Sweden 100 years ago. On 17 December 1918, the Riksdag decided on a proposal for a constitution involving equal voting rights for municipalities. The parliament could not decide on constitutional changes, as the introduction of female voting rights required. Instead, an agreement was reached to give women the right to vote through a constitutional amendment, which was formally decided by the Riksdag in the spring of 1919. Nevertheless, on 17 December 1918, democratic reforms definitely gained ground in practice. 100 years later, Swedish democracy is fundamentally well-functioning and worth defending. If it is something we have learned, it is never to take democracy, the principles of the rule of law, human rights, free and independent media and the right of minorities to protection for granted. These values and values and the world order on which they rest are not once and for all given. Values, values and the liberal world order are being challenged, challenged and even threatened, not only far away but unfortunately also in an increasing number of European countries – in Orbán's Hungary and by political forces in Poland, Greece, Italy, Austria and also at home in Sweden. For us in the Center Party, the starting point is that Swedish democracy must be constantly defended. It must also continuously develop and adapt to a changing world. People's will will will be channelled through effective administration within both the Government Office and the Riksdag, with respect for different minorities and the rule of law. And it will be reviewed by independent media. A large part of the political institutions intended to ensure this are in Category 1. The public institutions whose task is to implement the policies supported by general elections must do so in an efficient and transparent manner. Madam President, I would like The Center Party went to elections on a very ambitious reform programme to move Sweden forward – to get more new arrivals to work, strengthen climate change, strengthen security and hold Sweden together. We also chose to actively fight for values and defend liberalism, humanity and equality. Like Sweden 100 years ago, courageous leaders and elected representatives who dared to think new and equal, including more, in order to defend and develop our Swedish democracy, today we need to be leaders who build Sweden strong with hope, courage and faith in the future. It is about a Sweden that respects the individual's rights and everyone's equal value. Less than that, the tasks we in the Swedish Parliament and the officials in the Government Office and in the Swedish administration – our public institutions – are facing today and tomorrow. We assume that the financial resources made available will enable us to cope with these important regulatory guiding principles in public administration. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party does not take part in the decision on the allocation of budget appropriations, because Parliament has already decided on a financial framework that is different from what we wanted. The views of the Centre Party on the allocation of appropriations are therefore reflected in a separate opinion in our budget report.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-35	Madam President, I would like All right, then we are debating the budget report on the government of the kingdom for the coming year. This year, the entire budget is an unusually small and special product. The normal thing when the budget is debated is that there is a government that presents its economic policy to Parliament, sometimes after negotiations have been made with other parties or another party. For the last four years, the budget submitted by the government has been negotiated with the Left Party. This year we have no new government in place. The proposed budget is a transitional budget. A transitional budget is not a reform programme. It is not intended to solve the major societal challenges that exist. The transitional budget is intended to be temporary. It will make our authorities work during the process of government formation. It will ensure that there is peace and quiet in the authorities while Sweden is waiting for a new government. It hasn't been like that this year. The least you can say is that in many places it is very messy. A transitional budget is nobody's favorite. It is drafted by what is currently in force but does not contain new reforms, and temporary efforts that are already ready remain. The Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party have all been involved in discussing the principles on which this budget is based. One might think that it should go through because there are basic principles for making a transitional budget – but not. All bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have written budget movements. The House has now voted through a framework for committees based on a mix of the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' draft budgets – and then there are some further amendments that none of them had included from the outset. The management of the committees has so far been, to say the least, a mess. In some committees, the proposals have proved impossible to implement, and they have had to be amended back and forth. Several committees have not yet been able to adjust their budget reports. When we look at the government in the KU, we do so quite often because Members believe that the government has failed in the preparation of various proposals. With this process, it can be observed that the bar for when a case is considered finished has ended up very, very low. The Left Party has taken responsibility for taking the process forward. That is why we voted for the transitional budget – not because it is the budget that we want, but because we want to take responsibility in a difficult situation and contribute to the focus and resolution of the issue of the process of government formation. Our economic policy will all be able to present – as a government leader, as a negotiating party or as an opposition party. The Parliament has now given a different direction to budgetary policy than that expressed by the transitional budget. The financial framework adopted for the area of expenditure we are discussing here and now is also different from the proposal contained in the transitional budget. That is why we have abstained from taking a position on the distribution of money in Category 1. We would like to see changes in several appropriations, but we will get back to that when there is a government in place. The transitional budget retains lines which, according to the previous budget, would be removed for 2019 and lines to be added under the previous financial perspective. The idea of a transitional budget is that such lines may be adjusted when there is a new government in place and a complete, elaborate budget based on the new government's economic policy can be presented. The proposal that the majority of committees have now submitted to the House includes some of these adjustments. Some funds have been removed for things that have already been implemented, such as local investment and money intended for other things that have already taken place, such as the elections that took place last autumn. These are things that would have been meant to be removed. When it comes to things that were to be added according to previous plans, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have not been as anxious. The planned addition of 5 million for the Sameting has not bothered to add. If it means that you do not think that that money is needed or if you think that it can be added then by a future government, it is not clear, but inconsistent is. A direct reduction in the conservative draft budget is a reduction of SEK 65 million in the county administrative boards' environmental inspection work. This reduction will hit hard at a time when everyone should come together to achieve environmental objectives and to make a transformation of the whole country and society. It is particularly remarkable that this is made possible by the fact that the Liberals and the Center Party have released the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have received support from the Swedish Democrats to get through. If the Liberals and the Center Party had chosen to support a transitional budget, they would have followed the principle they previously said they were in favour of and stand very clearly for, namely not to give the Swedish Democrats influence over politics.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-50	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more liberal policy. The Liberals' budget exercise for 2019 includes reforms to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, more knowledge in school, stronger defence, increased security and the reconstruction of personal assistance, LSS, which the current government, now a transitional government, has totally demolished. The Liberals' budget points out the direction of the liberal reforms that are now needed. We do so by focusing in our draft budget on a knowledge-based school policy, reduced taxes, strengthened defence and a green tax shift, where taxes are increased on what is harmful to the environment. We want to see more efficient labour market policies and discontinued building subsidies. It is simply a liberal policy that would have been the best for Sweden. If it were so important for the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats that the Swedish Democrats would not have any influence, those parties would have been very welcome to vote for either the Liberals' or the Center Party's budget motion. But they didn't. Obviously, it was not so important that the Swedish Democrats should not have any influence. Now we can leave that debate to one side. Madam President, I would like There are a number of areas in Category 1 Kingdom government where liberals want to highlight particularly important initiatives. The first area is terrorism. I believe that the work against terrorism needs to go hand in hand with the long-term work against radicalisation and violent extremism. There is much to do before Sweden has a well-functioning structure to prevent violent extremism. The funding should be increased for preventive activities within civil society organisations and municipalities working against violent extremism, according to the Liberals. We all know what is going on here in Europe with radicalised organisations. I myself come from Gothenburg, which is one of the worst affected cities in Sweden. For me, it is very important that the Constitutional Committee continues to invest money in this area and spend more money than the transitional government's budget contained. The second area is investment in national and religious minorities, Madam President. Security work to protect religions and secure the right to free religion must be strengthened. We do so in the Liberals in our budget motion. We are also increasing the funding for national minorities. This should be increased, as a further strengthening and increase of the allocation is necessary in order to ensure that the accession of more municipalities to administrative areas for minority languages does not take place at the price of reduced ambitions and less favourable conditions for those municipalities that are already included. If more municipalities are to participate in the activities and have a service for minority languages, it is also necessary to increase the funding. We also believe that the funding for the national minority of Roma should be increased. There we have an investment of 5 million because we believe that the implementation of the national Roma inclusion strategy requires long-term and sustainable commitments. We are therefore investing more money in this area. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has rejected the Liberals' proposals for estimates of revenue and the distribution of expenditure by financial area by framework decision. Thus, Sweden takes a different path from that which the Liberals would have liked to see. Our draft budget is to be seen as a whole. We Liberals therefore choose not to take part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations under Category 1.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-58	Madam President, I would like I wonder which is the strongest word I can use in the speaker's chair. Actually, I'd like to use it now. After the events of the last few weeks and the various moves and actions in this House, I am– yes, perhaps I shall not say that then. The previous speakers have explained in their speeches the various appropriations in the field of expenditure and the impact of the budgetary framework decided by Parliament. It was the government's budget bill that fell into the Chamber last Wednesday. It was a good transitional budget that fell. It is based on several years of S-MP collaboration, where we have made great efforts both on the environment and climate and on reducing gaps and standing up for people who have come to our country and need support to get into and become part of this society. But the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the SD want something else. They chose to remove the current government without having their own government option. The government has since been a transitional government that followed the practice of not taking measures that bind up a future government. Instead of taking part in serious talks on how to get a government that keeps xenophobia and nationalism away from the corridors of power, M and KD have chosen to sign up in a budget reservation that, with the support of the SD, obtains a majority in parliament. Several previous speakers have been in the same area. As a member of the Constitutional Committee, I feel very uncomfortable. There is a requirement that matters decided here in Sweden's highest decision-making body, the Riksdag, should be well prepared. These proposals are not well prepared. As far as the expenditure area itself is concerned, the proposal for a reduction of SEK 65 million for the county boards is very ill prepared. The 65 million are not just dollars, but people are doing something for that money. There are reasons why the government has invested that money to improve environmental inspections. I hope that future speakers representing the budget that is now going to go through will report on its impact on the County Administrative Board. How many people will stop? How many tasks will not be carried out? What tasks will not be carried out? You have to be able to answer that when you vote through a budget like this. For me, SEK 65 million is not just money. It is also a work that will not be done. I am not taking part in the decision on appropriations in this area of expenditure because Parliament has already decided on a different budget from the government's transitional budget. I should therefore like to refer here in the speaker's chair only to the joint specific opinion of the MP, S and V. I would also like to wish the President and the Presidency a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-65	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the committee's proposal for a decision. Area 1 which we are now debating concerns the parts of the budget that finance the government of our country, such as funds for the Government Office, the Parliament and the Association, and the financing of elections and of important parts of our democracy such as the protection of minorities and human rights. It is the central administration of the Swedish state. The joint draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in Category 1 is the proposal that has received the greatest support in the Constitutional Committee. I'm proud of that. In this area of expenditure, if we are to be honest, there is not much difference between our draft budget and the draft budget of the transitional government. But, in principle, our amendments, our priorities, are very important. They point out a new direction for Sweden, a direction where the state's most basic functions are prioritised and where the social contract is protected. It is also the case, as we have heard from previous speakers, that the transitional government must follow specific principles of its budget. But that does not mean that it is an unpolitical budget, as some speakers and our Prime Minister sometimes try to make it sound like. On the contrary, it is literally just as last year's budget was. Projects and activities that have already been completed are now being financed again. In short, it is a poor, worse-functioning repetition of last year's budget. That was not what Sweden needed then, and that is even less what Sweden needs today. Let me be clear that, formally, this is quite right. This is exactly what a transitional government should do. On this point, I have no objection. However, it has a number of comical consequences. And the Riksdag is not a transitional holiday, so what responsibility do we take if we sit and watch and do not change this, not present our proposals, our policies and our budget for a better Sweden? We in the Moderates and Christian Democrats have done so. It is clearly better that Sweden can employ 10 000 more in the police than to celebrate Ingmar Bergman's 100th anniversary once more. Or, in order to take a KU-funded proposal, to finance Swedish participation in the UN Security Council 2019 despite the fact that Sweden will no longer be sitting there then. Let me remind you that the transitional budget is indeed an emergency solution. It still allows Sweden to function if no other budget is adopted. The financial and reform powers are in Parliament, and it is here that we have the duty and responsibility to present our policies and our draft budgets. The voters expect more of us sitting in this Chamber than us to allocate funds for purposes that have already been implemented without protesting. Therefore, I am proud that the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget can be realised on 1 January 2019. It means that Sweden's police officers get more colleagues and higher salaries, that care queues are shortened and that ordinary people get more money left in their wallets. It gives the political direction that Sweden has lacked for the last four years and that we so badly need. Madam President, I would like Hate crimes are increasing in Sweden. Jews in Malmö in 2018 feel forced to move, to emigrate. In 2017, the Jewish congregation in Umeå unanimously decided to close down all its activities – not because there was no commitment, not because they were too few, not because they wanted to, but because of hatred and threats and harassment directed against themselves, their parishioners and their children. This is a shameful development, a development which we urgently need to reverse and which we, as a society, cannot stand by and just let happen. Even Sweden's Muslims suffer from hate crimes. Not infrequently they feel a vulnerability and an alienation. On top of that, ordinary believing Muslims are often forced to practice their religion in mosques funded by totalitarian and extreme religious forces, forces whose aim is to spread extreme interpretations of Islam that radicalize and alienate our country. It is clear that Sweden needs to increase both the protection and security of minorities, such as Jews, but also to review the regulations for foreign funding of our religious communities. We must limit the influence of fundamentalists and secure people's right to exercise their faith without fundamentalist influence. Madam President, I would like The problems in Sweden can be talked about for a long time – far too long, unfortunately. It is not the problems that make me proud of Sweden. But the situation is actually changing, and it is the belief that it is possible and the will to do what has led us moderates and Christian Democrats to present our budget. We shall be able to continue to be a country that holds diversity and minorities. Then freedom of religion must be protected and protected, and we, as a society, must take joint responsibility to put an end to all the hatred and threats that are oppressing more and more people in Sweden today. That is our duty. This requires that we, as politicians, dare to prioritise. When the rule of law is failing and when the rule of law is creaking, it is always those who are most vulnerable and those who are in the minority who are most affected. I am not saying that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats will resolve all this at once and on a board overnight. Of course not. But it is a first important step on the road to a safer and freer Sweden, a Sweden where trust and cohesion are safeguarded and where the state keeps its part of the social contract – in short a little more bourgeois Sweden.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-80	Madam President, I would like Jonas Eriksson sought a word that would be appropriate in this House to sum up his feelings. I could suggest that the floor be raised. It is the KU-wise, and it covers a lot of what one could feel about the situation that we share this autumn. I am not thinking, of course, of appropriations going up or down and not of smaller appropriations, but of the whole. I am thinking of the challenging situation that we are in and have been in since the elections and, I am sure, the political scientists will say, long before. I and, I believe, we are all concerned about a situation in which our constitution and democracy are unable to meet the challenges we face. But I am also pleased to say that we and our Constitution have kept to the measure. We have a situation that has never been tried before, where it has been extremely long before we have a government in place. We still have no prospect of getting a government in place. Maybe we'll go on a Christmas break without a government. Yet Sweden works. Yet we are debating, and we are doing so in the KU-wise: calm, calm and with thought. Democracy is holding; I think it is important. So, in the midst of all the things that the word agitated is able to gather, you still have to put it in a safe way. It is safe to live in Sweden, where our democracy, despite challenges, is not threatened. We're standing by. We stand for the common good – the common good – and we will continue to do so. Area 1, which we have to deal with, the Kingdom government, is primarily about the Government Office, the Riksdag and the embassies. It has been a great job to do this. In particular, I would like to thank the entire office for its tremendous work. We know that we can lean on a cabinet even when the pressure is enormous. It's not visible outside, but we know how important it is. I and everyone else from the parties thank you. I would also like to thank the colleagues from all parties in the committee for their constructive work. The KU has the opportunity, the privilege and also the duty to talk and try to find a common path. Where we cannot find a common path, we find the least bad and try to stick to it. Now we found ourselves in a situation where we had a transitional government, an untested state. We agreed that it is reasonable for a transitional government to present a transitional bid. I do not want to over-examine future KU notifications and views in them, but as far as I can see right now, no shadow falls over the transitional government and its handling. I have not been able to note any shortcomings. You've done your job just fine. This should be said because it is not self-evident. It is a very difficult, untested situation – the government has done it well in a very difficult situation. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence have stood up and said: yes, it may be that we have a transitional government, but we are still there. We have a defence policy and a defence minister; the country is not in a vacuum. Having said that, I would like to make room for the future KU trial that may come from any KU notifications, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for your good work so far. I fully understand that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party feel tied up when their government is unable to present a proper budget. Theoretically, the three parties could, of course, have put forward their own budgets and, as it were, made their own small start. However, a different balance was struck, which I respect and I think is perfectly natural. But it would not have been natural if the opposition had refrained from exercising. Every time we exercise, it is a sharp proposal. We do not present any motions in Parliament that are not meant to go through, although there might be some practical problems with one or another exercise if it went through. Now all parties had the right to exercise, and I would say that at least the opposition parties had an obligation to exercise. Why? Because a transitional budget cannot cover all situations. We have heard here about a number of situations where historical events will not happen again, and funding for them should, of course, not occur more than once. After all, this could not be dealt with by a transitional budget. But there are more important items of expenditure that we need to take into account. I do not want to go into detail because it does not belong to our field of investigation, but I can only mention police, defence and medical care. You can fill it up yourself. These are enormous needs which we are unable to deal with with with a transitional budget. So the parliamentary parties, especially the opposition parties, have an obligation to meet those needs and do something to ensure that we do not stand without increases in the funding lines in the areas I mentioned, and others that I did not mention. Taxes cannot be adjusted in a spring budget. If you want to exercise, you have to do it now. We have different views on how taxes should go up or down, and we have agreed on one thing that I think is important: pensioners. But there are many other things on which we must have an opinion. There is a difference in policy, and then we must respect it. It is an obligation for parties to exercise. But think about it! What a fantastically good constitution we have, which admits that we have this calm and constructive conversation. Compare with the United States: Unless Congress and the Senate approve the President's budget, they have no budget. The expenses will end, and the state employees will not receive their salary. I must say that I am proud of Sweden's Constitution, which does not put us in such impasses but works well. A word on our budget area, Madam President. It is about nearly SEK 14.6 billion that we have in our spending area. As previously reported, not least by Ida Drougge, the joint reservation of Christian Democrats and Moderates adjusts some of the figures downwards; the decrease is SEK 308 million. There have also been reasons why the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have proposed this. This is 2% of the total budget in the KU area, so there are no dramatic changes. In other areas of expenditure, it is much more money – it should be admitted. However, with regard to what we have to deal with, it is still on the margins, and the preparation that has actually taken place when officials from the Government Office have come to the KU has shown that this can be dealt with, including the increase in expenditure on support for the religious communities and threats to them. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal regarding Category 1 Kingdom Executive Board of the KU1.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-98	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report 4 on Category 8 Migration. The budget proposal submitted to Parliament on 15 November 2018 was decided by a transitional government. Specific principles were therefore applied in the formulation of the bill, where the starting point was the budget decided by the Riksdag for 2018. After, on Wednesday 12 December, the Parliament endorsed, at the first stage of the budgetary process, other expenditure frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the transitional government, and which we believe must be considered as a whole, we Social Democrats are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure. A transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It does not address the major societal problems of new reforms. Nor is it intended to do so. It is available to ensure that important social functions, welfare and authorities function in the same way as before. It is needed to create stability and is precisely a transitional budget pending the entry into office of a government and the presentation of its economic policy. We believe that the transitional government has explained the principles, which have been developed following the process that has been, in a clarification way and applied them loyally in the preparation of the budget proposal for 2019. But it should not be interpreted as saying that the transitional government's budget bill expresses the political priorities of the Social Democrats. The question has therefore been raised as to whether, like the opposition parties, we should have presented a budgetary motion during the general period of exercise. However, we chose not to do so. Madam President, I would like How the parties and members of the Riksdag choose to act not only has consequences for economic policy in 2019 but also lays the foundation for constitutional practice in similar situations in the future. We believe that, in a situation in which the country is led by a transitional government, parliamentary work must be concentrated on getting a strong government that can at least be tolerated by a majority of Members. A newly-responsive government will need to present an extraordinary amending budget as soon as possible with the necessary corrections, and this applies regardless of the decision taken by the Riksdag on this matter. We also have a responsibility for the fact that parliamentary treatment does not exacerbate the problems by creating twitchiness and ambiguities in government management, for example in the case of the Migration Agency. We all know that after the years of expansion, the Migration Agency has carried out one of the most extensive, if not the most extensive, reductions in Swedish government history. At the end of 2018, employees will be just over 2,000 fewer than at the beginning of the year. In the summer of 2017, the agency had nearly 9,000 employees; at the end of the current period, they have about 6 000 employees. Nevertheless, queues have decreased in all cases except citizenship. Processing times have been shortened during the year, and fewer and fewer applicants are waiting for a reply. In December 2015, over 180 000 persons were enrolled in the reception system for asylum seekers. By the end of 2018, that figure will have fallen to just over 50,000. In 2018, the number of enrolled persons decreased by 20,000. We want to see elaborate proposals in all areas – it is extremely important – and not as in this report, a proposal that was tabled at the last moment by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the Social Security Committee. The Swedish Democrats have a reservation in the report because they do not support the distribution of the various appropriations. What we can see is very different. Yet it is precisely the Swedish Democrats who have made it possible for this budget to apply. Or do we really know what's going on? There are many questions. Madam President, I would like We want to see a sustainable migration policy that safeguards the right of asylum and, within the framework of regulated immigration, facilitates cross-border mobility, promotes needs-driven labour migration and exploits and takes into account the development effects of migration and deepens European and international cooperation. As in other areas, order is important in the area of migration. We want to see reforms to continue to speed up the establishment of people who are far removed from the labour market. Our policy is about necessary and important reforms and proposals aimed at providing municipalities with increased resources for well-being at a time when Sweden has hundreds of thousands more children and old people in need of school and care. It is also a policy that drives the construction of rental apartments that people can afford to live in. We are also talking about more sharp investments to tackle our climate change, about reforms that increase the freedom of families with children in the country and, not least, about raising the pensions of those who have worked a long working life but still have too low a pension. Madam President, I would like It is perfectly possible to implement such a policy because, for four years, we have turned large deficits into surpluses and brought public debt down to the lowest level since 1977. Now that we are well equipped to face recessions or other challenges, the strength of the Swedish economy should be used to build society stronger and make Sweden a safer country for all. But if this is to be the case, Sweden needs a strong social democratic government.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-115	Madam President, I would like I thank Carina Ohlsson for her speech. I'm going to dwell a little on the future. Perhaps the single most important lesson from the migration policy of recent years is that we should try to avoid the kind of twitchiness that has characterized this policy. It has been a step forward, a half back and two steps aside. Of course, I am thinking of the more fundamental issues. Should we have a migration policy which, like the previous one, is almost different in every respect from all the other countries in Europe? Or should we have a migration policy that is more in line with our world around us? We now have the latter, as we know, because of the tightening up of the government. But as everyone knows, the temporary law will expire in summer 2019. The Moderates believe that it would be good for a small country like ours to try to find a long-term agreement. We have therefore taken the initiative of creating a parliamentary inquiry into this, based on the fact that all parties are invited to see if it is possible to reason on a regulatory framework that will last for a little longer than just a few months to come. It's not serious to keep changing. If this is to become a reality and last for a long time, we must, of course, find a consensus across the block borders. Here I believe that the Moderates and the Social Democrats have important tasks to fulfil – not just us, of course, but we must form the basis of an agreement. The Moderates have on several occasions asked the Social Democrats whether they are interested in participating in such an agreement. We have stretched out one hand and did so long before the election movement, but we have been told repeatedly that the Social Democrats are not interested in making such an agreement. Why, Carina Ohlsson, do you not want to find a cross-block solution in migration policy?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-123	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, it is important in this area as well as in others that it is not twitchiness and that we have cross-block agreements. This is exactly what we worked out during the previous parliamentary term. We had to take over Johan Forssell's migration policy, and I thought I heard in the line that we have made several agreements across block borders during the period that has passed. I believe that this will continue to happen, but that is not the signal we get from the proposal we are now seeing and which only a small minority in the Social Security Committee is behind. That is why we are not taking a position on this, but are abstaining. Johan Forssell talked about the future – what future can we see in the future? What are the future proposals of the Moderates? This is cooperation with the Christian Democrats, but the Swedish Democrats have also supported it. This makes cooperation with us impossible because that kind of cooperation is very different from us.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-126	Madam President, I would like The previous term of office made two major changes. One was a cross-block agreement – Carina Ohlsson is quite right in that – where we in the alliance parties were included. We are still waiting for several of the things that we took in hand to be implemented. Sometimes the government hasn't worked so fast. For example, we are waiting for mandatory social information for asylum seekers. There is still not even a proposal to take a position on, so the Social Democrats have something to work on. The second was the temporary law. But it was not an agreement, it was the government itself that decided how it should be and then sent a bill to the Riksdag. Perhaps that is how we do politics in the red-greens, but that is not what we see in front of us. We want this to be done carefully and for all parties to be invited to join in trying to reason on something and get a handshake across the block border that lasts over time, so that we have a long-term and strengthened migration policy. Why do the Social Democrats reject this?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-130	Madam President, I would like I personally and we Social Democrats find it difficult to see what the Moderates see in front of them that lasts over time. We cannot see this in the proposal, not in the budget as a whole, nor in what we see in the Social Security Committee when it comes to migration policy. The signals need to be clearer if we are to have that kind of conversation. As far as I understand and could hear in the first line, Johan Forssell does not think that the temporary law currently in force is so bad that it has actually come to grips with a lot of the problems that we had to take over. It is this law that we will continue to have until we see something else or receive signals from the European Union that we have European legislation in this area to relate to.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-132	Madam President, I would like I listened to Carina Ohlsson's speech. I also listened a little to the debate of the Constitutional Committee before, and neither there nor particularly carefully in the speech here I could find a sufficiently good answer to the question why the Social Democrats have chosen not to present their own draft budget to Parliament. I fully understand that a transitional government follows the established principles that a transitional government should follow. However, I would like to mention what my colleague, Matheus Enholm, said in the previous debate, namely that it is important to realise that there is no such thing as a transitional holiday or an expedition Parliament. There is only one parliament voted for in the general elections, and this Parliament owns the full financial and fiscal right. In addition, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, as the transitional government that exists, have had every opportunity to produce a good basis and have had greater preparation opportunities. It is likely that preparations have been made for this during the pre-election period. It is incomprehensible to me that we should back down and just say: No, now we are a transitional government. Now we don't have to take our responsibility anymore. It is equally inexplicable to me that, on the basis of the principles, we choose to point the finger at us and call ourselves irresponsible when we choose to see a whole and when we point out at an early stage that there are parts that we do not agree with and that we see as keen to try to change at the next stage of the budgetary process. The budgetary process looks like it does with a framework decision followed by a spending area decision precisely so that adjustments can be made. Why do the Social Democrats choose not to take this opportunity?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-137	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we Social Democrats believe that the power must be put into bringing about a government that may not have a majority behind it but which, in any case, is passed by a majority here in Parliament. We see this as the ultimate responsibility. This is what we have tried hard to work for, above all to achieve cross-block cooperation, because we see that block policy puts a stop to a lot of cooperation. Paula Bieler said that I was irresponsible, but I do not think I had that word in my speech. What I mentioned, however, is the twitching of the kind of proposals that we are looking at now, for example, for authorities such as the Migration Agency. There is a very small majority in the Social Security Committee behind the budget. In the Swedish Democrats' proposal, the appropriations do not look at all the same, and yet you Swedish democrats have let through the whole, Paula Bieler. You carry a responsibility, and then I'm talking about responsibility, without an o in front. It would be exciting to hear how Paula Bieler views the future and how to deal with it. How will you compromise and cooperate in order to take proper responsibility as Members of Parliament?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-141	Madam President, I would like I intend to start with further quotes, which hopefully everyone here recognizes: As I said, I fully understand the desire to see a government in place. I do, too, but at present we have no idea when a government will be in place. There is even speculation about a possible extra choice. How long it will be after that, no one knows. To back down and say, 'No, we do not need to be an active Parliament. We don't have to take responsibility. I stand by is irresponsible. Yes, we in the Swedish Democrats supported the M-KD reservation when our own proposal fell because we as a whole saw it as better than the alternative, the transitional budget. We had announced at an early stage that we intended to highlight what changes can be made within the framework. That is exactly what we have done in our reservation. That's how we take responsibility.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-145	Madam President, I would like We always take responsibility for the mandate that we have as elected representatives. We see it this way: the government, which is a transitional government, is making a proposal. Paula Bieler said you had every opportunity to work out another proposal. I thought I heard, or I interpreted it so, that it would be from the government that exists. Paula Bieler shakes her head. Our view of responsibility is to work primarily to get a government that can present an amending budget that is really thorough and contains reforms. It should not be the twitching that we can now see and which provides bad conditions for authorities. This is how we look at being responsible as Members of Parliament.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-149	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report, which we could hear about at the turn of the line. Madam President, I would like It is, as you know, an unusual situation in Sweden today, to say the least. We have a transitional government that has sat far longer than I think anyone would have expected when our current constitution and our constitutions were drafted. We also have, for the first time, a transitional budget, which has been drafted in accordance with the principles in force, but which has therefore not been able to take account of changing circumstances and which certainly does not include reforms. The Swedish Democrats saw it as self-evident to put forward their own draft budget, just as we have done when active governments have come forward with draft budgets that we do not think have been up to date or are in line with what we want. If possible, it is even more important when it is precisely a transitional budget that has not been able to adapt at all to the current reality. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, when our draft budget fell in Parliament, we chose to support the draft budget that remained from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It is by no means an optimal draft budget. There are things that we clearly want to change there too. On the whole, however, in the choice between a passive transitional budget and a budget which, to some extent, proposes the necessary reforms and points to a reasonable direction for Sweden from the present point of view, we felt that it would be better if it were allowed to apply. Even when we first announced, at the press conference held by our economic-political spokesperson, that this was a perfectly reasonable opportunity, the listener could note attentively, however, that we put forward that in the area of migration we were not in agreement with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. We were concerned that they want to cut the grant to the Migration Agency so drastically in year one, not least because the forecasts that have come from the Migration Agency show that this is not sustainable and feasible. In just over two years, the Finnish Immigration Service has reduced its workforce by one third, from 9 000 to 6 000. Of course, a large part was expected. Many people were hired in the climate of panic that prevailed in autumn 2015, and they may not have been needed when migration flows had decreased slightly. But it has gone beyond what you might actually be prepared for. And there is definitely no opportunity to continue to take such great steps, not least because the administrators who are now working are those who have long experience, long notice periods and are really needed. That is why we already said at our press conference that we intend to make further proposals on how to redistribute and correct this in the very debate we have today and in the very decision that we are going to take on Monday. The budget as a whole is not yet fixed, Madam President. It is possible to make the necessary adjustments. Madam President, I would like I thought I'd dwell a little more on the situation at the Migration Agency. It is because, yesterday, all the members of our committee received an email from the Director-General of the Migration Agency. It was not enough with the report that we have heard and the oral presentation that the committee has received, because the Moderates and Christian Democrats continued to stick to drastic cuts. Therefore, the Migration Agency felt obliged to contact us again and emphasize exactly the possibility that we have here and now to allocate sufficient funds within the agreed framework of Category 8 to enable the Migration Agency to continue adapting to the reduced mission in an orderly and responsible manner. It is pointed out in the e-mail, in the report and in the presentation to us that such a rapid reduction as proposed will not lead to savings at all. As a result, matters will be left behind and take longer and queues will increase a great deal. This, in turn, means increased costs for all the people who get stuck in the system, not to mention the situation that these people will find themselves in pending a decision. This is not responsible, and I wish we were not the only party that wants to make adjustments to the reality that prevails. Madam President, I would like My colleague Jonas Andersson will talk a little more about the precise priorities that are very necessary and that the others should also be able to support. I would therefore like to move on to talk a little more about the investments and changes that we propose in our reservation. In our draft budget we had from the beginning an effort to return – voluntary one. Anyone who is attentive and nerding himself in documents notes that it is not there and is not in our reservation. However, it has a simple explanation. We have not given up this effort. It has always been intended to be part of the existing aid framework, because it will be used precisely for aid activities to enable safe, secure and reconstructive return aid. That is why we have now chosen to place this effort under the heading of international aid. In addition to this, we are committed not only to giving the Migration Agency the funds they need to keep their current activities alive but also to providing them with additional funds, because we believe that they continue to need reforms. They need to be able to provide better information to all kinds of migrants into and out of the country. Labour force, asylum seekers and so on need better information. The Migration Agency also needs to take a more active role in helping with precisely functioning return support, which unfortunately is not used to the same extent as would have been possible. We know that there have been people who want to be able to return, not least now that reconstruction in Syria, for example, has begun to take shape. We also have a greater focus on expulsions, expulsions and detention sites. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are happy to point out that they are giving SEK 100 million to this, which will not be possible to implement given that the Migration Agency needs this money for other things. They're extremely clear about that, too. We thus provide SEK 1 billion both for the construction of detention sites and for the expulsions needed for an orderly migration to be carried out. Finally, we are also making some cuts to various appropriations relating to court cases. It expresses our conviction that with clearer rules and better opportunities for the Migration Agency to give well-founded and well-founded decisions, there will not be an equal number of appeals and not an equal need for cases to be settled in courts. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would once again like to support the reservation in the report and reject the committee's proposal and the proposal in the transitional budget.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-162	Madam President, I would like We live in a globalised world. More people in the world migrate to seek refuge from war, terror and oppression, but also to work, study, and in other ways get a better life. More than 65 million people are on the run around the world. Most of them are in the immediate vicinity of the conflict. The situation is very difficult for the people who are fleeing and going to Europe on dangerous roads. The Center Party, like many other parties here, has pointed out the need for the EU to take joint responsibility for people on the run. Only in this way can we achieve more solidarity and offer protection to more people in the European Union. It is therefore important that the ongoing renegotiation of European asylum legislation at EU level results in common sustainable solutions. It is also important that Sweden works to ensure that asylum policy at EU level is so robust that agreements with third countries to prevent migration should preferably not be needed, as they create large and damaging effects on many levels. However, if such agreements will nevertheless be concluded, we shall work towards safeguarding democratic principles, fundamental human rights, the right to asylum and a dignified reception, where we minimise the effects of such agreements. In addition, we need to carry out a review of increased opportunities to enter the EU legally in order to prevent people from risking their lives in order to get here. Madam President, I would like In 2015, Sweden received nearly 163 000 asylum seekers, of whom more than 35 000 were unaccompanied children and young people. It was an unprecedented situation in modern Swedish history and created a strained situation. Responsible municipalities, authorities and voluntary forces were put under great pressure, a pressure that they handled very well on the basis of the conditions that existed. We'll be grateful and proud of that. But it became clear that Sweden was not prepared for such a large reception. The large number of people who applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015 put severe pressure on the reception of asylum. In recent years, however, the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply. We now need to find sustainable and long-term solutions to make reception more flexible and to manage both increased and reduced reception. We also need to shorten the time for asylum decisions. A fast and legally secure asylum process means that the integration process for those who are granted a residence permit can start earlier, but it also means improved conditions for people who are refused and are to return. Madam President, I would like Responsible migration policy combines humanity and humanism with order. It also takes into account the new reality that we have experienced in recent years. The Center Party defends the right to seek protection, a good reception and an effective path to integration. We believe that any family divided by war should have the right to live together and therefore want alternative protection to have the right to family reunification. We also believe that it should be possible to obtain a residence permit on the basis of special and particularly distressing reasons because otherwise it means that people in humanitarian need cannot stay in Sweden. At the same time, as usual, we in the Center Party are prepared to take responsibility, propose vigorous reforms and negotiate with other parties in order to reach broad agreements on a long-term sustainable migration policy. This must be based on humanity and humanism as well as order and order. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Centre Party does not take part in decisions on the allocation of budget appropriations, because Parliament has already decided on a financial framework that is different from what we in the Center Party want. Our view of distribution is reflected in our specific opinion.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-171	Madam President, I would like Even a very small child knows that five ants are more than four elephants. That is why 144 red-green mandates are undeniably more than the 143 bourgeois mandates. The bourgeois parties, who went to elections as an alliance bloc, lost the election. However, something decisive has changed in Swedish politics. What has changed, Madam President, is not that the Moderates and Christian Democrats can no longer count. No, what has changed is that M and KD can no longer resist the temptation to reach power with the help of the Swedish Democrats. It is this desire for power that has driven the normalisation of racism and reactionary nationalism and led us to stand here today with a transitional government with very limited room for manoeuvre and a dark blue budget with clear, brown fingerprints. Unfortunately, Madam President, this is not a surprising development. In both Europe and the United States we see both now and historically that it is always the right hand that lets fascists into power when the zeal becomes too strong to fill the pockets of the richest ones even more. In no other way can it be explained that the bourgeoisie, together with the SD, chose to vote down Prime Minister Stefan Löfven first, even though they did not have their own government alternative – because they obviously did not. The bourgeois alternative with Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister was rejected by the liberal sections of the bourgeoisie which after all did not seem to want to take the support of fascists. It honors them. Nevertheless, Madam President, on Wednesday, the same parties – the Center Party and the Liberals – chose to pass through their abstentions precisely the policy shaped by the blue-brown gang represented by Kristersson in the Prime Minister's vote. One can really wonder how things relate, Madam President. Seven parties in the Riksdag had agreed on important principles for a transitional budget, and the bourgeois parties that are currently causing chaos have actually been involved in those talks. The budget was explicitly not, as is sometimes claimed, a red-green budget; it was a transitional government's budget. It was nobody's wish budget – certainly not the Left Party's – but the transitional government's budget, which, above all, would make the state apparatus work and create some peace while a new government is to be washed up. It did not contain new policies but existing and already announced, which had to run on. Once a new government has taken office, we will all be able to present our economic policy, either as a government leader, as negotiating parties or as an opposition. But, see: The power hunger of the Moderates was too strong to wait for such a government process. By creating chaos and disorder, they are prepared, with SD's help, to impose power over politics without the ability to assume government responsibility. That is the situation we are in now, Madam President. M and KD have chosen the same path as bourgeois parties in the rest of Europe when they take the support of fascists, and the liberal bourgeois parties cannot really hold back but break their promise and passively release them. Madam President, I would like For all of us who believe in equality and justice, the blue-brown budget is a big mouth. It means 20 billion in tax cuts for those who have the most, which is financed, among other things, through the abolition of investments in very much needed housing, through the removal of measures to get people into jobs and through savings on, for example, gender equality and migration. The budget is also a crude mockery of our common future on this globe: lost air tax, reduced petrol tax and billions of savings on environmental and climate action are on the programme. The right always believes that stricter demands on the most vulnerable in some magical way will improve the situation. If we just lower our standard of living a little further, perhaps these people are getting up and running, you seem to think. By reducing benefits and withdrawing benefits, sick people should be under the guise of healthy ones, the unemployed should get a job and people should learn Swedish. But for the rich, on the other hand, it is always the opposite – the rich need a never-ending stream of benefits, deductions and tax relief to be justified. It's funny, that. Madam President, I would like Reality has long been absent from Swedish migration policy. This is evident in the proposals that have been pushed through in recent years. The parties have competed in sending signals to voters about harder grips against people on the run rather than in solving real challenges in society. It has opened a huge gap between political rhetoric and the reality that every day runs on out in municipalities and county councils. While the majority in this House has been busy making up restrictions and austeritys for people on the run, people in Sweden – at the authorities and in everyday life – have been busy receiving them. They have dealt with matters, welcomed new classmates, opened their homes to unaccompanied people, fixed study circles in Swedish and actually made everything work. However, rhetoric is one thing and reality is another. There are many more examples of this, Madam President. If we look at the LMA, as the rhetoric says will increase the return, we see that what is increasing is homelessness, vulnerability and crime. It goes without saying that it is very difficult to create a decent return job when you do not know which park bench people are sitting on. Another good example is the temporary law, which has already been mentioned here. Unfortunately, we do not know how it has worked, because the previous government has not made any evaluation as we have seen. However, the evaluations we see – from the Red Cross, Save the Children and a variety of NGOs – speak clearly: It is not the temporary law that prevents people from coming here. There are other things, in Turkey, Lebanon and Libya, that make people not come here. Instead, what has happened is that integration has deteriorated and people have gone very badly. The rhetoric says one thing, and reality says another. However, the sketchy blue-brown budget we now have on our table turns our backs on reality in a completely new way – a way we have not experienced before. We were all in committee just a week ago, when the Director-General sat before the committee and told us how impossible it would be to make cuts in the size we now have on the table. He carefully explained to the committee that waiting times will increase and that it is not possible to lay off staff with such short holding times. Yet the Moderates and Christian Democrats are completely deaf to it. Reality speaks clearly, but political rhetoric is more important. It is, Madam President, deeply deplorable. Delmi has produced a completely new report that shows how bad people get when they have to wait a very long time in the asylum process and how bad it is for integration and for society as a whole. This is one thing. The second thing that happens is that what you think is a saving in one line is a huge increase in costs on another line. The rhetoric says order; reality says chaos. This is what we have to deal with. It's nothing but obscene. Madam President, I would like Sweden has received people on the run many times before. Sweden has grown and become stronger and richer, not because we have turned our backs on each other but because we have invested in each other and in society. The Left Party has a policy that makes it possible. Instead of the fragile right-wing straw house for community building, where everyone can do best, we want to build a stable and secure society that holds us all. To achieve this, equality and justice are needed. I look forward to presenting this policy much more fully when we have a government in place. With this, Madam President, I refer to the special opinion of S, V and MP.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-188	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the area of the state budget that is called Category 8. It concerns migration, immigration, asylum policy and other matters. The Parliament has decided on a direction in the budget process that is different from that desired by the Liberals, in accordance with our budget motion. That is why, as is the practice here in Parliament, we are abstaining from taking a position in this part. Our collective proposals can be read in the Liberals' Budget Movement. The overall budget exercise for the entire state budget can be found by going to Parliament's website and looking for exercise 2018/ 19:2988. There is also the framework for this area of expenditure, that is, how much money it costs. Our policy on migration issues, in more detail, can be found in exercise 2018/ 19:2973. Madam President, I would like We live in a world of enormous influxes of refugees and humanitarian disasters. There are figures of over 60 million people fleeing the world. It is clear that Sweden as a prosperous, democratic and free country, and Europe as a prosperous continent with democracies and free states, have a very important responsibility to help people escape. At the same time, we know that the disintegration we see outside Europe and around the world today is so extensive that it is impossible for Sweden and Europe to help everyone in the world. I can't. But the people who come to Europe must have their right of asylum protected. They must be given legal certainty and the opportunity to appeal and to receive a dignified reception. In the long term, we must also act to ensure that other areas of the world, where there are today huge problems with dictatorship, hunger, persecution, wars, conflicts and so on, can build their countries and build a new future where children, young people, men and women – all citizens – have good opportunities for a good life. But this is, of course, a very laborious and long-term work, which is essentially based on the end of war, that people begin to respect human rights to a greater extent and so on. With the challenges we face, the countries of the European Union must in fact achieve a common asylum policy, as we see it from the Liberals. Until then, Sweden must draw the conclusions from the world we live in and the situation we have. The conclusion we draw in the Liberals, on which I believe the vast majority in Sweden are right to agree, is that Sweden cannot have rules for our migration policy that deviate greatly from the rules of the countries around us. We need to be realistic in terms of having regulations in Europe that do not differ too much if we want to have a long-term sustainable migration policy. We in the Liberals have said that cross-block arrangements are needed to create a long-term sustainable migration policy, and a parliamentary inquiry is needed for this. Until a workable legislation is in place, we accept the extension of the temporary law. It is also a very important issue for our party, the Liberals, that the restrictions that have been imposed on family reunification in particular are relaxed. We think that the issue of the families that today are divided is extremely important. This could, for example, be about refugee families from the war in Syria. We think it is a human task and a question of humanity to allow these families to reunite in Sweden. This is an issue that is very important to the Liberals. Madam President, I would like Following the refugee crisis in 2015, we had an agreement on migration policy. It was not enough for the then present government, which pushed through a temporary asylum law that went further and became even more restrictive. The last few years have been marked by a huge twitch in migration policy. It has contributed to increased legal uncertainty for asylum seekers. This has contributed to a decline in the quality of processing, as a result of a large number of people applying for asylum, but also as a result of the tight legal framework with short temporary residence permits, which will then be renewed. In addition, the Law Council has made extensive criticisms of legislation regarding both the temporary law and – above all – the high school law that came in the spring. This twitchiness and legal uncertainty must be brought to an end. This means that we need to arrive at a sustainable migration policy in the long term. One of the fundamental values that should characterise Swedish policy in this area is the right to asylum – that people seeking asylum have the right to do so. This does not mean that everyone can stay – some people will have to leave the country – but people who have protection reasons must be able to stay in Sweden. This is the first thing. The second is that we have regulated immigration which must be maintained. This means that it should be regulated. As I and my party see it, it is unreasonable to select a particular group and say that this group should be subject to completely different rules from other asylum seekers. This also means that you have to see that there are people who come here not only because they have to but because they actually want – people who come to Sweden to work here. It is not reasonable that Sweden has such extremely long processing times for labour migration. Nor is it reasonable for people who are allowed to stay in Sweden to work here – people who are doing their own thing, paying taxes and having serious employers – to be forced to leave Sweden as a result of some minor mistake that perhaps not even the current one but a former employer has done. There is an inconsistency and unpredictability in our rules on migration, both on the asylum side and on the labour immigration side, which is very worrying. It hits people who are fleeing war and oppression today, but it just as well hits people who are high-performance and well-educated, for example IT engineers who come to Sweden to help our growth and business. This whole system needs to be reviewed, and we have a great responsibility in this House to ensure that Sweden has a sustainable and workable migration policy for the future. As I began my speech with, I refer, moreover, to our budget motion by the Liberals and to our motion on Category 8.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-204	Madam President, I would like So today we are debating the budget for Category 8 Migration. In recent years, major changes have taken place in the Finnish Immigration Service's operations. In 2015, 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden, with long processing times as a result. Since then, the need for protection has not diminished, but fewer and fewer people reach Sweden, mainly because of border controls and restrictive rules in our surrounding world. The Green Party wants to see a more humane policy in which we take responsibility for each other and stand up for the right of asylum. Seeking asylum is a human right. All countries need to take greater responsibility to deal with this global issue of the future. We need to ensure a legal and rapid asylum process, a good reception and a rapid establishment. We need a stable, legally secure and humane regulatory framework that allows people to reunite with their families and that severely vulnerable people are more likely to stay for humanitarian reasons. People on the run should be treated with respect, not with suspicion. Human rights must be defended. In dealing with the budget, Parliament has not supported the transitional budget's budgetary framework, but instead the proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. This means that a budget has been passed containing slaughtered climate action and major tax cuts. At the moment, the climate summit is taking place in Katowice, and at the same time the Christian Democrats and the Moderates are making it cheaper to release carbon dioxide. It's unbelievable. When we know that we have 10 to 15 years to reverse developments in order not to cause a global climate disaster, it is striking that the bourgeois parties act in this way. For the migration budget, the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats also have dramatic and completely ill-considered consequences. The Moderates and Christian Democrats cut by 1.1 billion on the Migration Board's funding. Perhaps the idea is to show order or want to pursue a tight migration policy, but the consequences are the opposite. This will lead to complete disorder and disorder and increase costs for the State, not reduced. If 1.1 billion is cut next year, the processing times will be longer. In addition, people will have to be laid off in the coming years to be reinstated next year. When processing times are longer, increased costs in the form of compensation to municipalities, residents and day-to-day compensation will also increase over a longer period of time. Instead of a reduction of 1 billion, the so-called savings on the stand will lead to an increase of 1 billion. All of this the Moderates and Christian Democrats know. The committee has prepared the budget and invited the relevant authorities to report on the impact of their draft budget. Furthermore, in a letter to the members of the committee, the Migration Board has made clear the consequences of the major cuts: Too tight funding would also have the absurd effect that we would have to lay off a great many employees in 2019 and then have to recruit again in 2020 to use the planned envelope. That cannot be the legislator's intention with the budgetary decision. In our latest forecast, we have presented the consequences of too small an allocation to the administrative allocation. The queues, the processing times and the number of participants in the reception system would increase very strongly in the coming years," says the Migration Agency. The consequences of the Moderate and Christian Democrats' proposals are therefore well known to the whole committee, including M and KD. This makes the whole thing even more spectacular. M and KD therefore choose to proceed with a proposal which they themselves know leads to increased processing times, absurd redundancies and increased costs for the state. In addition, longer waiting periods will affect people waiting for different types of residence permits. It slows down establishment and impairs mental health. The time of anxiety and uncertainty will again be long for large groups. Government formation is not yet complete, and although KD and M have presented their own budget in the meantime, there are of course great opportunities for a future government to make the necessary changes through an additional budget now, and that will be necessary. Sweden needs a government that takes politics more seriously than this. Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants a more humane migration policy. We welcome the steps we have already taken in the discussions on a new government with S, C and L. Both a green tax shift and an increased right to family reunification are urgent reforms that are worth building on. The Green Party wants to work to ensure that vulnerable people are allowed to stay, for a better situation for unaccompanied minors, for a more legally secure asylum process and shorter processing times. We protect Sweden's open regulations for labour migration. The draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats is a manslaughter act and a trap. And even though they themselves know the consequences of their budget, they choose not to redistribute resources. As our proposal for the financial framework did not go through, I refer to the joint specific opinion of S, V and MP.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-218	Madam President, I would like There are several speakers before me in this speaker's chair today who have pointed out the simple fact that it has been a very turbulent time in migration policy in recent years, and it is difficult to disagree with that. There have been almost unprecedented major changes. I cannot recall any other policy area in which the various castes have been so numerous and so abrupt for such a short time. We often talk about the peak year of 2015 and that it is behind us. But if you are going to make a more accurate description, you have to say at the same time that it is not just about 2015, but what we have experienced in recent years is something that has been built up over the years. In 2014, 80 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden, in 2016 30 000 and in 2017 almost the same number. This means that during this limited period, Sweden has received 300 000 people who have applied for asylum in our country. You can think what you want about it, that there are too many or that there are too few. But let us all agree that from a historical point of view this is something quite unique. Our country has never before experienced such a high reception. Of course this affects society. It affects a wide range of institutions, municipalities, authorities, religious communities, civil society, individuals– yes, anyone who has been involved in working with this in one way or another. We are facing huge challenges in this area, to which I shall return shortly. We have a long list of very serious problems. But maybe we should stop for a second at the simple fact that very much has happened also has been done very well. A great many people have worked extremely hard, not least civil society, individual people, to make this work. They are worthy of all gratitude and appreciation for it. As I said, it has also been a time of controversy politically. After all, we met in 2015, at the government's initiative, I would say, a joint agreement on migration policy. The agreement did not go as far as we Moderates had wished. We put forward proposals on, for example, a supply requirement in the event of family immigration, which is precisely a supply requirement and nothing else. But it was still a little bit along the way. Now that we can sum up what has happened over the last three years, we can see that a great deal of what we took in hand on has actually been introduced. But we are waiting for a lot of the other things that we from the Alliance brought forward, such as mandatory social information for asylum seekers. I find it remarkable that the government, despite having had three years, has still not even been able to present a proposal to put on the table of Parliament. Then came the temporary law, which expires this summer. This illustrates what several others from the Alliance have also said from here, that twitching is a problem in migration policy. We all remember what it sounded like in Sergel's square: Europe would not build any walls. A few weeks later, we had a migration policy, as it has been described, at the lowest level of the European Union, which it is not. We had a long discussion about shadow society and expulsions. Everyone agreed that a no would be a no– at least most of us agreed on that. Then it was changed so that one or two did not turn out to be one, but only for a few. Madam President, this twitching creates a wide range of problems, such as uncertainty for municipalities and authorities. It also creates uncertainty for individuals who go to our country, because you can never be sure what really applies in Sweden. We in the Moderates have said that there is a need for a migration policy that lasts over time. We have therefore pointed out the need to reach a cross-block agreement here in Parliament. We want it to be implemented exactly as we tend to deal with difficult issues such as this, in parliamentary investigations, where together we try to reason on something that lasts over time. This does not mean that everyone needs to be in such an agreement, but everyone should at least have the opportunity and have a seat around the table so that you can make your voice heard. We believe that this is a prerequisite for remedying the twitchiness and creating something that will hold. The Moderates will record several things in such an investigation, if it comes about. For example, we think it is extremely important that citizenship in Sweden means something for real. We want to highlight the importance of citizenship. It holds a society together and creates a fundamental community. Citizenship is also a receipt for the individual that he is fully part of the country that is his new home country. We think it is reasonable to extend the normal time and to make a little higher demands than today on what is needed to become a Swedish citizen. We also want to tighten up the supply requirement in the event of family immigration. It is a strange principle that various kinds of subsidies can be included in the supply requirement today. Then there is no real supply requirement. Of course, all parties must be prepared to compromise. I know that no party in this House has a single majority, so if you want something done, you have to be sensitive and open to compromises. That is what we in the Moderates want to record in a future negotiation. Until such an investigation is completed, we believe that the temporary law should be extended in its present form. Madam President, I would like The draft budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which received support from the Committee on Finance, contains a great deal of changes compared to the proposal put forward by the transitional government. Most of it is about the fact that we do not think that expenditure can only be prolonged. We are making a great deal of savings that the Red-Green Government had announced. In this, for example, there are savings on the Migration Agency. We think this is natural in view of the fact that 21 000 people have gone to Sweden this year. As I have just mentioned, there were 163 000 in the peak year 2015. It would be strange if this did not reflect the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service. Of course, it is always easy to be generous, especially when it comes to other people's money. However, the Moderates are careful about taxpayers' money. They should be used in the most effective way. We also give priority to other activities, such as the police, defence and reduced taxes on labour for ordinary income earners. This is necessary in order for integration to work better. We also carry out an investment of SEK 100 million to expand the detention operations. The fact that no more forceful action has been taken in this area is one of the biggest mistakes of this government in migration policy during its term of office, I think. Today you can see a growing shadow society. According to the estimates that exist today, perhaps 80 000, 90 000 or 100 000 people live in Sweden without a permit in a way where really everyone is just losers. The Moderates spend SEK 100 million on this with an assignment to the Migration Agency to expand the detention operation very soon. We believe that this is crucial to getting this problem right. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-237	Madam President, I would like As a Swedish democrat, they made me very happy to listen to this speech. There were wordings that could almost have been taken from our migration policy programme, not least what was about the importance of citizenship in keeping society together. However, as I and most of the other parties in this House have put forward in the past, the budget on the table today does not go together. The decrease doesn't add up. Johan Forssell concluded his speech by talking about an investment of 100 million to go to detention sites. The Gd of the Migration Board has been extremely clear that it will not be possible to implement this if you make as drastic reductions as you propose and as a result of this budget. I have read in articles that Johan Forssell talked about the importance of the Migration Agency increasing its productivity. I wonder how this drastic reduction is going to happen. During this year about 2 000 people have been fired, saving 800 million. The current budget reduction is 1.1 billion, which means a further 2 200 people if the same costs are involved. However, we have been told that it is about people with even longer notice periods, because they have worked for a long time and are experienced. Of course, this will also have a major impact on productivity. The question I want to ask mainly concerns the distribution and what will increase. The Finnish Immigration Service is clear about labour migration issues. This is something that the Moderates are close to heart, but these matters will have to wait. And how do the Moderates intend to ensure that this does not happen if one is not government?
i-Dt1TsVnGuR9fJ4xfMW57z1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the question! Let's back up the tape something. You have to be careful. What we have put forward and for which we have also received Parliament's support is not about saving a real proposal, but about a prolonged budget. I believe that any government that would not have been a transitional government would have made an impression here. Of course, it would have been different depending on who was in such a government. I am just saying this so that we know what we are talking about. The basis of this is that the Migration Agency is facing a completely different situation from what it has done earlier this year. As I said in my speech, 21 000 people will have applied for asylum this year. The other year, there were 163,000. It goes without saying to me that it also affects the resources you provide an authority if you want to protect taxpayers' money. As legislators, we have a responsibility to keep asking the question: where is the taxpayers' money most useful? I think it is more reasonable to give priority to important welfare activities, such as police, defence and other things. Moreover, this does not come as news for the Migration Agency. The previous government has given this message, so the work has had plenty of time to plan for this. The answer to Paula Bieler's question is that the key is precisely productivity. It is easy to spend new money from politics all the time. But how do we use the funds that already exist? I am concerned that the Migration Board's productivity has decreased, despite the fact that it has received considerably more money. Last year its productivity was 37 per cent lower than the forecast presented for 2017. Productivity is significantly lower than it has been throughout the period 2012-2017. I believe that the Migration Agency and, above all, its management have a very important task ahead of them in increasing productivity.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-249	Madam President, I would like I and the Migration Board's management agree that productivity needs to increase and that efficiency improvements need to be implemented. This is very clear also from the Migration Agency. It is also clear that there is still no balance. As drastic cuts as this are going to mean chaos in the number of employees you have. It is not feasible to focus on increased productivity and efficiency if you are forced to fire another 2,000 people or even more when you have already got rid of a third of your employees in just over two years. I didn't get an answer to my question. What is expected to increase in particular is the waiting time for labour immigrants. One could certainly control this by means of regulatory letters, and we know that the Moderates are in favour of different priorities. But what happens then? Well, asylum seekers will have to wait longer, and that is precisely what is most costly. What is the overall view of long-term savings that are sustainable with this budget?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-253	Madam President, I would like Unlike Paula Bieler, I do not see a precise link between higher funding and higher efficiency. We really see the opposite in society. The funding for the Finnish Immigration Service has increased very strongly. Productivity has fallen very sharply. I am serious when I say that this is a management issue for the Migration Agency. You have to recreate a culture where you make more decisions. For example, we can make a comparison with our eastern neighbour Finland, where I think a decision-maker makes four decisions a week. In Sweden, according to an internal audit report from the Finnish Immigration Service, the corresponding figure is a decision. There is therefore a very important task for the agency to carry out. We will not be able to solve this by simply passively looking at and adding more funds. This is a matter of governance on the authority, and it is of course the task of the next government to ensure, for example by means of regulatory letters, that there is order of business. As politicians, we must be able to set priorities. Every crown we put on one thing is a crown that could have gone to something else.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-256	Madam President, I would like I have a similar question that I would like to ask Johan Forssell. It is because even if Johan Forssell wants to say that it would be a question of governance, we have it black and white: We know that the proposal that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have put in the Riksdag will entail increased costs for the state. Although the Migration Board is cut by 1.1 billion, this will mean that waiting times will be longer with higher costs as a result. In fact, I can't get it together when Johan Forssell tries to say that the Moderates want to protect taxpayers' money or prioritise other things, because it will be just the opposite effect. This is not just a question of governance or, for that matter, the possibility of increasing productivity; it is about the need to lay off administrators. It will simply not be possible to carry out that activity. This is only part of a number of unreasonable consequences of the Moderates' budget, where, for example, too little money has been allocated to an increased number of defence sites despite the desire to have more detention. It just doesn't make sense. I would therefore like to ask Johan Forssell why the Moderates are moving forward with this proposal, which will entail increased costs for the state, while trying to suggest that it would mean the opposite.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Maria Ferm, for the question! I can see that this is an issue that attracts great interest from the Left Party, the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats. Looks like you guys found each other here. For me, it is again the case that I want to protect taxpayers' money. I keep asking myself where taxpayers' money is most useful. We have a development where the number of asylum seekers this year is one seventh of what it was the peak year 2015 – one seventh! Yet it is required that we should next if not completely keep the old suit so at least reduce it very little. I ask myself: when there are so many fewer asylum seekers in Sweden, is it really reasonable that we should keep this type of very large structures that have been expanded in a very short time? I think there are other and more reasonable things to prioritise. As I have pointed out in my previous reply and I am happy to repeat, there is a problem at the Migration Agency with the lack of productivity. These are figures that come from the authority itself. In other words, the product industry has fallen by 37% against the budget it presented itself. Productivity is significantly lower than in the whole period 2012-2017 with the exception of one year. I would therefore like us not only to focus this debate on how much money we are spending, but also on what the authority is doing with the money it receives. Here are some examples that I mentioned from Finland, for example, where you manage to make four times more decisions than in Sweden and that I think we can be inspired by. This is a management issue for the Migration Agency and something that I hope the next government will deal with seriously. With regard to detention centres, I would just like to comment on the fact that we are adding 100 million in addition to what the government has presented.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-265	Mr President, I would like to In fact, when the processing times increase, which they will do if you do this major cut in the Migration Agency's appropriations, it will lead to increased costs, both for replacing municipalities and for people to live in the reception system for a longer period of time and then need daily compensation as well as for housing costs to be higher. Long waiting periods also lead to more complex asylum cases. New circumstances may arise that simply take longer, which also leads to a deterioration in the health of those who are in this uncertainty for a very long time. If waiting times are again increased so that they are as long as before, we will face enormous challenges over many years. These are challenges which, in themselves, will increase costs even more and also reduce productivity, as new circumstances mean that it will take longer.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-267	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it should be noted that the savings we are making are those presented by the Red-Green Government before it became a transitional government. I assume, therefore, that there has been a discussion in Maria Ferms's party on this. Yet you have chosen to stand behind this in the then government when it was sent to the Migration Agency. I also note that the issue of effectiveness is completely absent from the Green Party's view on this. It's just about how much of the taxpayers' money you give to an authority and not a word that you can actually make more decisions and develop things and make them better. As a moderate, I want to protect taxpayers' money and therefore have a different perspective on it, and I see that if the Migration Agency is unable to improve its productivity, then changes must be made. I stand for the fact that we want to reduce the costs to the Migration Agency and note that the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party have a different view on this issue.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-270	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision. In recent years we have seen a wave of humanity sweeping over our country when the situation was most strained with people who came to our country to seek asylum. In fact, the efforts of volunteers and civil society were directly crucial to the fact that we managed the situation as well as we did. We can and should be proud of the responsibility that Sweden has taken. However, the challenges will continue for many years to come. If we are to have a Sweden where we live with each other and not next to each other, we need political decisions in which, within the framework of regulated immigration, we launch a reform agenda that breaks long-term exclusion, with integration from day one. The Christian Democrats therefore advocate a continued tight migration policy over the next few years, and we are doing so in order to meet the challenges of integration policy. We must tackle exclusion, vulnerability, housing shortages and the gap between foreign and domestic born on the labour market. There is also a need for earmarked actions. The Moderates and Christian Democrats have therefore chosen to extend the reinforcement by SEK 195 million that has taken place to the municipalities for the work on unaccompanied young asylum seekers. Legally secure migration policy is central. We will make an individual assessment of each application, and those who have received a negative decision on their asylum application will also leave the country. That is why, in our common budget, we have also allocated EUR 100 million more to create more detention centres. There is already a great lack of detention centres and we know that more places will be needed in the coming years. Deviation is not good for either the individual or society. I believe that, in recent weeks, everyone in this House has read articles on how young men joined criminal gangs in order to survive. They have in Malmö young boys who sell their body in order to get food in the stomach and shelter over their heads. Moreover, there is a clear risk that we will have shadow societies that are emerging with overcrowding, social vulnerability and illegal work. It is my firm belief that trust and legitimacy for a legally secure asylum law and our regulated migration policy rest on the fact that there must be a definite difference and consequence of a few yes or no. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats have repeatedly stated that children should not be kept separate from their parents. From a Christian-democratic point of view, therefore, this family reunification is something we have driven, driven and will continue to pursue. Almost exactly a month ago, on November 14, the Migration Court of Appeal took a very important decision for family reunification concerning a small eight-year-old boy who wanted to be reunited with his parents and siblings who are still in Syria. The boy had been granted a temporary residence permit as an alternative protection person when he came with his relatives to Sweden. The Migration Court of Appeal considered that a refusal of family members to obtain a residence permit was not deemed to be proportionate to the government's stated objective of limiting the number of asylum seekers for a period of time. The Migration Court of Appeal considered that particular importance should be attached to the principle of giving priority to the best interests of the child. I believe that the decision of the Court of Migration increases the possibilities because we are now becoming more people who see that we need to create room for family reunification that is in line with the conventions that Sweden has signed and that we must comply with and thus honour. We Christian Democrats believe that we have every reason to review the unclear family reunification acquis when the temporary law is to be replaced by a permanent law. We want to see broad political support here. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise an issue that is naturally very close to my heart, namely that of giving converts the protection they are reasonably supposed to receive. Here it does not work in Sweden. Just over a month ago, a young Afghan man took his own life. After the third rejection, he couldn't take it anymore. His faith in Jesus Kristus as his personal savior was judged by the Migration Work as not being genuine. So it didn't count. As a priest and parishioner, I have met on several occasions people who, when they came to Sweden and heard the message of the gospel, believed. They have entered congregations and participated in religious services, Bible studies, and other activities. They have been baptized, and they have openly told of their newfound faith. For me, therefore, it is directly strange that the testimony of priests and pastors weighs so easily or not at all when it is to be determined whether a person's conversion is genuine or not. There is absolute conversion that is only lip service that is said because you want to stay in Sweden. But, and this is a very crucial and important but: There are people who have converted when they have come to Sweden. That is why we need to create better procedures for this. Moreover, if the conversion takes place from Muslim to Christian faith, such conversion is extremely serious. This applies not least if the converter has been open to conversion. I have in my absolute vicinity people who have converted and who every day live under threat. The freedom of religion that we talk so beautifully about in Sweden does not apply to them. For those asylum seekers who come to another faith when they are here in Sweden, we must ensure that it is weighed in a much clearer and better way than has been the case so far. We must not make any more mistakes. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-286	Mr President, I would like to I agree with most of Mr Eklind's speech. I'd like to start by saying that. But I think we need to sort out what's going on with the Christian Democrats and family reunification. In the budget motion presented by the Christian Democrats, SEK 370 million is set aside for family reunification. I am looking carefully at what has been agreed with the Moderates in the budget settlement, and I find nothing of this. I assume that the Christian Democrats have released their demand for families with children to be reunited. If so, it is very troubling. It is the Liberals and the Christian Democrats who have set aside budgetary resources for this and who have pursued this in the last parliamentary term, while all six other parties have said one thing but have done something else. I would like clarification. What applies to this issue? Can we count on the Christian Democrats, together with us in the Liberals, now to push for family reunification?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik, for the question! If you had listened to my speech, you would have heard that I clearly said that we have stood up and will continue to stand up for family reunification. This is an important issue for us Christian Democrats. The answer is yes, we will continue to push for family reunification. That's what we're going to do in the talks we're going to hold. I pointed out in my speech that we must have something that comes after this temporary law. When it is to be replaced by something new, we Christian Democrats want to see that family reunification is included and that it also applies to those who are granted temporary residence permits. The answer is yes.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-291	Mr President, I would like to This makes me very concerned. When the temporary law came, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and also the Center Party were very clear that we are protecting family reunification. Then the Christian Democrats and Liberals chose to set aside funds in all our budgets for this. The Center Party didn't. But the Liberals and Christian Democrats had budgetary resources set aside for family reunification even during the period of the temporary law. I understand that the Christian Democrats' message here is that they have sold out the issue of family reunification, and then they will pursue it in future negotiations. It could take years. For next year, that means that in your budget you say 370 million. But in the agreement with the Moderates, it's completely gone.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-293	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting, Fredrik, that you stand and say as you do for the simple reason that I looked at your budget. There is not a crown set aside for family reunification in the Liberals' budget options. The proposal we now have with the Moderates is that the temporary law that we now have should be replaced by a permanent law. Then my message to you and to all of the following: The Christian Democrats' message has previously been that we are running this, and we will continue to drive it. We want to see family reunification included. Not least what I mentioned in my speech is that the rules of the game for that were slightly changed on 14 November. It is more difficult to argue that the position that family reunification in the form that you and I argue for should not exist. It is contrary to conventions – the European Convention and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I believe that the conditions for us to get through family reunification that you and I now want have reasonably increased.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-296	Mr President, I would like to The reality and rhetoric were mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair. My reality is that this is my first speech at all. My reality is that since 2003 and right up to the week before the opening of Parliament, i.e. for 15 years, I have worked with migrants and mainly unaccompanied children and young people. It has been all kinds of people from at least thirty different countries. Some have fled from something; others have rather wanted to move to Sweden. If it is something that is common to everyone that I have met, it is the desire for a rapid, transparent and clear asylum investigation. Long waiting times and constantly new bids on which laws and rules apply create uncertainty, insecurity and, in some cases, abandonment. My experience is that whatever the decision, it's always better to know than to wait. Mr President, I would like to In general, we in the Swedish Democrats agree with the Moderates and Christian Democrats quite a lot. We all want order in migration policy, and we all understand that for too many years the migration budget has been too large and needs to be drastically reduced. Unfortunately, however, there are some things in the budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats that have a negative impact on waiting times and that reinforce both injustice and uncertainty. As Paula Bieler and several others in this House have already mentioned, the drastic reduction of funds to the Migration Agency will inevitably mean even longer waiting times, whether it is a matter of own asylum process or a matter of affiliation. The Swedish Democrats obviously want a thorough plan to reduce the costs of migration radically in the long term, but this reduction also requires an initial effort. The grant that M and KD give to the Migration Agency risks having exactly the opposite effect. It is certainly a saving today, but it means increased balances, longer processing times and, ultimately, a considerable cost-cutting in the coming years. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and Christian Democrats also want to extend the temporary support of SEK 195 million that has been available for those municipalities that want to allow young adult men to enjoy benefits intended for children. This is therefore a matter of money that the municipalities can choose to apply for in order to allow young men of age to stay in accommodation suitable for children. Of course, conditions should not vary between asylum seekers who become adults during the asylum process and those who are of age when they arrive here. Once again, clarity is important. The one who is a child is a child. The person who is of age is of age. I think everyone knows that the limit is at the age of 18. During my years in the industry, I have rarely heard young people question clear and easy to understand rules as long as you know what applies and as long as you know that the same rules apply to everyone. Thus, the 195 million paid to municipalities is basically based on a system error, which should be addressed. It is a great saving that is both logical and necessary. Mr President, I would like to The initiative that the Swedish Democrats want to make at the Migration Agency also brings more absolutely necessary benefits. This means, for example, that more gunpowder can be added to information on labour immigration rules and insurance policies for both employers and potential workers. The fact that this information is better and clearer is something that is being asked for from many quarters. This also means that processing times for vital labour migration can be shortened, which benefits the entire Swedish economy. The figures reported by the Finnish Immigration Service point to a significantly extended decision-making period if the funds of the Moderates and Christian Democrats are maintained: From today's total of around 180 000 open cases to over 700,000 in 2021. We find it unreasonable that long queue periods due to asylum applications and extensions should be crucial for Swedish companies to be able to employ the right skills in the right time. Johan Forssell mentioned earlier the productivity and efficiency of the Migration Agency. In order to be able to take the necessary measures, experienced and effective administrators and decision-makers are still needed at the Finnish Immigration Service. It is necessary to slow down the huge staff turnover that has been at the Migration Agency since 2015. After all, order and order in migration policy also require order and care for the employees of the Finnish Immigration Service. Productivity and efficiency will not increase with a high turnover of staff; I believe that everyone agrees on this. Mr President, I would like to It is about investing in the right things to be able to save on the right things later. This can be done within the framework of the budget that has been adopted. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be rejected and for the reservation to be approved.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-308	Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament and possible web viewers! I would like to take my point of departure in reality. In the migration debate, year after year we have talked about the system errors we have. There is a great awareness in all eight parties of the system errors we have. Then it's a question of whether you want to talk about them, admit them or grab them. Migration is a consequence of things somewhere else on our planet not working. These could be wars, tragedies, climate crises, states attacking their civilian population, civil war, etc. We always hear the figure of 60 million refugees in our world. They are correct; there are about 68 million refugees. Some of them have crossed borders, and some of them are internally displaced persons. As everyone here has noted, peace talks are taking place between the Yemeni state, Yemen, and the Huthirebelles. Let me tell you why I am taking this example. In this conflict, more than 14 million internally displaced persons are suffering and are at risk of dying of starvation and lack of water. They risk dying as a result of simple diseases. But the efforts in this House for these lives are not so great. At the same time, we have groups of people who have come to Sweden year after year – and it's not just a specific group, it's about individuals and people – where we know that there are people who haven't truthfully clarified their identity. They do not have grounds for asylum, and they do not have the grounds for protection required by the legal framework we have. Then we are prepared to compromise our regulations. Then there is the time and the strength to come up with a temporary solution. At the same time, they argue that this is humanism and humanity. But when reality comes up and citizens see that rhetoric and reality and how we act in the Swedish parliament do not go together, confidence in Swedish migration policy also decreases. This means that the tolerance for those who need to come to Sweden in five, ten or twenty years' time will be considerably less because of how we act today and how we acted yesterday. Mr President, I would like to I would like to send this to the House: there are always consequences of the decisions it makes. Confidence in Swedish migration policy among the Swedish public is very low. We are on our way to the bottom if we do nothing in this House. We need to be consistent. We need to be clear. A yes should be a yes, and a no should be a no. If you have lied and have not made your identity likely, you have also violated the regulations, and then you also have no reason to stay in Sweden. If you've got a no, we'll have an effective return. We must have a predictable law so that those who come to Sweden can have peace and quiet and feel safe during their asylum process and so that the waiting time will not tarnish them. That is also an aspect. It's humanity for real. I'll meet these people when I go to the Armenian church. Most have fled Syria, IS and the repression of the regime. I meet them and hear about what they are in and have been in uncertainty because the law is not predictable. The long waiting period is killing them. We'll be very quick to give a yes, but we'll be just as quick to give a no. And at the same time, we'll be legally sure. I would like to send again to this House, Mr President, that if we return to the migration policy we have had and have a rhetoric where we talk only about humanism and humanity, we betray those in greatest need of our humanity, believe me. Just look at what the majority of those who have come to Sweden are. The government said they have a feminist foreign policy. Yes, but the majority of those who have come to Sweden are men. In fact, however, it is women and children in the refugee camps in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and Yemen who are the victims of sexual harassment and the like. You can shake your head at this, but you can't deny reality. Mr President, I would like to If Sweden does not take greater international responsibility in the form of redirecting its aid and participating in reconstruction in these countries, where internal conflicts are taking place, in combination with military efforts, other countries will collapse. Many people talk about Syria, but no one is talking about Jordan, Lebanon or Iraq which, because of the pressure that comes in the form of refugee flows, can go through a collapse of the state. Do people in this House know that there have been mass protests in Jordan? Maybe, maybe not. Lebanon is like a powder keg. Lebanon itself has gone through a civil war in the 1970s. Turkey is becoming increasingly authoritarian. Iraq lost much of its territory for several years, and Iraq's second largest city was invaded by IS. We need to do a global surveillance. We can't just look at home. Migration policy is a responsibility both at home and internationally. But for this to go together and for us to be able to have the confidence of the citizens and be a country open to reception, but also to take our international responsibility, we must also have a tight migration policy. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-321	Mr President, I would like to This time I am not going to talk much about productivity and applications to the Migration Agency, because I do not seem to get any answers. I can only note that our re-priorities fall within the framework put forward by the Moderates and the KD. We have adjusted them so that efforts can still be made in other policy areas. What made me ask for the floor here is linked to what Mr Arin began his speech with when he spoke about the need for clarity, that a no should be a no and that it should result in a no if you have not made your identity likely. Johan Forssell said that the temporary law should be extended in its current form as the current design also includes the re-debated so-called secondary school law or the upper secondary school amnesty. The window for applying for a new residence permit is certainly closed, but the law also contains possibilities for extensions where people who have not made their identity likely will thus have all the opportunities to stay in the country anyway. I therefore have a straight question for the Moderates, and it is whether they really think this should remain in an extension of the temporary law.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-324	Mr President, I would like to With regard to Paula Bieler's question as to whether we should have an extension of the Upper Secondary Education Act, the Moderates' position has been that the Upper Secondary Education Act was wrong and should not have been voted through in this House. Now we have this, and the High School Act is dependent on the temporary law. In order not to precede how the party will set up its policy, I choose that our spokesperson Johan Forssell and the party leadership may take that question. But if you ask me, I can say that I think we need a temporary law not to go back to the legislation we had before, because then there will be chaos. We stand here debating the cuts that will have to be made at the Migration Agency, but there will be a petitess in this context. Believe me, in that case we will have a bigger problem ahead of us. The most important thing now is to ensure that we get a temporary law, that is, an extension, and then a parliamentary investigation that gives us a predictability in Swedish migration policy. Regardless of which government constellation or majority there will be here in the Swedish parliament, we have predictability and long-termness and get rid of all twitchiness. J ag believes that the staff of the Migration Board and our citizens would appreciate predictability and not twitchiness and short-term attempts at winning political points in this House.
i-QrQQTcEHruwaxaCzF1S7kN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Arin, for that answer. I totally agree with you that you need temporary legislation. In our committee motion on the subject, and even in the party motion, I believe, we have put forward proposals on how such legislation should be drafted. Nevertheless, I find it interesting that I am not getting a clear answer from the Moderates as to whether or not people who have not been able to make their identity likely should be allowed to stay, or not just because of the fact that the then majority of the former Parliament voted through a very criticised law that is very criticised by the very two parties that have now passed their budget. I look forward to seeing the proposal put on the table, when it is put on the table and how it is put on the table, and I also look forward to seeing what we will have to work on then.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-328	Mr President, I would like to My answer is very simple. The Moderates think, and thought, that the secondary school law was wrong and should not have been voted through. We should not have such twitchiness in our legislation. A yes is a yes and a no is a no. If you have not made your identity likely, you should also return to the country you come from.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-330	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is now to debate Category 18 Housing, Building and Consumer Policy. Normally, we in this House would have debated a budget proposal and the political proposals of a number of other parties. But this year it's a little different. As we have a transitional government, we also have a transitional budget. A budget is basically intended to be presented when a new government is in place. It is then that the idea is for us to have a budget that will also provide a political guideline for the coming years. Now we do not have it, but we have a transitional budget. The idea of the transitional government has been to ensure that the machinery can actually continue. It is about ensuring that the state and municipalities are able to cope with the continuing rule. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the budget issue has become part of the political game. The budget has become a way of usurping government power. The budgetary process and the budget that we are now debating have been used to make an impression on their policies. The budget on which we decided this week has been decided and passed by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It is the three parties that are behind the budget that will most likely gain a majority and which will have a clear impact on Swedish politics in the coming year. That is clear right-wing politics. It is very real policy rather than giving a future government, which hopefully will, the opportunity and space to clearly profile what it wants to do. It is a pity that we are in the situation of focusing on a number of procedural issues rather than on getting a government in place. I am particularly sad to see that the budget that will most likely go through will mean major cuts in welfare and, at the same time, fairly large unfair tax cuts. The job tax deduction that was introduced, but which is not dealt with in this area of expenditure, will mean that the lowest income earners will receive a tax reduction of approximately SEK 50 per month. At the same time, many of the m who have very high incomes will have a tax cut of nearly SEK 5 000 in a whole year. I think Sweden can do better. Above all, Sweden had felt good from a better profile. Hopefully we will have a government with such a profile forward. Mr President, I would like to Earlier this week, Parliament has decided on the spending framework and revenue in the state budget based on the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Following Wednesday's decision, the spending frameworks in this area are different from those proposed by the majority. That is why we have set out our position in a separate opinion. And according to practice, we will not take part in the decision. Mr President, I would like to During the previous term of office, the government has made a historic effort in the area of housing policy. We have raised over 6 billion annually to get the housing building started. This, together with strong economic activity and high demand, has resulted in a record housing building. The large housing building that we are seeing today will mean that the government's target of building more than 250 000 homes by 2020 will be met. Indeed, during the period 2015 – 2018, the construction of over 230,000 homes will have started. The construction of over 230 000 homes will have started for four years. That is more than what began to be built during eight years of bourgeois rule. The construction of some 220 000 dwellings was then started. A great deal of the construction of these homes can surely result from economic activity and a number of other things. But the fact is that during four years of red-green rule we have achieved that more housing could be built than was done during eight years of bourgeois rule. It is basically a matter of politics. In 2007, housing construction fell sharply due to a number of national and municipal decisions. We will see this again. We are already seeing a decline in housing construction in the city of Stockholm, which is now under bourgeois rule. Political decisions mean removing the construction of rental properties and focusing instead on conversions. Järfälla municipality, which is an alliance governed by SD, is another example. It has decided to put all rental projects in a grind bag. Järfällahus, a number of private builders and SKB's tenancy project are all deleted. A new study should be carried out on whether it is better to build apartments in those areas. We see that bourgeois municipalities, as the previous bourgeois government did, do not in any way give priority to the construction of housing. It becomes clear when the budget deletes virtually all the incentives for housing construction that exist to get both construction companies and municipalities to focus on building. At the same time, there is not a single reform or stimulus that could lead to an increase in housing. Today we have a very large housing shortage. Boverket believes that it would have to be built between 50 000 and 70 000 homes each year to meet the challenges we face. At present, there is no reform agenda at all from the bourgeois side. At the same time, we are seeing a decline in construction. We have satisfied the need that has existed for rather expensive housing. Now a new segment needs to be created. Therefore, I believe that investment aid and other incentives would have been excellent complements to meet the challenges we face now that the housing market is failing. But no such proposals are on the table today. I hope we will see such things in the future.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-343	Mr President, I would like to We should probably start by stating that Sweden does not have a transitional holiday just because we have a transitional government. Sweden has challenges that need to be addressed. That is why the Moderates and Christian Democrats have presented a budget based on the Alliance's reform agenda. It has also won approval in the Swedish Parliament. That draft budget is the first measure to get Sweden in general and housing policy in particular on the right foot, Mr President. There is bound to be some discussion about history. I think it is important to recall that when the Alliance handed over power in 2014, we handed over a significant increase in housing construction, thanks to the measures taken by the Alliance in the eight years of alliance. They weren't enough. I'm the first to admit that. But a great deal was done. And that was why we had a massive increase in construction. Now that the need for housing is greater than ever, this government is leaving a raging building. What we need is no more billions for private housing companies, Mr President. We need more housing. That is precisely why we need a reform agenda that deals with all of this. I note that the transitional government has acted precisely as a transitional government for four years. There has not really been a single sharp proposal to create more housing, except for a number of billions to be stopped in construction companies' pockets. I would like to ask Johan Löfstrand: Are you satisfied with what has been done over these four years? Or do you also realize that you could, should, and would have done a great deal more?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-349	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green turns for the budget. Of course I can understand that. One of the biggest reform budgets has been implemented in modern times. Tax cuts of over 20 billion mean that the low-income person receives 50 kroner a month in reduced tax. However, those who have the income that we Members of Parliament have receive almost SEK 5 000 in tax reductions per year. It's moderate politics. I therefore understand that this kind of policy is being pursued. What is sad, however, is that the budget that has been presented contains a lot of errors at the moment. And there are no impact assessments. Only yesterday, the Committee on Culture decided to take money from the libraries and give it to the museums, because they have not purchased card withdrawal devices so that they can charge in the museum entrances on 1 January. You might have thought about it a little before you put forward a budget. The idea is that a government should present a budget, and then you should have thought about whether, by 1 January, you have bought some short drawing machines for the museum entrances or if you have to pick money from the library business in order to pass the first three months. It's a very big patchwork, but of course it's moderate politics. You take from the poor and give to the rich. Finally, I would like to address the issue of housing. During this term of office, we have delivered 230 000 new homes that have begun to be produced. That is more than what began to be produced during eight years of bourgeois rule. Of course we have had the economic situation on our side, but there is still some kind of difference. It was twice as many as they built during eight years of bourgeois rule. I fear that we will have four lost years with a bourgeois budget.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-353	Mr President, I would like to It is as Johan Löfstrand says, that it is a government that will present a budget. That is why it is so strange that this government clings to itself, even though it has previously been promised that it will never rule with a bourgeois budget. Now you want to do it anyway. We say we need more and better paid cops, that's what we're betting on. We are cutting taxes on workers and pensioners, that is what we are investing in. We're strengthening our defenses, that's what we're betting on. We do not invest in ineffective, misdirected building subsidies for private companies. I would also like to remind Johan Löfstrand that during this week his party has made it clear that it is possible to abolish the military tax, and also next year. I find it extremely interesting given the breast tones that are being used here today. Again, bet on municipal welfare, not on ineffective building subsidies to construction companies!
i-73efc8c92f66b782-357	Mr President, I would like to I think Mats Green should read a little bit about how the Constitution works. It is not the case that the present transitional government is clinging. The present transitional government cannot resign. Then we'd be in limbo. The present transitional government cannot resign; it can only be replaced by a new government on the day it exists. Then I think that we should have focused on getting to a government rather than presenting a budget that will make it impossible for the future government that takes office – regardless of its political colour – to set out a new path for Sweden. Finally, I would like to say something about the housing issue. With a moderate government in the next four years of recession, there will be four lost years. There are no proposals and no reform agenda.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-359	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to take the floor, but it got a little weird here. I just want to make a few points. It is the market that governs how many homes are built. The whole world agrees that it is the market that rules and that it is the construction companies that build housing, not politicians that do. We are the prerequisites for building housing. If you talk to any expert on the housing market, they say that a housing reform was needed during the mandate that passed. But there was no housing reform. No political party should beat itself to the chest and say that you yourself were the reason why everything was built in the last four years, eight years or twelve years. I would also like to point out that the statistics say that it takes eight years from the idea to the housewarming party. If it were the case that the Social Democrats and this government – which I am not saying, because it is not true – are responsible for all the homes built in the last four years, it is, if it takes eight years, then the Alliance's credit. But I still think it's the market that controls how many homes are built. Then I would like to point out one more strange thing in Johan Löfstrand's speech. On 9 September, Sweden suddenly stopped building housing – you can sum it up – because the Alliance took power in Järfälla and Stockholm. It's a really weird rhetoric and a really weird way to talk. It sounds strange and odd to those who listen to this debate when it is said that limbo politicians live in another type of universe. I think we should relate to reality instead.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-363	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah, I'm related to reality. In Järfälla municipality, after the elections, which represented an alliance rule with the support of the Swedish Democrats, it was decided at the municipal level that the plans for Järfällahus, for the three private builders who had plans to build rental apartments and for SKB, should be put in a moth bag. Instead, an investigation was set up to investigate whether these building rights should instead go to housing projects. That's how the majority of Järfälla decided. Then it is the political decision that has led to a move from rental projects to stopping the projects and thinking about what is to be built. The City of Stockholm has also decided to stop a number of projects that would have been built with investment aid. Instead, they have gone out to consultants and asked: Who wants to reform? This is politics at the municipal level, and it is actually very important. I do not think it is the Social Democratic-led government that has contributed to the start of more than 230 000 homes over the last four years. It is not the merit of the Social Democratic-led government. It depends on the economy and many other things. Above all, many municipal representatives have punched their fists in the table and said: Now the municipality will invest! This has been done in Örebro, Uppsala, Linköping, Norrköping and in a number of other places. Together with a building bonus and investment aid, this has resulted in more housing.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-366	Mr President, I would like to When you heard Johan Löfstrand's speech, it was not the housing forms that were in focus, but the number of homes. That is why it is not true in Johan Löfstrand's speech. For me, it doesn't matter what form of living you have. Mixed and all kinds of accommodations are important. If the municipality of Järfälla, which is elected by the people, decides to build apartments instead of rentals – in itself, you already have quite a few rental apartments – I don't see it as a big problem. In addition, I think you need to calm down and calm down when you describe reality. In conclusion, if you want to talk about investment aid that has led to so many homes – which they have not done, because they had been built anyway – you have to note that those who have moved into housing have a much higher income than the average in the municipality. If you're going to bet on poor people that you talked to Mats Green about, that's not true either. After all, it is not poor people who have received money from your investment aid, but rich developers and people with high incomes.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-370	Mr President, I would like to I belong to a party that believes that we should have a general housing policy. The reason I want a general housing policy is that it ensures that there are mixed areas. Mixed areas create secure areas and allow people to grow. In the election campaign and very often otherwise Robert Hannah talks about his social pathos, which I think is great and which I respect and appreciate Robert Hannah for. But when we talk about housing policy, I do not think that the social pathos are always shining through. If we are to be able to build mixed houses and give weak groups the opportunity to choose, then we must build apartments and rental apartments. Above all, rental apartments that people can afford to live in must be built. Mixed neighbourhoods are only achieved by making political decisions.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-374	Mr President, I would like to By its decision of 12 December 2018, the Parliament has determined the total expenditure for category 18. Since the Swedish democrats' proposals for appropriations in the area of expenditure are above that level, we cannot reserve ourselves in favour of our proposal. I refer instead to our particular opinion. After the introductory words, I shall go on to say that we have now established the overall framework. The Swedish Democrats share in many areas the framework proposed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the motion that has been approved. Through this exercise, we can get through a series of funding for the judiciary, reduced appropriations for migration, increased funding for health care and strengthened the economy for the country's pensioners. These are important areas where we Swedish democrats agree with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. As far as Category 18 is concerned, we also share a range of sectoral decisions with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. For example, we are cutting back on the housing subsidy that the government has been doing over a four-year period. It is subsidies that have not really led to more people being able to get housing. We believe that these homes could have been built in many ways anyway. We have read that information has been produced that it is also not those with lower incomes who have been given access to these social housing, who should have a lower rent, but that it is precisely those with higher incomes who have received them. The system put forward by the government has thus not had the intended function. We also know that Sweden's construction industries with several companies and industries have also been negatively opposed to the government's housing subsidies. Like them, we believe that this means that some construction companies are waiting for decisions on subsidies instead of building. Then we will not have a market where one can always build under the same conditions. One time you get subsidies and subsidies, the other time they are removed. It is also not unknown to construction companies, municipalities and voters in Sweden that during this term of office we have a majority that is negatively opposed to building subsidies. That is why it cannot be very unexpected that we now have a budget which reduces appropriations in this particular area. Construction subsidies are also a costly reform which means that we have not been able to invest in other areas; we have spent so much money on this. We think there are other areas that are more important to prioritise. There are other proposals that could mean that we get the construction even more started and maintain a higher build rate. It is not always subsidy policy that is the way forward. We believe more in providing better conditions for smaller construction companies to build, participate in procurements and strengthen their own financial conditions. Private persons must also have the opportunity to buy a dwelling or rent the dwellings available on the market. In this context, it is important to press prices – both rents and sales prices – so that more people can access the housing that is being built. That's where the focus should be. We also need to focus on building more secure residential areas. We need to focus on creating conditions for pleasant environments with beautiful homes and beautiful residential areas. The focus should not only be on building but also on what we build in this situation. We need to strengthen the weaker households. We believe that it is more important to spend appropriations on housing allowance and housing supplement rather than introducing other expensive variations to bring down housing costs for weaker households. We also need to see a clearer link to the infrastructure. We have talked about an infrastructure and housing preparation that could develop better conditions for connecting infrastructure and housing construction. This is something that naturally goes hand in hand. We believe that today there are better conditions for increasing construction. We also believe that we can look at various proposals and models that exist today. One example is the Stockholm Arc, which shows that you can connect work commuting, housing construction and the outer city centres, where you can densify and create attractive areas to build on instead of building in areas where you have higher land costs. Above all, however, we need to look at the impact of migration policy on housing policy. After all, the Swedish Democrats have proposed greater funding for the return of those who have been refused their asylum application. If we look at the figures from previous years, we see that it is an extremely large proportion that has been granted a residence permit in Sweden. In 2018, the forecast is approximately 133,000 people. At the same time, we have completed 54 500 homes. It is being built, completed and started less housing than it is being granted a residence permit in Sweden today. It is not a development that allows us to achieve a balance in the housing market. So the most important reform in this area is actually a tighter migration policy.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-388	Mr President, I would like to When you read the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats, it is difficult to understand what they really want. But in his speech Roger Hedlund takes up a number of things that give the impression that the housing policy of the Swedish Democrats is about that you are not in favour of any kind of state interference, but that you want the market to solve it. It will be run by smaller companies, and more will own their housing. This seems to be the reform agenda of the Swedish Democrats. Housing allowance may also be increased. At the same time, my impression is that Roger Hedlund believes that a lot of people have come here profiting from our welfare. I do not make the same assessment, but this is still the feeling I get. Well, then, raising housing allowance is the worst thing you can have, isn't it? It's more like trying to get people to work instead of giving them subsidies, isn't it? At least that's what the traditional right wing drives as the thesis. Then it is funny that the Swedish Democrats have voted in favour of a budget that basically removes the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen, because it is surely Arbetsförmedlingen that will ensure that people get jobs? The second thing that Roger Hedlund points out is that we must give ordinary people the opportunity to get a place to live. I totally agree with Roger Hedlund there. I believe that this is one of the most important issues. But will it be possible for ordinary people to have a place of residence if they do not have the opportunity to get a job and if they do not have the right social security conditions? After all, the tax cuts you make mean that low-income groups receive SEK 50 in tax reductions per year, while high-income earners, some of whom sit in this room, receive SEK 5 000 in tax reductions? What exactly is the policy of the Swedish Democrats in this area?
i-VixpiUzbFFf6Np13MRPFZ4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Löfstrand, for your line! You ask a lot of questions to answer in a short time. But the simplest question I would still like to ask you: How has the government really been thinking about the migration policy that has been taking place in Sweden for a long time? What kind of foresight has actually been given in this political field? It is an area that affects so many other policies in society today. Changing this in a short time will be completely impossible, but the first step that needs to be taken is what I concluded my speech by mentioning: one must have a tighter migration policy. We cannot do as we do today and build fewer homes than the number of residence permits we grant in Sweden. There are about 2.1 people living in each dwelling being built. When 54,000 homes are completed in one year, 2018, and at the same time granting a residence permit to 133,000 people, we are going in the wrong direction. Instead, we need to create the conditions for achieving a balance in the housing market through a tighter migration policy. It's A and O in this whole discussion. Then we need to create the conditions for more smaller construction companies to be able to participate, so that new production prices and lower house prices can be reduced. We must also enable more people to own their own home. If municipalities are to build all housing, it will be economically unsustainable in the long term. It must also be part of the whole thing that people can own and buy their own home. There we have put forward a number of proposals, such as start-up loans, tax deductions for housing savings and incentives for various forms of savings in order to obtain one's own home. These are some of the proposals that we Swedish democrats have put forward. You can also read about them in our committee session.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-396	Mr President, I would like to After all, we have just had a debate on migration policy, so I did not intend to dwell much on those issues. But the entry into force of the Social Democracy is basically that we are a rich country that should jointly and severally take responsibility in the light of what is happening around the world. At the same time, we have an ageing population in Sweden and the West. Indeed, many of those who come here will make an enormous contribution to this country's prosperity. So I do not see migration as a burden. I see it as something that creates added value. But I shall now go back to the debate on housing policy. Very many of the proposals that Roger Hedlund highlights focus on the property. In the rhetoric that the Swedish Democrats have, it is often a lot about looking at the individual. I think that is a good thing, but then it can't be big tax cuts and focus on the property that should be prioritised. I think it's a pity you don't have a clearer focus on other things.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-398	Mr President, I would like to Johan Löfstrand speaks of a policy of solidarity towards the people of the world who need help. I can only point out that today there are over 65 million people on the run around the world who do not have an opportunity to go to protected areas. We need to have a migration policy that means that we can actually help those people who cannot get to Sweden. We also believe that it is better to help in the immediate areas of the crisis than to help a few. This is actually a large number for Sweden, but there are a few if you look at it all over the world. Then it applies to the housing policy part of the Swedish Democrats' policy. We believe that building subsidies make housing construction difficult for housing companies that actually build without subsidies, as the reform indirectly affects the use value system. We talk about what conditions we create for ordinary tenants in the long term.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-400	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, above all! Municipalities' social services provide 25,000 apartments for households who lack financial resources to resolve their own housing situation. That's an increase of 250 percent in ten years. A LO report claims that a family of children in which adults earn 33 000 kronor each cannot afford to buy a home. According to Boverket, this would require a building act of 67 000 homes per year. Instead, construction is sinking. In the last year, only 37 000 homes were started – this is despite the fact that the government spent over 11 billion on building subsidies over three years. It is reported that 243 of the country's 290 municipalities have a housing shortage. Regardless of when and how it will be, we expect a Prime Minister and his government to initiate reforms that lay the foundations for a long-term and predictable policy for more housing. When the housing crisis in Sweden deepens, it has direct consequences for growth and welfare. It has consequences if, like LO members, you can't change jobs because there's no housing. It has consequences when companies are deprived of the opportunity to recruit the best staff and when students are forced to turn down training places because the place of study does not offer small apartments. New arrivals are less integrated if they are referred to overcrowding in alienation areas. No government – whether the just-voted or the alliance government – has managed to implement the reforms needed to boost construction, open the housing market to those who are farthest from it and increase mobility so that housing is available to those who want to move. That is why, Mr President, we in the Center Party have said that a new cross-block agreement is needed. Steps must be taken towards a significantly changed model for leasing the government that hopefully will soon take office. The Center Party had hoped that the Social Democrats would show that they are prepared to allow more free renting in more areas than today, not just for new apartments. It would also be a right for tenants and hosts to enter into agreements on the rent with the possibility of having it reduced while maintaining consumer protection. There is now no guarantee that more free renting for newly produced dwellings will lead to more rents being built, just as it has not been demonstrated that the construction subsidies have led to this. But what we do know is that today's regulation has had an inhibitory effect on mobility and on the desire to build. The Red Green Government has tried to compensate this with its investment aid. In our budget motion, we in the Center Party propose a rapid de-escalation to ensure that commitments already entered into can be met. We know that there are housing developers who base their calculations on being able to apply for investment aid. But the construction subsidies were criticised by the industry when they were introduced. It cannot come as a surprise to anyone that, in their present form, they would sooner or later be abolished. But when it is done, it must be done in a way that makes it predictable, not in the way that will now happen when builders are forced to redo their calculations or at worst put construction on ice, pending reforms that are delayed. Do not expect any government in the long run to want to use tax funds to pay the business community to offer a product or service, in this case housing, which most people can afford to pay with their normal earnings! This applies regardless of whether it is mortgage rates or rents that are subsidised. Mr President, I would like to The discussion on special requirements persists or, rather, about municipalities' tendency to handle building permits and planning processes differently. The will and ability of municipalities to build vary. Investigative proposals have been put forward to allow municipalities to use private land, without compensation, to build it with housing. No serious government, I hope, wants to make such a proposal. On the other hand, the state should remove obstacles such as national interests, noise requirements and beach protection. The legal circle and the unwieldy appeals should be reduced, so that predictability increases. We should amend the Planning and Construction Act so that it will be easier to adjust current detailed plans and so that construction companies themselves can run a planning process. The municipalities should then be prepared to adopt these plans in return. Promoting fewer regulations is the best way, Mr President, to promote housing in the long term. The lack of land is the main obstacle. But there are places in the country where even though there is land and a lack of housing there is no interest or opportunity to build. The reason for this is a low market value at the place where the auditors of the public good require immediate depreciation in the case of newly produced dwellings. Amortization requirements and a mortgage cap in combination make it impossible for first-time buyers to obtain a dwelling. This concerns, among other things, construction companies, which have recently invested heavily in modern and large-scale technologies to produce in a cheaper way serially produced climate-smart wooden houses. Mr President, I would like to The challenges are many and difficult, but nothing is impossible. Reforming housing policy is not a quick fix, and there is not a measure that solves all the problems. The organisations of municipalities and property owners, tenants, home owners and tenant-owners and the builders themselves can contribute. However, it requires a strong government representative of the broad majority in the middle of politics, which wants to reform housing policy and create a modern social housing policy of the Swedish model, where everyone who needs to get a place to live. Of course, the Centre Party does not take part in the decision on the draft budget, but I refer to our specific opinion in the report. Finally, according to the City Mission, 718 children today live in homelessness. We are urged to give them a thought by giving a gift or becoming a monthly donor, so that these children can have a tolerable Christmas holiday and the prospects of our own children and grandchildren. Let us think of them now that we wish each other a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-418	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support and support the Left Party's reservation 1. Sweden's new budget is a defeat for the climate, the working environment, feminism, culture, anti-racism and housing policy. Today we will focus on expenditure area 18 Community planning, housing supply and construction, and consumer policy. With the decision taken on Wednesday in this House on the budget, we have now gone far beyond the terrain where existing constitutional practices can provide guidance. M's and KD's actions supported by SD not only have economic policy implications in 2019 but also lay the foundations for constitutional practices for similar situations in the future. Our parties have all expressed the view that, in a situation in which the country is led by a transitional government, parliamentary work must be concentrated on putting in place a powerful government which can at least be tolerated by a majority of its members. We had expected an orderly and responsible process with the transitional budget, but unfortunately that was not the case. For expenditure category 18 Community planning, housing supply and construction and consumer policy, the M-KD budget means a reduction of over SEK 2 billion. Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 18. Together with S and MP, we submit a joint separate opinion. However, we would like to explain the policies that we believe should characterise the areas of housing and consumer policy. The starting point of the Left Party is housing policy objectives based on the basic principles that all should be given the opportunity to live in good housing at reasonable cost and in a stimulating and safe environment within a sustainable framework. The housing and housing environment should be based on people's needs, contribute to equal conditions and, in particular, promote good growth for children and young people. In planning, construction and management, ecological, economic and social sustainable development must be the basis for the activities. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party believes that Sweden should have a long-term and sustainable housing policy for all. Actions in housing policy are also important elements in reducing segregation. The housing shortage is undoubtedly one of the biggest societal challenges in Sweden in modern times. Efforts to increase and facilitate housing therefore need to continue at a sustained pace. During the last term of office, the Left Party, in cooperation with the Government, made investments in increased housing construction and a sustainable housing market. Among other things, several long-term aid measures have been introduced. Investment support stimulates the construction of more small, climate-smart rentals including student housing with reasonable rents. The investment support has resulted in more rental and student housing being built. The aid has made a difference in construction projects where it would otherwise have been difficult to get the economic calculation together. Sabo is in favour of the investment aid and believes that the aid makes a difference in construction projects that would otherwise have been difficult to reconcile. The Tenants' Association is also positive about the investment support. The support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-detached buildings and outdoor environments is also an important initiative to increase the pace of renovations and energy efficiency, while protecting the tenant against unreasonable rents. Mr President, I would like to In addition, time-limited support for innovative and sustainable construction has been introduced. This creates incentives for innovation and sustainable construction from a climate and environmental perspective. The aid is in demand and constitutes important instruments to facilitate the construction of new homes and renovations of existing ones. Despite this fact, the Moderates and Christian Democrats propose to phase out the subsidies. The alternative appropriations for Category 18 submitted by the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals also propose reductions in aid. This is an irresponsible policy that would mean that in a few years' time there is a complete lack of reforms and efforts to stimulate housing construction and create sustainable living environments. We also find it problematic that the consequences of phasing out aid as soon as there are no transitional rules have not been analysed. In the Left Party we think this: In a time of declining construction, where more and more construction companies are withdrawing their forecasts, more state aid is needed for housing, not less. At a time when a majority of municipalities state that they have a deficit in housing, in particular rental apartments with reasonable rents, state aid is needed for housing construction. At a time when more and more people are homeless, more state aid is needed for housing, not less.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-431	Mr President, I would like to It is always special to discuss housing policy with the Left Party here in the Swedish parliament. You beat quite so wildly around yourself and have both literal and figuratively high tones. But really it's just breast tones, because you don't have any suggestions of your own. In summary, the Left Party's housing policy consists of two things: you want billions of subsidies for private construction companies, and you want to de facto abolish or restrict property rights. We can leave the debate on ownership, Mr President. There will be a great deal of discussion in the coming years. However, I do have a number of questions concerning investment aid for private construction companies, which is worth a number of billions a year by the Left Party. What makes you as a left-wing party comfortable giving billions to private construction companies, Jon Thorbjörnson? Those who are eligible for these apartments have been those that are already on the housing market and that earn very well. What makes you comfortable with it? What makes you want more and not less of it? And where is the money going to be taken to further increase this inefficient and distortive billion-dollar grant to private companies? I would be grateful to have an answer to that.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-433	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green! We have needed increased housing construction since the 1990s. From the end of the Second World War to the 1990s we got many more homes in Sweden. It was a period when people needed it. This was the case thanks to a government building policy in which we went in and directed and made sure that it was built for those who needed it. The investment aid has provided 16 600 housing units. 4.6 billion has been granted. It's money that goes to housing. I don't see anything strange about the fact that private companies are building. The important thing is that we get housing for those who need it. Rents with reasonable rents are needed. People shouldn't have to put up 1, 2 or 3 million to have the opportunity to live somewhere. Living somewhere is a fundamental right in our society. There is a lack of housing in a majority of the country's municipalities. Above all, there are no rental apartments with reasonable rents, housing that ordinary people can live in without taking out large loans. Investment aid was introduced to increase the construction of these leases. Now that you are abolishing them, what measures do you intend to take to increase the construction of rental apartments that people can afford? Or is it up to the market to solve everything on its own?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-436	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to keep these building subsidies. That is why the Left Party says no to greater spending on municipal welfare, no to more and better paid police officers and no to tax cuts, which give more money in the wallet for workers and pensioners. Jon Thorbjörnson says we need to build housing for those who need it. That is my line, Mr President. That's what we need. However, this investment aid does not go to those most in need of housing, but to those who already have a foothold in the housing market and who, in most cases, also earn quite well. This is the last group a left-wing party – if you really stand up for what you say you believe in – would like to add more misplaced billions to building subsidies, Mr President. No, think again and think right, instead of thinking red!
i-73efc8c92f66b782-438	Mr President, I would like to Where is the money going to be taken? Yes, among other things, we do not want to reduce taxes on high-income earners and give those who already have much more. There are already subsidies for own ownership. There are interest subsidies. You can get RUT deductions for pool cleaning. Now you're supposed to get it even for moving furniture in your house. There are lots of money that we can do better with, such as building homes. I am in favour of a housing policy that means that everyone has the right and the opportunity to live in a rental apartment and that you do not have to have a high income in order to get a living.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-441	Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden has been suffering for quite a few years when it comes to the lack of enough housing is not something we can be proud of, not one of us in this room. The least you can ask is for each individual to satisfy his or her need for a home to call his or her own roof over his or her head. Housing construction must have as a starting point that society should stick together. The foundations are a functional housing market with the needs as an important component, the ability to own their housing and the construction of housing with the goal of long-term housing. This requires a long-term and sustainable policy that can look far into the future. Sweden is on the peak of a boom. It will, with great certainty, fold in the years to come. There will be new demands on all of us as to how we use our common tax funds. We must do the right things and use the money properly to strengthen Sweden at a time when the economy is being strained. I believe that it is not right to have construction subsidies in a boom. But we have more problems in the housing market than just building subsidies. Even if we enter a recession, the lack of housing is not gone but still a problem that we have to resolve jointly. At the same time, we know that much of the engine that drives the Swedish economy is residential construction. We have a common responsibility to find the keys to building the required housing. Today is not the case. We have a common responsibility to find the keys to getting housing to a level that reduces the lack of housing. Today we are building the wrong type of housing and too few housing. Over the past year, the number of dwellings completed has basically halved, which is a failure in the midst of a boom not only for the government but for us as Parliament. We have gone from the fact that the financing of housing construction has taken place with borrowed funds to the fact that the financing now requires more and more equity, while limiting the possibility of borrowing money, and quite substantial repayments of the borrowed capital are required. This hampers housing construction and reduces the possibility of financing a purchase of a dwelling. We do not currently have a system that is adapted to finance construction with its own resources. It will take time before we are there, and a number of positions will be required in this House to make that shift work if that is the way we want to go. Of course, we Christian Democrats are concerned that the loan rate is increasing, but it should be seen in the light of how much is in assets. Housing takes a long time to plan and build, and therefore policy measures must have a long-term perspective. But it cannot relieve us of responsibility in the short term. We must try to see what action we can take in the short term as well. I am thinking above all of reducing the impact of migration taxes, which lock people into homes that they do not need. Take off the roof and let the interest be paid when you get out of the moving chain! Then we do not allow the migration taxes to stop people from buying or switching to the home they need in different ways of life. The list of free-of-construction measures must be extended in order to reduce the hassle and free up the space for municipalities to make decisions on the matters that need to be dealt with in order to get housing construction started. Let the right of private initiative become more the rule than the exception so that the processes are not stopped because of the municipal resource management! Municipalities must be given incentives to speed up their case management by reducing the building permit fee in the long term. The number of appeals that can be made in a case must also be limited and a fee imposed that can allow you to think again before an appeal is lodged. The Christian Democrats want to investigate the conditions for introducing a system to make it easier for more people to live in owned housing. The idea of the auto-home movement is that you are freer and more economically independent in a long perspective if you own your home. I think there is something we need to discuss more. On this basis, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-452	Mr President, I would like to Between 2015 and 2018, the Social Democratic led government has ensured that housing construction has skyrocketed. During these years, we have built more than we built during the eight years with a Christian Democratic Minister for Housing. In his speech, Larry Söder talked a lot about long-termism. I share Larry Söder's picture – I think it is important to have a long-term perspective and ensure that the market has the opportunity to adapt. The investment aid that has been in place over the last four years has to date generated some 20 000 new homes. What Larry Söder says is that you should now remove that support. I respect the fact that you can have different ideological views. In 2007, Mats Odell was Minister of Housing. He removed the support at that time, and he did so with four months' anticipation. He gave the market four months to deal with it and said: Anyone who has cast a plate before December gets part of the support. Now there are a lot of actors. Up to 15 000 homes are now in the pipeline to be built. An example is found in Moderate-led Skövde, where Skövdebostäder plans 132 student housing that today stands and falls with whether or not the County Administrative Board will be able to handle the application. Does Larry Söder think it is reasonable that the patchwork to the budget that has now been forced through in the Riksdag can have the consequence – that a company can lose millions of SEK because the county administrative board does not have time to handle the application?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-457	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we have a transitional government does not mean that we have a transitional holiday. It's important to remember. We have things to handle and decisions to make, including a budget. I do not apologise for the approval of the Christian Democrats and Moderates' budget in this House. However, I am disappointed that we do not have a government in place – perhaps one that corresponds to the majority and can thus enforce the proposals contained in that budget. The construction industry is a market, and subsidizing part of the market means distorting the market and, in the long run, not creating more housing, but simply controlling the constructions that take place. That is my opinion. It should not be a surprise to anyone that the Christian Democrats think so, because we also thought so in the last parliamentary term. If you think that an alliance budget contains construction subsidies, you are probably quite naive. I believe that if a government comes into place as soon as possible, it can create the conditions for doing this in a smooth and good way. But every day without a government in place creates major problems. That is why I think we should get a government in place as soon as possible. It's my recipe to solve this.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-461	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder tells us a lot that we must have a government that is capable of action. I don't know if the museum staff in the 16 state authorities are particularly happy not to know how to do it on 1 January– whether to start charging in the entrance or not. I don't know if it's particularly responsible. Similarly, I do not think it is particularly responsible that today we have about 400 applications pending notification of investment aid or not. Many of the applicant companies have ploughed down hundreds of thousands of dollars, in some cases several million dollars, in producing an adequate calculation. Now the Moderates and Christian Democrats are implementing a budget in which in three weeks they decide not to give these companies the opportunity to get their applications approved. I ask my question again: is it reasonable for 15 000 homes to stand and fall with the fact that there are no transitional rules?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-464	Mr President, I would like to It is not reasonable for the Swedish people and companies to wait three months for a new government. It is not reasonable for us in this House to be unable to decide who is to be Prime Minister. That is the main problem. Had we had a government in place, this could have been handled smoothly and well – that is, the government could have made the necessary decisions. As Johan Löfstrand says, a transitional government cannot deal with this situation, and this is our major problem. My call to Johan Löfstrand is therefore to take to his party that it is another budget that applies now in the Riksdag. Maybe another government should be in Rosenbad.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-466	Mr President, I would like to Today's Swedish housing market is closed, inflexible and in permanent imbalance. The next recession is waiting around the corner, and the forecasts for new construction fall sharply, while a very serious housing shortage persists. We Liberals are prepared to contribute to broad and long-term reforms for a new, socially and environmentally sustainable and economically sound Swedish housing market. Liberals' starting points for our budget exercise when it comes to fixing the Swedish housing market are quite easy. We need to invest funds in those groups that need the support of society and make it easier to move. On the other hand, we do not have to throw money at rich developers to build homes that will still be built. Instead, these developers need better rules in order to build faster and more so that we can get the 600 000 homes that we need up to 2025. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish housing market is divided between insiders and outsiders. Entering the housing market requires time, contacts and money. This affects young and newcomers in particular, but also people who need a new chance in the middle of life. Hundreds of thousands of people who would like to enter the regular housing market are currently excluded. The price of owned dwellings has doubled over a ten-year period, and the housing queues for rental apartments are breaking record every year; I have reported Stockholm's housing queue to Guinness' record book. This means that especially young and new Swedes end up outside. Your background actually determines your future in the Swedish housing market. Let me give you a few examples. In none of Sweden's 20 largest municipalities, an ordinary young woman between 25 and 29 years can afford to buy one. An ordinary young man can afford to buy one in just 3 of these 20 largest municipalities. If you do not currently have a mom-daddy bank or have managed to buy a home much earlier, you are therefore outside. This is today's Sweden. For Swedes with foreign background, the situation is even darker. It is more than three times more common for a Swede with a foreign background in the middle of life to live in a rental apartment than for a person with a Swedish background to do so. This means that there are great differences in terms of freedom, security and long-term sustainability of housing. A key task for the future must be to give the Swedish housing market a new dynamic. Broad system reforms are needed in the liberal direction. The obstacles to entering the housing market must be removed. The alienation must be broken. The system must become more market-oriented, while at the same time providing people with little financial resources with more financial support. It should be a political goal for more Swedes to own their housing, especially those with lower incomes. Four out of five Swedes prefer to own their accommodation. That's not strange either. For those who own it, this is a way of building their own financial security. In the longer term, own-owned housing is a cheaper option than one that you rent. If we want people to live cheaply, ownership is the cheaper form. For society, at the same time, this is an opportunity to close the gaps between those living in the alienated areas and, as it were, inside. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight four points from the Liberals' budget motion. Firstly, no to unnecessary building subsidies and yes to higher housing allowances. The Liberals, together with the Center Party, are the only ones who completely dismantle unnecessary building subsidies. The transitional government's unnecessary building subsidies have not helped at all. Dwellings had been built anyway, and it turns out that those who have moved into social housing have much higher income than average in their municipalities of residence. Surely that could not have been the intention; I do not even think the Left Party can think that. Instead, the Liberals are investing money in raising housing allowances significantly more than the transitional government and the Left Party is proposing. We are investing this money, which is also done in the winning M-KD budget, especially on pensioners with guaranteed income and multiple children. But we go further than M and KD and also invest in increased housing allowances for people with, for example, activity compensation. This is an effective policy to bring more scarce families into the housing market. Secondly, the reduction in interest rates. Instead, we liberals are investing in a housing system for young people. Today, by deducting interest, the Swedish State spends enormous sums on those who have large loans. Sweden is unique in Europe with such a policy. Instead, the rest of Europe is investing in those who want to enter the market for owned housing, through a housing-saving system for young people. We want a housing-saving system for everyone for the first purchase. The Moderates and the Social Democrats have fallen into an unholy alliance and refuse to touch on the interest rebates, which actually benefit high-income earners. In addition, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have invested in making it even more difficult for young people and single people through an amortisation requirement that effectively shuts them out. Thirdly, Sweden needs a suburban lift. At least half a million Swedes today live in areas that are strongly characterized by exclusion and have been so for a long time. These are areas that are completely dominated by rentals, where high unemployment has been adamant, school results are weak and voting turnout is low – you know the problem. Liberals believe that the rent increases should be the lowest in these areas. We believe that at least 30% of homes should be owned, and we believe that we should introduce a pilot initiative on business infrastructure development areas, so-called BIDs. In remote areas of the United States, South Africa, England and Germany, legislation has succeeded in creating property owners-controlled communities that have lifted these areas. We believe that such a system would be good for Sweden. Fourthly, Mr President, remove the removal tax. Liberals want to remove the removal tax so that more people can afford to move to something they actually want to live in. We want to permanently remove both the ceiling and the interest. This would be the largest and most effective effort to stimulate mobility in the Swedish housing market. Mr President, I would like to Sweden simply needs the housing policy of the Liberals. Finally, the Riksdag has chosen the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' proposals for spending frameworks, the calculation of government revenue and the focus on budgetary policy. On the Liberal side, we believe that the draft budget must be seen as a whole. Despite the fact that Liberal policy is the best, we do not support our own budget reservation, but we have a specific opinion.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-482	Mr President, I would like to It has been warm this summer, and even in the autumn. I, who always freeze, have taken my jacket off many times. Out on the farm where I live, the neighbor stands on a late October night in T-shirts and barbecues – and I'm scared. I have followed in the media how there is a fire in California and in Sweden's forests, about extreme weather in Europe, about the Maldives that will be devoured by the sea, about how people in Bangladesh are forced to escape from rivers that overflow and about how hunger, which has previously been reduced, is now increasing in the world for the third year in a row. The UN points out climate change – and I'm afraid. Mankind's greatest challenge is climate change. Our primary task now is to leave a planet behind that can live on. There's no planet B. The construction sector currently accounts for about one fifth of Sweden's climate emissions, but the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats choose to remove investments in innovative and sustainable construction, a support that stimulates building the sustainable society of the future. Despite rising temperatures in the world, Mr President, it is freezing inside me. I'm scared. We politicians have a responsibility for future generations and for the children who live here and now. Housing policy is central to combating climate change. We have to act, and we have to do it now. Otherwise, there's nothing later. Mr President, I would like to We also have a responsibility for children's housing situation and to create good conditions for children in our country. Although Sweden is one of the richest countries in the world, we have children in our country who live in unsafe housing conditions. In the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's report Homelessness 2017, approximately 10 500 – 15 000 children were estimated to have lived in some form of homelessness during the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's survey week – up to 15 000 children! And now it's Christmas. Every child should have a safe home. No child should have to fall asleep at night with stomach pains of anxiety and wonder: We have to move again. We can't stay here. Mom and Dad, where are we moving? ..................................................... Insecure living conditions have a very negative impact on children – their health, schooling and safety. Children may experience anxiety, difficulty sleeping and outward action. Save the Children writes in a report that they have met children who show symptoms that indicate stress and trauma– t rauma! It is not worthy of Sweden. Basically, it is a problem of housing policy. We must build homes that people can afford to demand. Then we cannot reduce the support that creates more rentals with reasonable rents, as the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats now do. On the contrary, we must do more. In addition to working to create a functioning housing market, the Green Party wants to see a range of measures to strengthen not least the situation of children, and I will mention five. First, give the National Board of Health and Welfare the task of developing a national strategy for reducing homelessness among families with children and strengthening the situation of children, in consultation with Boverket, the Ombudsman for Children and other relevant authorities. Secondly, introducing a 14-day limit for the placement of families with children in emergency housing, as proposed by the Ombudsman for Children. Children should have safe and long-term housing. Thirdly, look at how we can stimulate more housing solutions for families with children, for example through housing that can lead into housing markets or the possibility for families with children to gain priority when there is a housing queue. Fourthly, giving social services increased opportunities in the Social Services Act to provide housing solutions for families with children in homelessness even when there is no social problem. Fifthly, strengthen support for the children who live in homelessness here and now. Listen to children's own voices about what they need. Create better conditions for children to attend preschool and to complete their schooling, and introduce compensatory measures. Mr President, I would like to A child's upbringing doesn't replay. We can never get back years lost in a child's life. Nor can we resurrect a planet where the conditions for human life have changed radically. That is why we must act, and we must do so now. Otherwise, there's nothing later.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-499	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to agree with much of what Åsa Lindhagen talks about regarding the right to a home for everyone. However, I cannot help but say that it is then remarkable that the Green Party is the party in the Swedish parliament and the party in Sweden's municipalities that has opposed the most measures to make it easier to build housing and in the municipalities the most concrete housing projects were opposed. It is somehow unsustainable to say that we need more housing in Sweden now. But I guess we'll have a chance to discuss it more during the next debate. Let me just ask you one question with regard to construction subsidies and investment aid. It is no secret what the Alliance and the Moderates think, nor is it a secret what Åsa Lindhagen's party thinks, which has been involved in introducing these. We have said that we want to phase them out gradually and that this decommissioning should take place pragmatically in order to get the market used to building subsidies. We are also clear about this in the budget letter. Will the transitional government, led by Peter Eriksson as Minister of Housing, deal with this in accordance with the spirit of the budget decision, or will it run the scorched earth's tactics?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-502	Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised at what Mats Green brings out about my party. I have been involved as a bourgeois council in municipal politics in Stockholm the past term of office, and we have never built so much in Stockholm. This was very important to me, because I worked on social issues and clearly saw how the housing shortage hits people in vulnerability. The environmental party is guaranteed to give priority to housing construction. We must ensure that more housing and more housing can be provided in which people can afford to live. Social homelessness in Sweden has been complemented by structural homelessness. Social services around our country meet completely new groups of people who would not need the help of social services but who still do so because of the housing situation. In this situation, you want to remove the support that has stimulated the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents. When I read the report, I also note that there is a glaring lack of other policies, which explains what the Moderates want to do instead of creating decent-rent housing. Where's your policy? Mr President, I would like to I would like to know how the Moderates view this. Instead of finding these homes, what should we do?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-507	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would have had more respect for Åsa Lindhagen's entrances if it had been the case that the investment aid had gone to the very groups she cares about, but they have not. Investment aid has gone to the wealthy, to those who already have a foothold in the housing market and who earn well and, moreover, to private construction companies. This does not, therefore, benefit or help the vulnerable groups at all. What do we have instead? This is a budget debate, and we do not believe that we should throw more billions into housing policy. That is not what is needed, but more housing is needed. That's why we're going to take a holistic approach to this with everything from simplification, rental regulation, the possibility for more people to own their housing to making it easier and cheaper to build. We also want to take a grip on all taxes. We could have said yes to everything if the government had been able to deliver a single proposal, but unfortunately this has not been done. And this is where the arguments for more housing fall when it comes to the Green Party.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-510	Mr President, I would like to No, we have no income requirement linked to living in these homes. Then one might ask: Do the Moderates think we should have it? We do not know who will live in the homes in the future. We can look at who has moved in, but we have no idea what it will look like in five years, for example. On the other hand, we know that we need housing with reasonable rents. We know that there is a glaring shortage of housing, and we now see that more housing is being built with reasonable rents. This is extremely important for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I am somewhat surprised by the first line – that we must be pragmatic in terms of aid. Now you are abolishing these aids with a manslaughter team, Ola Johansson. If you do not have your application processed before the end of the year, you will not receive support. I don't think the construction companies are really impressed with politics right now.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-513	Madam President, I would like Åsa Lindhagen is not a member of the civil committee, so I have full respect for the fact that housing policy is not her home area. I have the same picture as she of the climate situation and vulnerable people who find it difficult to find a place to live. I note that Åsa Lindhagen has Stockholm as the starting point for her political commitment, and you can have that. One problem raised is that innovation support and support for energy efficiency have been removed from the budget decided by the Riksdag. But what about regulatory simplifications and the conditions for them to create opportunities for the innovations that we all want? What about all the wood industry companies that are now investing 2.4 billion innovatively in new production facilities to transform Swedish forests into sustainable, climate-smart housing? What about Swedish forestry policy, which means that species protection and biotop protection mean that many private forest owners are not allowed to use the forest that exists? With the help of various transport charges, we prevent these foresters, forest companies and forest industries from getting all this forest in a reasonably cost-effective way to the sawmills and factories and then to the construction sites. I would say that the Green Party has good ambitions in terms of climate but extremely low ambitions in terms of the ability to create conditions for both jobs, housing and economic activity in rural areas.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-516	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Ola Johansson for her kind words. I am not a full member of the Civil Committee. I sit on the Social Committee, and there are clear links between how we build a sustainable society that is good for all people and that provides better support for people in vulnerability. It is therefore a great pleasure to be present in the debate today. With regard to the issues raised by Ola about forests and the protection of biodiversity and the kind of issues that I perceived Ola was concerned with, there are clear differences between the Environmental Party and the Center Party on environmental and climate issues. We may have a common commitment to these issues, but we need to do much more there. Nor do I have at all the same picture as that of Ola when it comes to jobs and housing. These issues are extremely central to creating a good society. But if we are to cope with the transformation of society, we must build a Sweden where we protect the environment and counteract climate change. I am firmly convinced that we can create a society with a good labour market and housing that everyone can afford to demand while working towards climate change and a good environment. These are prerequisites for us to be able to lead a good life in Sweden in the long term too. It does not matter what we do on various issues if we do not protect the climate and the environment. It is possible to build, it is possible to work with an offensive labour market policy and it is possible to protect the climate and the environment at the same time.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-521	Madam President, I would like One way of protecting the climate and the environment is to make it possible to live and operate in rural areas, and that is a little bit of my point. We have an example in my municipality of Halland, where an entrepreneur wants to build a house but is hindered by an appeal run by the Nature Conservation Association in the neighbouring municipality. We have several cases where people want to be able to build beachfront. They have even gone all the way to apply for the possibility to build rural development in a beachfront location, and then they have had it stopped by the County Administrative Board for various reasons. There is one major obstacle to housing, which applies whether we are talking about big cities or about rural municipalities, and that is the lack of land. This is because we have long planning processes, strict noise guidelines, beach protection, national interests and other types of procedural obstacles.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-525	Madam President, I would like I am not familiar with the specific example that Ola Johansson raised, but it is clear that one can always think about why, for example, the Nature Protection Association appeals. It is extremely clear to me that there is a very great need for strong voices in civil society that stand up for climate and environment, because today there is not enough political responsibility around the world for these issues, which are our predestined issues. I'd like to ask you a question. You want to remove investment aid to build cheap housing with reasonable rents, Ola Johansson. I know that you are not able to answer this, but it is still a key question in which you are obliged to answer: how are we going to get housing that people can afford to live in? There, more policy and more answers are needed on your part.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-527	Madam President, I would like Sweden and housing policy need to get on the right track. The draft budget that Parliament has taken a position on and the draft expenditure area that we are now going to debate is the first part of just getting Sweden on the right track. It is a draft budget from the Moderates and Christian Democrats based on the Alliance's reform agenda. Madam President, I would like The housing crisis is rampant and spills over in all areas of society and all parts of Sweden – here in Stockholm, in other big cities but also in the rest of the country. It strikes young people who are moving from home to places where jobs and studies are located. It strikes people who, with different changes in life situations, need another new home. It could be anything from divorce to death. This may involve older people who feel that the current villa or dwelling is not possible to stay in and therefore need a different accommodation. It is clear that the housing crisis is hampering Sweden. It hampers growth and the functioning of the labour market, but the most serious thing, Madam President, is, of course, how it hits the individual and his potential. We were able to conclude earlier that it is easy to believe, when looking at housing policy, that we have had a transitional government throughout the last parliamentary term, given the very few proposals that have been delivered for more housing in Sweden. Today we have a dysfunctional housing market, where political regulations of various kinds have for far too long made it difficult for people both to own their housing and to have access to a rental agreement. Proposals for more housing have shone with their absence for four years. Despite the worst housing crisis in 50 years, no government in modern times has made so few proposals to increase housing construction. That is unacceptable. At the same time, recent forecasts suggest that the housing crisis appears to be deepening with a clearly reduced build rate. The red-green double lock in housing policy has damaged Sweden. The consequences of the housing crisis aggravate a number of other social problems. The political inaction that has characterised housing policy for a whole term of office has meant that the housing crisis has deepened. In addition to what I mentioned earlier, it hampers growth and enterprise, makes integration more difficult and restricts the opportunities and dreams of people and families. Madam President, I would like The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats mean a shift in housing policy. We are proud that we are now getting a budget that protects taxpayers' money and gradually abolishes the expensive and inefficient building subsidies that do not contribute to more housing. The fact that over 11 billion of taxpayers' money is to finance market-distorting measures that only give some construction companies greater profit margins is something that should actually provoke most taxpayers. The industry has not requested these subsidies. At the same time, there is no clear causality, no clear link, between the introduction of investment aid and the actual construction of more rental apartments. This type of building subsidy is a particularly bad way of combating the worst housing crisis in over half a century. Housing policy should be about building as many homes as possible, not about how we spend as many billions as possible. As we move away from an expensive subsidy policy for billions, which has not led to more housing, to a responsible prioritisation of citizens' tax money, it is about allowing more pensioners living with small margins to keep more money in their wallets or to raise the wages of our hard-working police officers. This goes for us every day of the week before putting billions in the construction sector. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. That is what the policy is about, namely to give priority. For us, it is self-evident that increased resources for the core business of welfare, stronger defence and more police are ahead of subsidies to construction companies. I would like to challenge the left-wing parties in this House to a debate on this particular priority. Go out and ask the Swedish taxpayers what they prefer: building subsidies or resources to shorten care queues, investment aid or more money in pensioners' wallets, more police or more money for construction companies. Madam President, I would like Swedish housing policy cannot be based on expensive building subsidies. Sweden needs a coherent housing policy reform agenda that takes a holistic approach to combat the housing crisis. A number of fundamental simplifications are needed to shorten and simplify the construction process. Lead times need to be shortened, unnecessary regulations need to be reduced, house taxes need to be reviewed and mobility in the housing market needs to be improved. At the same time, we need to make it easier for more people to own their housing and to achieve a better functioning rental market. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that Sweden needs a new and effective government that can enforce effective solutions for more housing and a better functioning housing market. With this draft budget, we are now beginning a shift in housing policy. We hold tight on taxpayers' money and focus on measures that really help more people to get their own home. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-539	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, today in Sweden we see a homelessness in change. Previously, homelessness affected people with a social problem, such as substance abuse or mental illness. Today, people are also being knocked out only because of the difficult housing situation. Social homelessness has been complemented by structural homelessness. We need more housing that all the people in the ice can afford to ask for. In this situation, as we have previously noted in the debate, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are removing investment support for rental rights. These parties also remove the almost entirely new support for innovative and sustainable construction that will stimulate the building of sustainable communities. In the midst of a burning climate crisis, this is being removed. It would be in order if the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats did not end these support so incredibly abruptly without any understanding of the construction companies' terms and if the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats had another policy to create housing for ordinary people and another policy to combat climate change. But this budget is a manslaughter battle against climate and environment. I can't find a policy for rentals with reasonable rents. Madam President, I would like I wonder: What do the Moderates want to do to create housing for all, and what do the Moderates want to do to counter climate change?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-542	Madam President, I would like The problem with these building subsidies is that they go to what is the opposite of what Åsa Lindhagen says she is protecting. They do not go to the most vulnerable but to the wealthy, to those who already have their foot in the housing market and who earn well, because this government has decided that the housing should be divided according to queue time. The groups you say you care about, Åsa Lindhagen, do not see the smoke of them. On the contrary, we want to invest more money in municipal welfare. Through discontinued construction subsidies, we want to invest in the municipalities to deal with this. You say no to this money, you don't want it. That's the one thing I wanted to talk about. The second concerns climate change. Does the Green Party believe that housing should be built environmentally consciously only as long as you are paid for it? So the Moderates do not think so. We believe that this is something that should always be done and something that we should stimulate, for example, through legislation. Again, these building subsidies have not led to housing that would otherwise not have been built. Madam President, I would like It is quite wrong to claim that this aid is being cut abruptly. The Green Party and the government, of course, want to see such an application. That is what I talked about earlier when I spoke about the tactics of the burned earth. It says among the s. 21 - 22 in the report that it should take place gradually, so that the market can get used to these building subsidies. But it must not take the focus away from what we need to focus on, namely that this is a matter of priority. And we do not give priority to subsidies for private construction companies. We prioritise more housing and greater investment in municipal welfare. I regret that Åsa Lindhagen's party is saying no to all of this. It's a fact.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-547	Madam President, I would like It is the case that 15 000 homes are in danger of being lost because you are withdrawing this support, Mats Green. If you do not have your application processed before 31 December, you will not be able to receive the support. Our authorities must follow what Parliament has decided, and that is what the budget looks like. I am sorry that this is the case, but it is the case. I do not think, as I said, that the construction companies are particularly impressed by this behaviour. We would have needed a slow phasing-out if we were to push for this to happen. However, I do not think that is what we should do. We know that we need housing with reasonable rents; I think that is clear to everyone. Nor do we know who will live in these homes in the future. It may be people who have a great need of them, and we know that there are municipalities where the social services use these homes to find ways in for people who have a slightly thinner wallet. The right thing now is to focus on continuing to build housing with reasonable rents, and regarding how it should be done, the Moderates remain guilty.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-550	Madam President, I would like If the Green Party really stands for this, Åsa Lindhagen, why have you hardly delivered a single proposal to get such housing? On the contrary, you have devoted yourself to saying no to a host of proposals from the Moderates, our alliance colleagues and the other parties in this House. Why have you said no to all this? Despite the worst housing crisis in 50 years, no government in modern times has delivered so few proposals to make it possible to build more homes like this, where the Green Party is primarily responsible for this. Why? Once again, Madam President, to spend a total of 11 billion on housing for those who already have is to make completely the wrong priority. It is precisely disadvantageous to the groups Åsa Lindhagen here and says she wants to protect. No, this is about priority, and we are prioritising more resources for municipal welfare and more in the wallet for workers and pensioners.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-552	Madam President, I would like I intend to devote my speech to the second part which the Committee on Civil Liberties is dealing with, namely the one dealing with consumer policy and power. Too little time may be devoted to discussing consumer law. Consumer power-- is that something that's real? When Soheila Fors looked at clothes in a store in Sweden, she was told that she was not wanted as a customer. She had no veil, so the shopkeeper would not sell to her. They didn't want to sell to unbelievers. The lack of the garment that a lot of women in the world struggle to avoid wearing was therefore the basis for Soheila not being allowed to buy anything in a store in Sweden. The idea of consumer power is that consumers should use their consumption habits to influence entrepreneurs to behave. It's not supposed to be used the other way. The power should lie in companies wanting the customer's money, and the risk of having fewer customers should make the entrepreneur maintain a good level of service and not discriminate against his customers. Friend of order will surely inform me that discrimination cannot take place for reasons other than those set out in the law and that religion is such a reason. However, the lack of religion does not appear to be a basis for discrimination. Now Soheila Fors is not like any ordinary person. An ordinary person had most likely tied his hand in his pocket, and then there had not been much more of this. Soheila, however, is an active debater and opinion-maker, so she highlighted the problem instead. She did what I understand not primarily to change any law but to point out a problem that exists in society today and is growing. The reactions and comments indicate that there is a problem that is considerably greater than a few isolated events. Many are the ones who testify to how they have not been able to buy goods in different stores or have been asked to leave stores because they lacked a veil. The society we have now created is a divided society. We have gone from living together to rather living side by side, and often lack the mutual respect that is demanded. It may seem unimportant if someone is refused to buy a dress in a shop in Sweden or is denied access to a carpet store in Rosengård, but these are not individual, unique events. Rather, it is systematic repression against women. The stores that turn down customers without veils do not do so in isolated cases where they want to reject a purchase because they dislike the very person who wants to buy. They do so because they live according to a culture that requires women to cover their hair, where the woman is responsible for the man's sexuality and where the woman's human dignity is determined by her dress. It is exactly the same culture and the same values that the organisation My Stealthy Freedom protests against in Iran that here demands the covered hair of anyone who wants to shop in their store. The oppression is not at all finer in Rosengård than it is in Tehran. The oppression of unbelievers is nothing better than the oppression of believers. Women's oppression can never be defended by law on freedom of contract. Women's oppression is just going away. To be clear: Self-proclaimed moral policemen with a morality from the Middle Ages should not take advantage of our lack of discrimination law – point. Madam President, I would like When we talk about consumers being able to consume sustainable, safe and active, we are talking about more than the right of withdrawal, the fair terms and the list of contents. Although these elements are important, it is at least as important that discrimination be combated, just as I have explained. That is why we advocate that all discrimination should be illegal. This will thus indirectly also be part of our target for consumer policy – our target that addresses the need for safe consumers. Another part of our goal is active consumers. Then we mean that consumers should be informed so that they can make an active choice. Therefore, we are also pushing hard for consumers to know what they are buying, where it comes from and what's in it. The final part of our consumer policy objective is about sustainability. Sustainability is at least as important as the previous parts. Consumer policy must be sustainable both socially and economically and environmentally. Free enterprise must never take place at the expense of the environment or of people being exploited and forced to live under slave-like conditions – as unfortunately also happens in Sweden. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse our Amendment No 3.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-562	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson was, before we met in this House, a little anxious to have a change of line with him, but that is not why I am asking for the floor. What Mikael Eskilandersson describes is, of course, unacceptable behaviour on the part of a trader – just as unacceptable as it is when a private landlord refuses a person to rent or access a dwelling because of his ethnicity, appearance or other factors. What puzzles me a little bit is the link this issue has with current legislation and in what way the things that Mikael Eskilandersson describes have any bearing on the framework of consumer policy in Category 18. It would be interesting to hear the reasons why this particular story, which certainly everyone can agree with, is a strange story and unacceptable in many ways, is being discussed here today when we are discussing consumer policy in Category 18. Which law, specifically, is it Mikael Eskilandersson intends to change with his argumentation, and what funding does he think should be increased or reduced?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-565	Madam President, I would like My entire speech is, of course, based on the consumer policy objective that we have, in which we believe that all consumers should be able to consume sustainably, safely and safely. Of course, that is not exclusively what we decide in the Civil Committee – the Non-Discrimination Act we do not decide on in the Civil Committee, but it has been discussed and decided by the Constitutional Committee. But our policy is complete. It is based on the functioning of society as a whole, and the Non-Discrimination Act is within the part that I call security. Correcting it so that all discrimination is prohibited is something that is actually important for all consumers. Then there are other elements of consumer policy that lie, for example, on the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. I know, for example, that the Center Party is in favour of consumers being able to consume actively. One might wonder, then, why the Center Party has not supported the proposals that we have previously put forward in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, where we have proposed that it should be possible to see where goods come from and that it should not just say that things are produced within the EU. There is a huge difference if meat is produced in Finland, Spain or Denmark. In addition, the EU gives the freedom not to indicate what is in alcoholic products. Why should consumers not know what is in alcoholic products? Yes, it is outside our committee, but it is certainly not outside consumer policy.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-570	Madam President, I would like As I did not receive a proper answer to the questions I asked, I will not extend the debate in that part any further. I can only note that, for the Center Party, it is extremely important that we have a housing market that is open to everyone and that we create mobility in the housing market that allows people to have access to a home, whether it is a construction-subsidised tenancy, newly produced or existing through a more free renting, or whether, in the way proposed by the Center Party, it is possible to sublet their home and get a tax reduction for doing so. This, Madam President, is a way of creating greater opportunities for more people to enter the ordinary housing market – a housing market that does not exclude any person depending on ethnicity, origin, economic conditions or past history in terms of habits and background.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-573	Madam President, I would like I can see that I did not get a response at all to what I questioned. I tried to answer as best I could why our policy on consumer law is broader than that of the Committee on Civil Liberties. It goes without saying to me that consumer law must also be governed by laws other than those dealt with by the Committee on Civil Liberties. What I would really have liked answers to is why the Center Party believes that we should be active consumers while withholding a lot of information from these consumers. One should not have the right to know what is in a product or where within the EU the product is produced, but it should be enough for it to be EU-labelled. Now Ola Johansson is not entitled to any more lines, so unfortunately we do not get any answers to these questions.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-576	Madam President, I would like The first budget of the term of office has just been voted through in this Parliament. The joint reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats won. It clearly shows in which direction we want Sweden to go: a safer Sweden, investments in healthcare and more left in the wallet for midwives and police. After four lost years of red-green governance, we must now strengthen Sweden for the future and give people back security in everyday life. I therefore naturally support the joint proposal of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, which is also the committee's position. There is much to be done within the remit of the Committee on Civil Liberties. We need to move forward in the fight against child marriage and strengthen consumer rights. A leaven that still remains is the wild west that prevails in the beauty industry in Sweden. Here in Sweden we want to be the best at everything, but in the field of beauty we are the worst in the class when it comes to protecting against rogue actors by law. Madam President, I would like We also need to develop a housing policy worthy of the name. Not much has happened in the last four years. One of the attempts of the Red Green Government is to buy themselves out of the housing crisis through inefficient building subsidies. It's classic socialist politics. Putting a Kal le Anka patch on a broken leg, however, does not solve the deep housing crisis, as if we do not get radical changes just going to get even deeper. We therefore choose to phase out these inefficient subsidies. We want a housing policy, not just a building policy that only delivers subsidies to the builders when it is those who lack a home that should get our attention. Madam President, I would like There has been criticism from previous speakers of the fact that the county administrative boards now do not have time to deal with all the applications that have been received. A small tip from me is to put the hunt for the small hydropower owners aside for a while and prioritise the builders. Then maybe we can see more people who have time to get their applications approved. But again, Madam President, the introduction of subsidies is simple. Taking them away always hurts. However, the Kalle Duck patch must be removed in order to be able to see the real challenges and the real problems. Sweden's construction industries were out this week and welcomed the removal of the construction subsidies. They demand, like us, more focus on the m who will actually live in what is being built. If we strengthen consumers – consumer law is important – so that Sweden's construction company builds what is needed and what is needed we are a step on the road to a housing market that actually works and a Sweden where there is enough housing. Madam President, I would like We have just gone through an election movement; it is not that long ago. In good old tradition, it contained a multitude of electoral promises about everything between heaven and earth. But as Sweden's Byggindustrier also pointed out, it echoed empty with regard to election promises on how to solve our Swedish housing crisis. We could take this as a criticism of ourselves as Members of Parliament, but it can also be seen as a small advantage in view of what we have before us. It can actually be quite positive. Even though the lock-ups in Swedish housing policy became painfully clear when the housing talks broke down, we still do not have the pompous electoral promises to hold the positions even further, Madam President. Now, at the beginning of our term of office, we have every opportunity to take new steps and solve the enormous problems that a non-existent housing policy creates for young people who want to leave home, for new arrivals who are looking for their home in Sweden and for families with children who need to move away from their overcrowding. We in the Swedish Parliament, Madam President, must take responsibility and deliver what citizens have the right to expect from us, that is to say, that we solve the housing crisis. This time old positions and locks must not stop us from arriving. We can be radical. We can tear up all the current legislation, starting with a completely blank sheet. We can look at how others do it. And, Madam President, with my Norwegian background, I naturally have some special interests in the functioning of the Norwegian housing market and housing policy. I could say a lot but I am content to mention here today that in Norway they are doing what the construction industries are highlighting and which I believe is the right way forward. Norwegian housing policy focuses on those who are entering the housing market, those who are going to live and live in what is being built. That should also be Sweden's focus. Or, Madam President, we can do as we have always done and defend the policy of dutt as the Swedish construction and housing policy is and once again discover that trench positions do not benefit those who put their hopes in us. But I have to believe, for Sweden's sake, that we can lift ourselves out of our trenches, leave locked positions and start by asking the question: How do we want the Swedish housing market to work? When the question is answered, we can begin to come up with the proposals that lead to it. Madam President, I would like It's urgent. It's time for a stop to be made to the dutch. We must deliver real reforms that solve the housing crisis in the short and long term. We need a functioning housing market, not more Kalle Duck patches.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-590	Madam President, I would like I wasn't entirely satisfied with the previous answer I received from Ola Johansson, that is: I didn't really get an answer. Even the Moderates, along with the entire Alliance, have as their goal active consumers in a well-functioning market – or something like that. But how can you be an active consumer when you say no – at least you have done so before – to the proposals we have put forward? We have proposed that the country of origin, not just in the EU, should be indicated on goods and that the origin of the meat should be indicated on the menus so that you know where it comes from when ordering at a restaurant. You have also said no to the indication of the content of alcoholic beverages. You think it is working well, if I have understood correctly, as it is now working in the European Union. How, then, can consumers make active choices if they do not get the information they need to make active choices?
i-73efc8c92f66b782-593	Madam President, I would like I will not undertake to answer on behalf of Ola Johansson. I think he can handle that very well, Madam President. I agree that there is power among informed and enlightened consumers. I wanted to speak from the point of view of housing policy, on which I focused my speech. Here I would like to talk again about what is happening in my former country of Norway, where the policy has actually been focused on strengthening the consumer: the one who is going to live, the one who is going to rent and the one who is going to buy. I realise that it is absolutely impossible, Madam President, to lift one country's policy in one area and put it into another country's policy. But I am absolutely convinced that the right thing to do is to raise our eyes and look out in the world, including the European Union, how to solve consumer challenges in the best possible way and give consumers the power and the opportunity to choose. Then we will also have a market that works.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-597	Madam President, I would like I did not have the opportunity to request further reply from Ola Johansson earlier. Therefore, it is Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby that I may ask my questions to. But I still don't think I'm really getting an answer. If we now want consumer power, for consumers to be able to make active, conscious choices, how can you do that when you say no to indicating the country of origin? How can you do that when you say no to indicating the origin of the meat on menus and to account for the contents of alcoholic beverages? How can I choose which wine to take at Systembolaget when it only says what the wine contains on some wines? Some people don't say it at all, and most people say it only if the wine contains specific substances. How can I, as a consumer, choose without knowing. If I want to opt out of a country, I must be allowed to do so, even if it happens to be within the EU. But it only says that it is produced in the EU.
i-73efc8c92f66b782-599	Madam President, I would like Just as you have the opportunity to opt out of things, you also have the opportunity to make an active choice. What Eskilandersson wants here is the opportunity to make an active choice. I would like to point out, then, that we actually have the opportunity to choose what we want. You can of course choose a wine that is from France or a wine from Greece. But when it comes to consumer law, I think that there is also a certain responsibility on the part of the consumer himself. For example, LRF, the Swedish farmers, has been very good at highlighting Swedish meat, Swedish-produced food. Instead of asking for what we want to opt out of, I think that we, as consumers, should very much choose what we actually want, and that possibility already exists today. An enlightened consumer is also a consumer who takes responsibility.
