i-0449b67d42dc8e90-10	Madam President, I would like I grew up in a small municipality on the west coast, Lysekil. With all its charm, proximity to the sea and a fantastic nature, the municipality really has all the possibilities and conditions. However, the BB at Lysekil's hospital that I was born on is long gone. The municipality is experiencing great economic difficulties and has been doing so for a long time. Many young people move to work, and the infrastructure needs to be expanded. Turism during the summer is important but also creates challenges. My first political mission was in the 1990s in the same municipality. Quite quickly we decided to tear down some apartments in the commons in order to get state aid. Lysekil is not unique in that respect. There are many similar examples, and many other sparse municipalities have even greater challenges than the municipality I grew up in. I would have liked us to have taken the rural situation more seriously at that time and to have seen what development was about to take place and what policy should have already been given priority at that time. When Prime Minister Stefan Löfven stated in the government declaration after the election victory that we should have a policy for Sweden's rural areas, it created direct confidence in the future. Nor can one in any way accuse the government of prudence when the term of office is summed up so far. For example, the food billion investment in the implementation of the food strategy, increased investment in sustainable forestry, increased loan opportunities for businesses, a multi-million-dollar investment to strengthen the business environment of rural municipalities, promotion of the tourism industry, a green job investment of over SEK 900 million and a relocation of authorities that have begun and will continue. We have decided on the climate category with 4 billion that it is possible for local companies and municipalities to apply for a change in the important climate issue. The climate life will disappear, however, if the Moderates are allowed to govern with their budget. Madam President, I would like A comprehensive approach is needed to secure and strengthen local government services. It does not work for every authority to have its own local offices throughout the country. That's why we've created a unified organization with a focus on government local service and presence. Already today we can see that six new service offices have been opened. It will make a difference, for state presence is an important prerequisite for a cohesive Sweden. Madam President, I would like Unemployment is falling in Sweden. We now have the highest employment ever measured in the European Union. There have never been so many homes built since the days of the million-dollar program. But the conditions differ greatly depending on where in the country you look. I, who currently live in Gothenburg, see a clear distinction between city and country, while the big cities depend on the countryside and the countryside depends on the growth and development of big cities. One thing is not supposed to take the other out. Madam President, I would like In June 2015, the Government appointed a Parliamentary Rural Committee to develop proposals for the direction and formulation of a coherent policy for long-term sustainable development for Sweden's rural areas. Today we write history. It is the day when we are debating a new direction for Sweden's rural areas, which takes Sweden's entire challenges seriously. Later this week, on Thursday, we shall decide on this in broad agreement. A viable countryside with equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, work, housing and welfare leads to sustainable development throughout the country. The Government also presents three sub-objectives that include three dimensions of sustainable development that are in line with Agenda 2030. This report sets out the long-term direction of rural policy by both identifying a number of areas that are particularly important for the long-term sustainable development of Sweden's rural areas and clarifying how the policy should be steered and organised to achieve this. This is well in line with the objectives that we set ourselves in the Rural Committee and decided on. The direction of the government's rural policy should be a clear focus on creating the conditions for rural development. The Government is therefore investing 11⁄2 billion between 2019 and 2020 and thereafter 400 million annually in implementing most of the proposals made by the Rural Committee. And now there's a workshop! Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight some examples of initiatives. For you to live, work and live throughout the country, there must be jobs and entrepreneurship. It's a key. The Government therefore commissions the Swedish Agency for Growth to pay out nearly 70 million annually between 2018 and 2019 to 39 sparsely populated municipalities with major challenges, especially in northern Sweden. The aim is to strengthen the municipalities' ability to develop the business environment and the business community. In 2016, the government presented a new broadband strategy with some of the most ambitious goals in the world. Access to high-speed broadband is an important prerequisite for growth. At the same time, the government has been investing in broadband expansion in areas that are more sparsely populated and where the market does not have the ability to expand high-speed broadband on its own. A total of EUR 5.45 billion is involved in investments. On March 1, this year, the government raised the level of the Internet from 1 megabit per second to 10 megabit per second. This means that those who live most inaccessible, have poor mobile coverage and do not have more access to fibre can now receive support. It is, of course, crucial for local businesses and for schools and all homes that need rapid connectivity. It needs to be all over the country. Madam President, I would like The investments of the coming years will be distributed as follows, as described: Industry and entrepreneurship will receive 430 million. Innovation and knowledge development receive 49 million. Education gets 44 million. Housing and transport receive 105 million. Culture gets 22 million. Norrland aid will amount to 100 million each year. It is worth recalling once again the multi-billion-dollar efforts that the government has already made during its term of office and which are important for rural development. Some examples include the investments in broadband, rural services, increased government presence, learning centres and the food strategy. In addition to the Rural Bill, the Government has also made decisions on approximately SEK 2.6 billion, which during the period 2018–2027 will go to 30 rural municipalities, which among other things have high long-term unemployment. The government has also decided to increase and also to double the permanent operating aid to farmers in order to counter the trend of closing down local shops. Now there are conditions to continue. It should also be obvious that no matter where in the country you live, the police should be within reach. That's why the police are getting an historic increase in resources of 7.1 billion. The search pressure is high again for police training, and two new police colleges are about to be started. We have also made possible a new camera surveillance team. This makes it possible to set up surveillance cameras for agricultural machinery and forestry machines, thus overcoming diesel theft and damage. The government has opened up the possibility of cooperation with the emergency services. This is something that has been in demand for a very long time. Step by step steps are taken to get a cohesive Sweden. With the proposal that the report is discussing today, the government sets out the long-term direction of rural policy. The focus and objectives should be seen as a platform on the basis of which future decisions and measures for a viable rural environment should be drawn up. Madam President, I would like In view of the NU19 that we are debating today, some 70 motions are dealt with in supplementary motions and some 70 additional motions in motions. For time winning, I only ask for one of our reservations, No. 27. Otherwise, I would like to reject the remaining reservations and support the committee's proposals in the rest of the report. Nevertheless, I would like to touch on reservations 15 and 27, which deal with copper networks and beach protection. First of all, with regard to the copper network, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that customers are properly informed about termination and compensation solutions before new contracts can be signed. I would also like to emphasise that a great responsibility rests with Telia. I note that the government is following the matter very carefully. I also note that the Government's broadband strategy includes targets for access to high-speed broadband and access to high-quality high-speed mobile services for all households and businesses in Sweden. As the bill shows, there is an extensive broadband roll-out in our country. Furthermore, I note that from March this year, as I mentioned earlier, the government has increased the level of functional Internet access within the framework of social services. Therefore, like the Transport Committee, we do not see any reason why Parliament should issue an announcement to the Government in accordance with what is being asked for. The second reservation concerns beach protection. We note that during the spring of 2018, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture rejected 35 motions on beach protection on the grounds that the Riksdag should wait for the Government Office to prepare the matter and previous announcements from March 2017. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has made proposals for simplifications in the regulations that the Government also describes in the bill. We share the opinion of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, as stated in the opinion to the Committee on Economic Affairs, that, in the light of the ongoing preparation process, Parliament should leave the motion without action. Of course, changes to beach protection must be made in a balanced and thoughtful manner so as not to harm the attractiveness of the countryside either for residents or for tourists. We therefore welcome the in-depth analysis currently under way in the Government Office. However, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that a few weeks ago, from the Social Democrats, we left our view on the protection of the beach. We need a review. This must be done because today's beach protection rules, as we see it, are not adapted to our country's different conditions and needs. It is difficult to create attractive living environments in our countryside. We Social Democrats want to protect both the beaches and rural development opportunities. In our strong society, it will be possible to live, build and fulfill dreams in just the whole country. Madam President, I would like With a new focus for Sweden's rural areas, we write history today. Future faith is created for real, and Sweden is moving towards a brighter future with a country that is sticking together.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-34	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating rural policy and the report A coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas, as it is called. In the report, this policy does not seem to be so coherent given that there are 46 reservations. First of all, we can see that, after almost four years of power, the situation has not improved for the people of rural areas. The profitability of agricultural enterprises is declining. This government has mostly worked to produce fine documents, investigations and strategies. But it has not changed and made it easier for farmers or the countryside. Instead, it has continued to pursue an anti-rural policy, i.e. with continued regulatory problems, increased costs, poorer infrastructure and higher taxes. This government's policy has been four lost years for rural areas. Perhaps the report should be called instead: the government's collapse in rural policy. There are, of course, some parts of the report that everyone can support. There are fine wordings on the viability of rural areas and on equal opportunities for work, entrepreneurship, housing and welfare. It says that rural areas are one of the big pieces of the puzzle to meet environmental objectives in the future. Fine words are not enough in a report, Madam President, but action and a workshop are also needed if this is to become a reality. It's completely missing. Madam President, I would like What did the government do? Well, it has introduced higher fuel taxes that hit both the green industries in the countryside but also hard on the people who have the car as the only and absolutely necessary means of transport. It is about going to work, health care and driving children, going to dentists, football and riding school, visiting friends, leisure activities, visiting their parents and shopping and more. All these people with longer distances and the need for a car have received higher fuel taxes. Instead, the government has taken that money and used it to subsidise the city's new electric bicycles, for people with short distances and a fully expanded public transport system. It is really clear where the government intends to invest its money. Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic Government has fined the countryside with new petrol and diesel taxes and then used them to subsidise electric bicycles in the big cities. We will replace such a anti-rural government on 9 September. Let us really do this. Madam President, I would like The green industries are hardly described at all in the rural bill, even though they are the green industries that are the engine of rural areas. It's about soil, forest and water. Profitability and ownership must be strengthened with fewer rules and lower taxes, but the government does exactly the opposite. You raise the diesel tax. In addition, it is planned to introduce a kilometre tax which will reduce both the competitiveness and profitability of green industries and other rural businesses. Nor do they invest in roads that are absolutely essential for the country and the countryside. The expansion of longer and heavier truck transport is slowed down while Finland has already introduced this. Unfortunately, the Social Democratic Government is also slowing down the competitiveness of our forestry industries. Madam President, I would like Bad roads and worn-out railways are screaming for maintenance and expansion. Instead of remedying this, however, the Social Democratic Government is engaged in planning unprofitable high-speed trains between the country's three largest cities. Rural areas and the country's need for better roads and railways have to stand back for the government's big city fixation. The government believes it is more important for our big cities to be connected to new, unprofitable, unfunded high-speed trains than to renovate the main roads and roads around the country. As the country cries out for more housing, this government is trying to build them only in the big cities. The whole country's municipalities and countryside want better beach protection rules that could increase the construction of both permanent houses and holiday homes. Reformed beach protection could develop rural areas and make it possible to build attractive homes in lakeside areas in our municipalities. The Alliance and the Riksdag have requested a review of the beach protection, both spring 2015 and March 2017, but nothing happens. A finger has not been touched to facilitate increased housing along our lakes and streams. Madam President, I would like With the good memory of the government, the county administrative boards have continued to stop new accommodations along our lakes and streams. Where are your regulatory letters, your clarifications and your budget to the county administrative boards, which are governed by the government? You are responsible for their substandard work on the application of current beach protection rules. Why have you not looked at the beach protection, which the Alliance and the Parliament have actually decided on? Wake up and do something! Your passivity and beach protection rules hinder the construction of the entire country. Madam President, I would like We have about 39,000 miles of coastline in this country. Yet this government is doing nothing to increase the construction of our lakes and rivers. If rural areas are to develop and create jobs and growth, we must be able to seize the opportunity to build and live more by our lakes and streams. We need a government that seizes every opportunity in the countryside. This anti-rural government must be voted out on 9 September. Madam President, I would like Instead of affirming new opportunities for rural areas to develop for increased tourism and tourism tourism, this government works just the opposite. The first thing they did was try to close Bromma airport, which is the node for many of the country's smaller airports with direct contact with Stockholm. This airport the Social Democratic Government wanted to close down and instead build housing for Stockholmers. Yes, you yourself hear the conclusions of this government. They are prepared to sacrifice regional flights in the country for housing for people in Greater Stockholm. Madam President, I would like When Bromma airport has failed to close down, the next anti-rural measure will come. It has been planned to introduce a flight tax to increase the cost of air travel. It is a truly unique treasure that is nowhere else. Those who have tried to introduce it have withdrawn it. A flight tax endangers jobs, risks reducing tourism, makes it more difficult for our companies and reduces competitiveness. Airlines have already gone bankrupt, and northern Sweden is today without many of its air connections. Madam President, I would like Several departures from Sweden have been moved to Denmark and Norway. So when the Swedes travel, they must first fly to another country to take a flight to the USA from there. Is it anyone here who thinks it is good for the environment to make a take-off and landing extra because we have a flight tax in Sweden? This anti-rural aviation policy is not bad just for our jobs and businesses in this country. It is also bad for the environment. Madam President, I would like Tourists opt out of Sweden as it becomes more expensive to fly here. This reduces our visiting life. It will threaten thousands of jobs in Sweden. Companies get longer and more expensive trips to their markets and to their customer and supplier contacts. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a working flight throughout the country. We don't need any air taxes. If the whole country is to grow and develop, we need working aircraft, roads and railways. Sweden's countryside should not have to be taxed in criminal terms with a unique aviation tax. Sweden needs a new government that takes advantage of rural opportunities and removes this air tax. Let us see to it that this air tax is removed on 9 September this year. Madam President, I would like Reading this report clearly shows that the government has no rural policy. It was perhaps a little revealing when the Prime Minister expressed this clearly when he felt that the countryside was needed when tired urban dwellers are going out to rest. In the world of Social Democrats, the countryside is apparently for the people of the big cities. For me, it goes without saying that rural areas are an asset for the whole country that can provide jobs and growth for the whole of Sweden. We who live in the countryside are not resting. We have to toil and drag to deliver all the extra taxes and charges that this government has burdened us with, despite all the restrictions on our property rights and our land, forests, watercourses, lakes and beach protection. We are fighting in spite of the policy of this anti-rural government. Madam President, I would like Another activity that could contribute to the green industries and create more jobs is the farm sale of beer, wine and spirits. This is common throughout the world and is a great destination for many tourists. But the Social Democrats also say no to this. Farmers in the rest of the EU are entitled to EU refunds to keep the price of the goods down. However, Sweden's farmers have had to wait for their EU payments for two to three years. What if we farmers had ignored paying taxes or employers' contributions for two or three years? Then we would have had to stop. But this Social-Democratic government has allowed this to go on, and farmers have had to take the rap of sleeping out with their money. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Alliance have made two announcements in this report. One is that we want a reformed and simplified beach protection. The second is that, before removing the copper lines, one must have an alternative available. No one can stand completely without functioning networks. The Social Democrats have reservations about both of these proposals, which is very strange. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to strengthen competitiveness so that we can increase food and forest production and create jobs and growth in rural areas. We Moderates want to strengthen ownership, so that our forest and landowners will dare to buy and own their land without the state being able to seize the land. We Moderates want to reform beach protection, so that the municipalities can mainly decide how to build and live along our watercourses. We Moderates want the flight to work throughout Sweden, and we want to remove the airline tax. We Moderates say no to the government's proposal for new environmental zones, no to higher fuel taxes and no to new truck taxes. We Moderates want to give the opportunity to farm sales of beer, wine and spirits for increased tourism and more jobs in Sweden. We say no to unprofitable and unfunded high-speed trains, but we say yes to increased maintenance of roads and railways. We also want Lantmäteriet to work better than today. Today, it is an unreasonable length of processing times. Madam President, I would like We also want to set a deadline for maximum length of processing times for different authorities and government agencies. To conclude, I would like to support reservation 3.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-68	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats are of course behind all our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 4 on the direction of rural policy and regional growth policy and reservation 10 on general industrial efforts. Sweden's countryside is a multifaceted cultural landscape influenced by man for hundreds of generations. Natural resources, geography and human activity have shaped how these rural areas look and how they have evolved through the centuries. The rural population has a strong tradition of solving problems together and taking responsibility for their own development. This tradition offers good opportunities for sustainable development, where women and men, young and old, regardless of origin, are given equal opportunities to participate in development. In order to strengthen cohesion in Sweden, we need to take advantage of the diversity, creativity and knowledge that rural areas and their inhabitants offer. Rural industries create important jobs and contribute to a viable and vibrant rural environment. Food production, forestry, energy, hunting, fishing and tourism are examples of activities that use soil and natural resources and have a potential for growth and development. With better and more equal conditions, these industries can contribute to rural development and general welfare. Madam President, I would like Rural communities in Sweden employ an estimated 400 000 people, which is more than 9 per cent of all jobs in the country. In addition, there is all the employment created around these industries. The Swedish Democrats want to focus on simplifying the rules, reducing administrative costs, reducing the tax burden in order to establish an internationally competitive level and facilitating trade and exports. We propose, among other things, investment in small and medium-sized enterprises through the transfer of sick pay responsibility to the state and the abolition of the salary levy for the first three employees in small businesses. We are strongly critical of the continued increase in taxes on vehicles and fuels and reduced possibilities for travel deductions for work commuting. These measures hit Swedish jobs and rural areas without any measurable impact on environmental problems globally. In a departmental spromemoria, it is proposed to introduce a road wear tax on heavy goods vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. Regardless of the type of tax introduced at a distance, these will be placed on top of already existing taxes. A road wear tax would hit extra hard in northern Sweden where distances are longer and alternative transport options are lacking. The Swedish Democrats believe that it must be easier to run companies in Sweden. All policies and practices of government should be based more on promoting competitiveness and growth throughout Sweden. Many rural businesses have to spend a lot of money and spend a lot of effort on administration that takes time from their core business. It is clear that Sweden has too many rules that do not match the benefits. We would therefore like to see a model for systematic regulatory simplification where, among other things, organisations related to rural industries are given the opportunity to submit to the government proposals for rules that are to be prioritised regarding improvement or removal. The Government will then take a position on and respond to these proposals annually in a separate letter to the Riksdag. Responsible authorities will apply EU regulations and implement EU directives in a way that provides a good competitive environment for rural communities. The Swedish Board of Agriculture will continue to work towards simplified rules and more generous interpretations regarding rural programmes and direct payments. Madam President, I would like As regards rural housing, we want to make it easier for young people to find housing by increasing mobility in the housing market. We want to do this through a special, deductible form of savings for housing savings and simpler regulations for rental. We are also in favour of specific rural loans for the construction of rural areas. The Swedish democrats want to draw a limit at a maximum of 100 metres of beach protection, which should be regulated to a greater extent at municipal level. In many places, beach protection of several hundred metres has become an obstacle to development and new construction. Current legislation and application around water and sewers in many cases hamper the possibility of living in rural areas and therefore need to be reformed. Madam President, I would like A secured cash handling and payment service shall be provided throughout the country. The State must also ensure that there is adequate access to telephony throughout the country. In more pronounced rural areas, access to health care also needs to be improved, including maternity and emergency care. There should be a local police presence so that there is a reasonable possibility of getting help when you are exposed to crime, no matter where in the country you live. A rural policy must stand on several legs. In some cases the state should invest more in regional development, and we are in favour of an active and decentralised industrial policy. A viable countryside is linked to a functioning public service and a viable business community throughout the country.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-81	Madam President, I would like It is a joyous day for those of us who are passionate about the countryside. As a rural resident, forest owners, hunters and outdoor people, I find it incredibly enjoyable that we are here today and together can adopt the goals of a policy of specialisation for Sweden's rural areas. It is NU19, which deals with the bill A coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas, that we are going to debate here today. We have two reservations, and I am, of course, behind them both, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of our reservation 27, which deals with the protection of the beach. We are going to talk about rural policy, but I would like to start by saying a few words about the protection of the beach. I look with concern at how more and more parties want to undermine the protection of the beach. When it was last debated and the new policy was adopted in 2009 on LIS areas, there was agreement that the protection of the shore is incredibly important to protect, but that there was a need to enable certain developments. Therefore, the LIS areas were developed. Beach protection has been in place since the 1950s, among other things to facilitate mobile outdoor life and the biodiversity of watercourses, lakes and seas. Many of our most acutely threatened species are located in the borderland between water and land. We can also see now in the time of climate change that good beach protection provides greater resilience, a resilience, in society. We will have higher water levels and greater rainfall in the future. It is strange that these notes come now that we see that the changes that were made make it build more in beach protection areas. We had 6,000 new constructions by the sea in 2014 and 9,000 in 2016. So it increased very much. In lakes and watercourses, the number increased between 2014 and 2016 from 16,000 to 17,000. The review that has now been carried out and that is being prepared in the Government Office, I believe, will respond to many of these questions and show that we should shape our policies according to what actually exists and not by what we believe. Let me go back to the report that we are going to debate. Today, the focus is on the different challenges facing rural areas. Almost four years ago, I took part in my first rural debate in this House as a spokesperson of the Green Party's rural policy. I spoke at the time about the rapid urbanisation that is taking place and that urban and rural areas are often put against each other and in relation to each other. We see that the city becomes the norm and city dwellers are seen as winners while rural people are seen as losers. The fact that people are mobile and move is not wrong. Living and living wherever you want is something amazing. It can be different during life when you want to live in the city and when you want to live in the countryside. But it will be wrong if the move is made because you feel hopeless and because there is nothing left at home or that you do it because you do not want to be seen as someone who was left behind and someone who has not succeeded. Then something's wrong. I said then, four years ago, that we must raise the value of the countryside, recognise the status of the countryside and do just as well to live in the city as in the countryside. I think we're on our way now. Something has happened in these four years. In the past, not many people talked about rural issues. They have gone from being in the dark to actually becoming a central part of the political conversation. There have been several programmes in both radio and television that depict the countryside from different dimensions and perspectives. We also see that interest in food has increased interest in getting out into the countryside. The most recent example was that in Örnsköldsvik the Rural Parliament actually had all party leaders in place except one, and it was a debate on rural issues. What if something says well that the countryside is on the agenda. The Green Party wants to develop the rural role as a motor for Sweden's transition to a more sustainable society with a special focus on food, energy and resource management. We want to invest in reducing regional disparities and improving the conditions for people to work, live and live in rural areas. We must ensure good communications and invest in trains, public transport and carpooling throughout the country. We need to promote entrepreneurship and employment in order to achieve a sustainable and equal working life. We need a rural-proof policy. It's something this government has been working on. It must not be said: We did not think about it. We did a reform, and it hit the cities great, but it didn't get at all so good where people don't live as close. Rural goggles and policies must be put on. We have also changed the way this is done during this government's time. We have changed the payment of some state aid and so on. But we cannot just have a rural-proof policy. We must also have a rural policy. That is where the food we eat is produced, the material for our houses grows, where renewable energy is produced. What is happening now must also happen in the future. There are specialities in rural areas that do not quite strike in the same way where people live more densely. That's what this bill shows. When you look at the headlines in the report, you can see that it is no longer just about the green industries when you talk about rural policy, but about the whole of society. Looking at the orientation objectives that we all but one of the parties are behind, it is precisely about ensuring that we take advantage of rural capacity for entrepreneurship and employment in a sustainable way while achieving environmental objectives. Rural areas will contribute to a positive development of the Swedish economy. Rural areas will strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and development to a secular, bio-based and fossil-free economy, sustainable use of natural resources and meet relevant environmental quality objectives. We must have a level playing field for people to work, live and live in rural areas. If we go back and look at the headlines, we see that this government has already taken hold of this. If we look at business and entrepreneurship, we have made major investments in tourism and on, for example, operating aid for country stores that are incredibly important in many small places to keep an engine in the community. We have protection of nature. We have a growing support for companies. If you look at digital communication and telephony, which is so incredibly important for us to meet today, we have made a historic broadband initiative. We have increased our ambitions from the old government to have 100% broadband coverage, and we have introduced a broadband guarantee that came into force on 1 March. When we look at the transport infrastructure, we have big investments. The other day we presented a historic investment on road and rail throughout the country. When we look at the supply of skills, we have facilitated remote learning. This means that school classes with too few students to have a teacher can still take that competence from elsewhere – this to keep the school in the village. We also have major investments in regional higher education institutions that build educational places. You can learn your whole life. When it comes to urban planning and housing construction, the pace of housing construction is increasing, not only in the cities but also throughout the country. We also see other benefits for those who have housing with solar power support and so on. We're investing in cultural school. You can now see the cinema in almost all of Sweden in a completely different way than before. We've relocated a lot of government agencies and government jobs. Instead of concentrating on the city, we are now beginning to relocate them in the country again. The fact that there are jobs there will also be an engine for people to move there. This and many other things we have already done, and there is a lot that we want to do in the future. We can also see that the environmental investments made are important for nature and for rural areas. In my hometown – I come from Lysekil as a previous speaker here – the state money for beach cleaning is useful, not only because the beaches are nice but also for tourism and local jobs. Life in the country is so much more than just production and returns. We should not just produce products that make society roll. Rural areas are not just a production unit to supply people with goods. It is also a marvelously beautiful nature, a teeming diversity and a stunning silence. It is forest walks, kayak trips and to go out into nature and just be. You also get the feeling of avoiding the city's stress and walking at your own pace. You see animals grow up, trees become wood. You can teach a small class or drive garbage, be a district nurse, a realtor, or work with what you want. You're supposed to have every opportunity where you are. There is a reason why people choose to live in rural areas. We must ensure that the role of politics is to create the conditions for these societies to remain. They're supposed to be part of society and nothing you hold under your arms. We must have a policy that makes rural areas self-sustaining, and we have started with that. This bill focuses on a new rural policy and the consensus that prevails on these objectives across party boundaries. The work of the Rural Committee, which is the basis for this, is sufficient to ensure that it is now springing for the countryside. I hope we can be coherent, at least in that.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-114	Madam President, I would like I was a little curious now considering that there are so many different messages about the beach protection in Sweden. We have only made a proposal in 2015 and since 2017 that we want a review of this. Then we have heard all along that the announcement is being prepared at the Government Office. My first question is: how far has this preparation of beach protection really come? When will we see a bill or a proposal on how to proceed with this review that the Riksdag has announced to the Government? I would like to ask the next question, given that representatives of the government have gone out and said that they are in favour of reviewing the protection of the beach. But here you reserve Social Democrats and you environmentalists against our review. Is the government not in agreement on this? Do you have two lines? Parts of the government think we should review and parts of the government think that we should do nothing about the beach shelter? It would be good to have a clarification of how much you agree on these regulations, whether you are a united government or whether you are divided into two parts. Madam President, I would like The third question concerns the fuel tax, which has increased quite substantially, partly because of the world market price and partly because you have imposed a great many additional taxes during this period. Does Emma Nohrén think that the price of fuel today is reasonable? Is it a reasonable level of petrol now that we are currently just over $1 (U.S.)? Madam President, I would like A minister has gone out and said that there will be a kilometre tax this autumn. My fourth question is: how far has this proposal come? What's the level? What billions of dollars have been planned for the mileage tax presented this autumn?
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for those questions, Sten Bergheden! You said there were four questions, but I understood that there were two that were about beach protection and that were actually the same thing. As it says in our reservation that we have together with the Social Democrats, the investigation that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has submitted is prepared within the Government Office. I think Bergheden will have to ask the Minister who is in the government how far you have come. I do not have that transparency in the work of the government. It goes without saying that we all parties in the Swedish Parliament have different entrances when it comes to beach protection. I do not think there is any consensus within the Alliance on how to develop this either. I suppose you have friends within your four-leaf clover who don't want to review the beach shelter at all in the way you advocate. Different trade-offs are being made there. Today we can see that the beach shelter is smaller than before. It was a reform that took place in 2009 when beach protection was reduced by 30%. So 70% of the beach shelter is still there. The discussion that arose probably made more and more people aware of what beach protection actually means, which means that we are now debating it in a completely different way. Then you had a question about fuel tax. For almost a month we have had temperatures of almost 30 degrees. There are ice that melts. Sten Bergheden's answer to climate change is that we should fly more and go more car. I don't see it that way. We have to do what we can. A tax on fossil fuels is probably good to redirect to a fossil-free Sweden that we have all agreed on. If you look at Moderates' environmental policy, it's not much to hang on the Christmas tree. As far as I know, you want to cut 38% of the environmental budget. I do not really know which countryside or road you want to leave behind for your children and grandchildren.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-127	Madam President, I would like As I understand it, the Government Office is not in agreement. If you do not agree that this is really to be done, one might wonder whether the beach shelter is being prepared at all now. I doubt it. The second part deals with fuel taxes. I understand that environmentalist Emma Nohrén thinks that they are on a reasonable level and that Sweden's rural population should pay more than SEK 16 to keep the ice from melting. In the first place, rural people lack alternatives. Secondly, I think-- but I may be wrong-- that people out there contribute very little to the ice melting given the amount of fuel they use. It is absolutely necessary for everything to work there. I also have another question for Emma Nohrén, environmentalist. During the days, the LRF Consultant presented a report showing that the profitability of agriculture is falling. It sinks in all the industries. You have now been in power for four years. There is a clear trend which has led to a fall in profitability. Feed, fertilizers and other things have become more expensive due to a weaker crown and fuel taxes that have pushed up the price. It also depends on the world market price. Does Emma Nohrén think that competitiveness needs to be strengthened or weakened for agriculture? You have been able to reduce the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture during your four years. Are we heading in the right direction with this policy? Or are you prepared to review taxes and regulations to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers?
i-9vQ6TZixzUPCeCETGwUD6N	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Sten Bergheden, for the questions. I can start where Sten Bergheden ended, i.e. with rules and rules. Rules shouldn't just be in place to complicate things. If there are rules, they must have a purpose. There are many elements within which simplification can probably be made. However, for a large part of our agricultural policy, decisions are taken at European level. It is important that we negotiate well when the CAP is redesigned in 2020 so that we make it more suitable for Swedish conditions. However, I see no intrinsic value in having rules to complicate things. Of course it should be as simple and smooth as possible to be an entrepreneur. Taxes and charges on fossil energy are a way for us to change society. Agriculture and agriculture have an exception to the new tax increase. There is therefore already a reduction in fuel tax in order to ensure that agriculture is competitive and able to play with the rest of the EU. I believe that the food strategy we have developed and the objectives we have jointly set are a good way to provide long-term rules of play for Sweden's farmers. I think they appreciate this and see that we actually want to do something that is good for Swedish agriculture. They have a role to play both in the transition and in food security. Swedish raw material from agriculture and forestry is fantastic and in itself also means competitiveness. That's what we're gonna protect.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-134	Madam President, I would like What is rural? According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, 197 of Sweden's 290 municipalities are rural municipalities or sparse rural municipalities. There are almost as many definitions in rural areas as there are authorities and organisations. We who live in the countryside have our own definition. It's a long way to the store. School's down. The mail and the bank have disappeared. There's potholes in the way. Public transport is not the best. Trains are slowing down. The Forest Board bans the use of my forest, which we have managed for generations. The problem of predators is ignored. And the police could be three hours away. This was an introduction with some personal reflections and perhaps even some frustration. I had great hopes for the government's rural bill. The Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development did a great job and, after a year and a half, unanimously presented 75 proposals which could reverse development and reduce regional exclusion, which in turn could threaten the cohesion of society. When a month remained until the bill was to be presented, the Government and the Government Bucht invited Bucht to negotiate. I and the Center Party believe that the Rural Committee's investigation was a pre-negotiated product. Why should we, who had already negotiated once and who are behind all the proposals, sit back and negotiate again when it is not a question of sharp proposals but of intentions? The only thing we in Parliament have to take a position on is one objective, and it is: a viable countryside with equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, work, housing and welfare that leads to sustainable development throughout the country. That is basically the same objective as the Rural Committee proposed, and there is nothing wrong with it. But where did the 75 sharp suggestions go? The government's not going to implement them? Why shoot them at the future? Following the Food Strategy, the Rural Bill and the Forest Programme, a clear pattern can be identified from the Minister for Rural Development. First, we'll get our expectations up. Then we will deliver a contentless intent document. Then let's say, this is historic. Now it's turning around! But when it comes to real action, it's like waiting for Godot. Madam President, I would like I will now say something about what the Center Party and the Alliance want with rural development. The Center Party wants to start with the whole country, not just for the whole country to live. There is a degree difference in terms that I think is essential. In order for rural areas to be managed and deliver even more growth to Sweden, rural areas need a number of conditions. We need infrastructure to deliver high-tech equipment from the industries, to transport forests and steel and to deliver biofuels and biofuels to the big cities. We need flights because the distances are large, and we need to be able to get to where the market is. We need skilled labour in both the private and public sectors. We need competitive costs. We don't need any punitive taxes at a distance. We need to be able to build homes in attractive places. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to move power and influence closer to people. This can be done by decentralising both responsibilities and tasks from state level to elected regional parliaments. The Alliance believes that a future rural policy must help to strengthen confidence in the public sector by ensuring that public authorities act in the best interests of the citizen, not the state. It is a major failure that people in rural areas feel abandoned by the state or feel that they are being opposed by the authorities. Many rural entrepreneurs, in their contacts with authorities, feel that the regulatory framework is still too complicated and that a lot of time is spent on administration and management. Products from the soil, forests and water are the basis of the rural economy. General relief is needed to run businesses, not least in the green and blue industries. We would also like to draw attention to the potential of food production to create jobs throughout the country if competitiveness is fundamentally strengthened. Madam President, I would like The tourism industry is an important industry in rural areas that has not yet reached its full potential. Measures that can foster growth for the tourism industry, such as cost reductions and lower costs of setting up a business and hiring, are therefore a high priority for the Center Party. Even today there are a number of smaller producers of alcoholic beverages who receive visitors, but their activities are limited by the fact that they are not allowed to sell their products directly to customers. Just as it is allowed today to sell locally produced cheeses and sausages on a farm, the Center Party believes that it should also be allowed to sell self-produced beer and wine and self-produced cider to the farm's visitors. Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes the Rural Committee's proposal to introduce a service guarantee for small and medium-sized enterprises. In several parts of the country, the so-called Rättviks model has been introduced. It is a dialogue-based authorisation and supervision procedure for municipal officials. I know this model because Rättvik is my neighboring municipality at home in Dalarna. The Center Party wants to commission selected authorities to develop working methods in line with the Rättviks model for increased dialogue. I note that many parts of the green industries, not least agriculture, face urgent challenges that require immediate and longer-term action. The Center Party therefore proposes to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture through a so-called peasant package with reduced costs in agriculture. Furthermore, we do not think that agriculture should be seen as an environmentally dangerous activity. It is also important to be clear that the food procured by municipalities and the state must at least meet the requirements of Swedish rules. Madam President, I would like For us, ownership is a fundamental right and a guiding principle. Ownership, responsibility and authority go hand in hand. What you own, you care for. Therefore, the principle of freedom under responsibility must continue to apply to Swedish forestry policy. Modern agriculture and forestry lead to climate and environmental benefits throughout the world, not just in Sweden. To take a concerted approach to the business opportunities of moving to a bio-based society, we need to develop a national strategy for a bio-based economy. There is a need to create conditions for green chemistry with products and processes that reduce or completely eliminate the use or formation of dangerous substances. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the right of use for nature conservation. It is often in pastures, in the forest maintained for generations and on meadows that the natural values and biodiversity are greatest. Therefore, I believe that the compulsory disposal of forests should not take place unless compensation can be paid at the time of infringement. Reimbursement models and national guidelines for the compulsory disposal of agricultural and forestry land and the creation of water protection areas need to be reviewed and clarified. Ownership and use rights must also be strengthened in the instructions to the Swedish Forest Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards. Madam President, I would like The Center Party, like the Rural Committee, proposes that people living and working in 23 particularly vulnerable municipalities should be able to obtain a write-off of student debt. I see depreciation of student debt as an important measure to facilitate the provision of skills in rural and rural areas. Furthermore, I believe that a system of regionally differentiated social security contributions should be introduced. This would create an unbureaucratic and easy way to improve the business environment in parts of Sweden that have major challenges with, among other things, demography. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning infrastructure is a basic prerequisite for living rural areas. The individual roads are a very extensive part of the Swedish transport infrastructure, and they ensure accessibility for the industry and enable 1 million people every day to get to and from work. I also think that regional railways must be given greater priority in infrastructure efforts. If an increasing share of resources is used to solve infrastructure problems in growth areas, regional fragmentation will continue to increase. In many parts of the country, the car or flight is essential for living and working. I believe that the policy, rather than focusing on penal taxes such as kilometre tax and aviation tax, which do not really have a major environmental impact, must focus on phasing out fossil fuels and replacing them with both efficiency, electrification and other sustainable fuels. Madam President, I would like Today, 55% of Sweden's surface area is covered by national interests. That's an unreasonably large part of it. The system of national interest has received criticism from, among others, the National Audit Office, which notes that the government's handling of national interests makes it difficult for municipalities to plan for housing. And it has long been clear that the system is obsolete and unwieldy. In addition to the regular topicality review proposed by the government, we believe, like the Rural Committee, that there is also a need for a comprehensive limitation and clarification of these areas. In addition, the application of the system of national interest needs to be changed. Madam President, I would like The Center Party's view is that the protection of the beach needs to be substantially reformed and that the municipalities themselves should be allowed to decide on the protection of the beach, with the exception of certain specially designated protected areas. Furthermore, it is important not to unnecessarily complicate the use of existing dwellings. This applies, for example, to the rules on individual sewers. There, Sweden should introduce a similar model as in Finland to ensure that both state and individual money makes the greatest possible environmental benefit. The possibility of reasonableness assessments taking into account actual environmental impacts and the cost of the measure should also be introduced and clarified. Madam President, I would like A variety of actors in the welfare sector create opportunities when the municipality's village school or the region's health care centre is threatened with closure or has closed down. Both companies and civil society often have the ability and willingness to take over and pursue welfare activities, not infrequently with a broader service than before. Therefore, the alliance parties believe that it is important to safeguard the ability to run schools and care in different forms of operation. For us, it is important that the focus is on delivering public services of equivalent quality throughout the country and in all operations – whether municipal, regional, state or private. It shall be operated with clearer criteria for good quality, and the activities shall be continuously monitored. Madam President, I would like The healthcare queues have increased dramatically since the current government took office, and the regional disparities are huge. The Center Party proposes an accessibility billion that means that people regardless of where they live in the country will be allowed to see a doctor and get the right care. For us to get fast and proper care, primary care needs to be expanded, and it must be possible for smaller care units to start on a very small scale, perhaps with just one doctor and one nurse. In recent decades, the state's activities have been highly centralised into major cities and regional centres. The Center Party wants more of the state's functions to be carried out in smaller locations where the cost pressure is lower. The aim of the Parliamentary Rural Committee to decentralise 10 000 public jobs is therefore very important and should, in the opinion of the Center Party, be seen as a floor for the level of ambition. I welcome the government's efforts to relocate authorities. At the same time, it must be noted that a large number of jobs are to be moved to Gothenburg, Malmö, Botkyrka or other regional centres that are already experiencing strong growth. The Center Party shares the Rural Committee's intention that government jobs should be distributed throughout the country in order to strengthen growth outside large cities and regional centres. Madam President, I would like Ensuring people's safety and security is one of the most important tasks of the state. Security must be protected throughout the country, whether you live in the big city, in the countryside or in remote areas. The police must be present, accessible and visible to people throughout the country. The right to security and the police coming when you need help should be one of the most fundamental elements of a functioning rule of law. Yet it has become more evident than ever that the right to security depends on where in the country you live. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that tax policy should be used as a tool for growth creation throughout the country. This can be done by regionalising property taxes from electricity-producing properties, such as hydroelectric power and wind power. By regionalising parts of the state property tax, we strengthen the level of regional decision-making and the ability of the regions to pursue growth-friendly policies based on their own circumstances. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse reservations 3, 11 and 40.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-167	Madam President, I would like Two years ago, I was on the Swedish Rural Parliament on Gotland. Then the old environmentalist Birger Schlaug Schlaug on stage and said that it was lame to deal with rural politics in Parliament. I remember how angry I was. I remember that Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party was also very angry. We were both going up on stage and barking him out right away, but you have impulse control and instead remained in the bench row and were angry. Two weeks ago it was a rural holiday in Örnsköldsvik. At that time, seven out of eight party leaders were on stage debating rural policy. Suddenly Ö-vik and the countryside were in the center. All the media were there, and what was debated in Ö-vik became directly national news. So something has happened in Swedish politics. During this term of office, rural areas have gone from being a very small issue in politics to being a central aspect and an important perspective that permeates an increasing number of policy areas. We're not there yet. There's still a lot to do. But right now the urban norm is being challenged. And it is done by all of us who are fighting for the countryside, whether we are Christian Democrats or left-wing parties, writers or rural fighters. It has spread an urban norm, where what is associated with the city is seen as positive while what is associated with the countryside is seen as negative. Rural areas are described as old-fashioned and stagnant in contrast to the modern and dynamic city. The inhabitants of rural areas are often described in a glaring or even condescending way. A recent example is that my debate article from today, on the occasion of this debate, was pictured with a picture of an unpainted barn wall. This is partly the result of the development of the media landscape, where the concentration of journalists in the big cities has increased significantly. It has been like reporting abroad to tell us what is happening in rural areas. The norm reinforces the differences between city and country, which prevents a Sweden that stays together. A policy that is not based on an urban norm is therefore also needed, but highlights rural areas from a positive perspective. The Left Party was the initiator of the Rural Committee, and I was privileged to be our representative on the Committee. I can see today that we have made a difference. We have put rural areas on the agenda. The involvement of the Rural Committee has been great. This is shown not least by the over 400 referrals to our work. The fact that even the municipality of Stockholm leaves a referral also shows that it understands the power of what is happening. Today we are taking several important steps for rural areas. Several of the Rural Committee's proposals are now being implemented, and for the first time we have goals for Swedish rural policy for our authorities to follow. Today, in many respects, we are laying the foundations for a national rural policy. In fact, the EU's entry destroyed most of the national rural policies that used to exist. Left were a few posts on the hill with reduced electricity tax and transport subsidies. Otherwise, rural policy was managed by the EU, regions, municipalities or, in the worst case, only by the local village community. Now it's time for something else. Now is the time for a national rural policy that matters seriously. However, a few bricks are still missing in the building, and these are the ones I hope we will debate today. I also think that the question you should ask yourself when listening to this debate is how disagreeable we really are. When M oderatian party leader Ulf Kristersson was asked if he was behind the rural bill, he raised the sign and said that yes, the Moderates were mainly behind it, and then there were some changes that they wanted to make. It is a rather sharp contrast to what we hear Sten Bergheden say here today, and I think you should remember what his party leader said. I believe that we have both unity and disagreement, and that is important in order for us to have a good rural debate. Without unity, there will be no long-term vision for Sweden's rural areas. Without dissension, the rural debate lacks the nerve and can easily be pushed away from the agenda again. It was therefore a good thing that the Rural Committee was striving for a great deal of agreement. At the same time, it is a bit of a pity that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and the bourgeois parties did not manage to stick together around the parts they agreed on, but instead ended up in party tactising before the elections. We in the Left Party have shown throughout our term of office that we are prepared to negotiate if it leads to people getting better off in Sweden. We have negotiated the rural bill with the government and are pleased that this week we can also decide on it. However, we should have been able to go even further. We have also made other important efforts, such as 2.6 billion to 30 rural municipalities. That's what we've been calling fair eminences. Sweden is unequal, and inequality is visible on the map – both on the map of Sweden and on the city bus map. The money is located in the centre, in the big cities and in the city centres. At the same time, rural areas, places of use and suburbs tap into the spirit. The disappointed parts of Sweden have one thing in common: When market forces are given free leeway, shops are closed and jobs disappear. The market only asks how many people can pay. Our policy is about setting priorities other than those of the market. In recent decades, however, the public has often been the first to leave the countryside to its fate. In this way, both social eocratic and bourgeois governments have pushed the geographical divides. One area where it was clear that the bourgeois parties in the committee did not want us to make any sharp proposals was around pharmacies. In the privatisation carried out by the bourgeois government, rural areas have been an obvious loser. When the market is allowed to decide, resources are drawn to the centre. No new pharmacy has opened in the countryside, and those who are there have often had a reduced supply. Above all, the bourgeois government was forced to introduce a rural grant of SEK 10 million for the rural pharmacies to remain. Tax payers have thus paid both the price of privatisation and the contribution to maintaining pharmacies. And yet it's not helping. For those living in Klarälvdalen, this summer closes our pharmacy for eleven weeks. It is longer than the Members of Parliament's holiday. This means a 50 minutes longer trip to get to a pharmacy. It didn't even help me get the Rural Committee on a study visit. No – the market never meets the challenges of rural areas. That is why the Apoteket should have been renationalised. The post office will arrive, the pharmacy will have medicine, the bank office will have cash and the police will have time to pull out. Car testing and pharmacy must be state-owned and have a reasonable distribution across the country. Each new state authority should be located outside the major cities, and more relocations need to be made. In fact, state companies have a responsibility for the whole of Sweden. It should also be possible for those working in shortage jobs to have student loans written off if they live and work in sparsely populated areas. A basic condition for people to live and work in rural areas at all is an expanded public infrastructure. Agriculture and forestry must be carried out in a sustainable way in the long term. Sweden should be a country that holds together. Our common wealth that is created throughout the country will also benefit the whole country. There are many of us who have been affected by the policies that have been, but now it is time for another policy. Now it's our turn. Before entering the Riksdag, I worked as a manager for a local development group within Leader. When the current programming period started up, the Swedish Board of Agriculture decided to exclude five areas in Sweden. The five excluded areas comprise 437 000 rural inhabitants in 31 municipalities in eight counties from north to south. They are all areas that have been present in the past, where local skills and experience have been built up for a long time. Not having them leads to a less coherent rural policy. It is therefore a good thing that it can be stated through the rural bill that it will never happen again. The Leader method should be used for local development throughout the country. The government should have done more earlier, but today's decision is a clear signal of what will apply to the next programming period, starting after 2020. Like the rest of society, rural areas are not equal. Men and women have different standards and opportunities to relate. Since rural areas are often characterised by traditions, it risks cementing solid, unequal structures. Statistics show that more women than men move from rural areas. At the same time, there are studies showing that more women would like to live in rural areas if the urban climate was a little better. Statistics by county administrative boards Speaking of women and men, it is shown that men's take-up of parental benefit in rural municipalities varies and that in some places it is very low. Previous studies of the rural development programme have shown that despite the intention to contribute to gender equality, the existing gender standards are more firmly cemented. This is due to the design of support schemes that benefit men, who generally want to make large investments while women generally want to make step-by-step efforts. Now that, after negotiations with the Left Party, the government has decided to establish a gender equality agency, it is a golden position to shape equality in areas where success and results have been difficult in the past. Therefore, the government should instruct the relevant authorities to make proposals for an equal rural policy. There are also other decisions that should be reviewed. One such decision is the operating grant to Winnet Sweden. It is clear that the government's suspension of support has had an impact on the integration of the gender perspective in the implementation of cohesion policy. Another move that came during the Rural Parliament was that the Green Party promised to introduce a so-called district epeng for wind power or, as we from the Left Party have chosen to call it, local compensation. It is an important step in principle to ensure that wind turbines also return compensation to the areas where they are located. This would both create rural development, shift Sweden's energy supply and perhaps reduce possible resistance to possible wind power installations. That is why we wonder why Emma Nohrén and the Green Party are not voting in favour of this proposal. In the bill and the media, the government has flagged on the proposal to proceed with the calculation of study funding in sparsely populated municipalities. Norway, which is often rightly highlighted as a good example in the Swedish debate, has shown that depreciation facilitates the recruitment of important skills in North Norway. The welfare sector, in particular, is facing enormous recruitment needs in the coming years, and this is a reasonable tool to get out of the toolbox. The Rural Committee has produced a reasonable proposal with a 10% credit for student debt each year. The government should move on with the proposal as soon as possible. A good first step is that it will shortly be planned to set up an investigation so that the proposal can be adapted to the current regulatory system. In this report, the government is making an announcement that there will be reasonable alternatives when Telia dismantles the copper network. It is right that the government is given this announcement for its flatness towards Telia. The problem has been around for a long time and all the time vu x in t in strength. Without cell phone coverage, no internet and no fixed telephony. It is soon reality for example for residents in the villages outside Hällbo just south of Bollnäs. Or, as Rolf, one of the residents, says: and if we go to Telia, they refer to Bollnäs municipality. And if we go to Bollnäs municipality, they refer back to Telia. It's the little man against the great powers. You can't get anywhere. ..................................................... Telia is a partly state-owned company. The government will also be able to make demands on Telia. The government could also have gone other ways, but it has not wanted to do so, and so it deserves today's announcement from the Riksdag. In the report, the bourgeois parties, with the help of the Swedish Democrats, get through a declaration to reform beach protection, despite the fact that the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture recommended that no announcement should be made but that the government's preparation should be postponed. Recently, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposed changes to the application of so-called LIS areas – rural development in coastal locations – in order to facilitate the establishment of LIS areas by rural municipalities. Despite this, the Center Party went out and now wants to abolish beach protection. Soon the Social Democrats followed, without the government partner, the Green Party, and wanted to loosen up the beach protection. I think it is important to remember that the beach protection in Sweden has been an important measure to protect our beaches and shorelines. This has meant that the public has access to the beaches to a large extent without private restrictions. Now that beach protection is loosened or completely removed, it can lead to rich people with private interests taking over. This is the case in many other countries around the world. I can't stop thinking about an example that a friend told me. It may be a little extreme, but the example is from the United States. My friend was going to visit a lake he wanted to swim in, but to bathe you had to pay three dollars. But he could at least bathe his feet; it was free. Perhaps the most important thing to remember is that a change in beach protection is a small issue for rural development. There are a lot of factors that are more important. Yet it is this issue that we end up in over and over again. Some that are important to the countryside are the country merchants. They are often a local hub in a district. Often there is more service than just food, such as mail, system companies, pharmacy agents and sometimes also a gambling store. During this parliamentary term, we have certainly made it better for Sweden's country merchants. First, a state operating aid of 35 million was introduced, and this year it has been raised to 70 million according to demands from the Left Party for more rural traders to receive support. Now is the time to take the next step. Further measures need to be taken to make it easier for the country traders to improve services in rural areas. The Government should instruct the state-owned companies Postnord, Apoteket, Systembolaget and Svenska Spel to return with suggestions on how to increase the remuneration of local agents. The four companies should also coordinate their representation services better as a package solution so that the country retailers can more easily take part in the company's offering. State-owned companies also have a responsibility to create rural development. Having said that, I would like to endorse Amendment No 34.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-209	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for your speech! You almost sound like a center party. I could list five six things where the Left Party has approached the Center Party. It could be Leader and Winnet, regional tax bases, copper networks and other things. As Håkan himself pointed out, he was part of the Rural Committee's parliamentary group. I would like to know how the discussion went when Minister Bucht invited for negotiation. It was about the 75 proposals on which everyone agreed. What concrete proposals did the Left Party get into the bill of the 75? Is the Left Party satisfied with its strong negotiating position on the matter? I'd like to ask you questions about the beach shelter. Håkan is a rural friend. Does he see no problem at all with the fact that there are 300 meters of beach shelter for some lakes? Does he not see that people in the countryside are annoyed that they are not allowed to build near the water, even if there is a way that is distinctive – but then it must be a county road for you to build near the water? Don't Håkan Svenneling see any problems with the beach shelter? What separates the Left Party and the Center Party is that Håkan is a strong friend of the state and believes that state companies should manage the rural future.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-213	Madam President, I would like Just as Peter Helander agreed with my description, I agree in part with Peter's description. There is a certain proximity between the Center Party and the Left Party on rural issues, but there is also, as Peter is concerned, a clear difference in which I highlight what the state can do more and point to what market problems are. Market-liberal center parties are happy to talk about local policies, but when they come to the concrete proposals, they let the market decide and govern what rural development we should actually get. It is there somewhere, in that tension, that I find interesting to discuss rural policy. I think the Left Party has done well during its term of office. We have taken responsibility for the fact that Sweden has been able to be governed and function. We have had budget cooperation with the government but at the same time been a clear opposition party and criticised the government when it has gone too slow. Like Peter, I have often felt frustrated that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has done no more for Sweden's rural areas. At the same time, I feel that the Left Party has been involved in delivering many concrete proposals that have made it better. The fair settlements for the failed Sweden, 2.6 billion, will be in place for ten years to come. If the Center Party takes responsibility even in a bourgeois government, the Left Party will do so in a red-green government because the billions remain. They are important initiatives to improve the economy of the weakest municipalities in Sweden. We have also made sure that farmers have received better support. The bill is a little thin in some parts. It contains things that are targets for our state authorities. There are some clear wordings that go in the right direction. There is a study on the travel allowance which I believe will be incredibly important for the rural population in the future. It is things and processes that have been set in motion but that are not yet in goal. That's a good thing. We have pushed the development forward. To some extent, all the parties in the Rural Committee have done so together, and to some extent we have done so as individual parties. I'd love to answer your question about beach protection, Peter, but I'll have to get back to it in the next line.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-221	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling says that the bill this year is thin in some parts. Then I ask my question again: what concrete proposals of the 75 proposals that we are going to vote on on Thursday in Parliament were passed by the Left Party in negotiations with the government? Håkan gets a chance to answer the question about the beach shelter once more. I can also add something about government companies. Håkan Svenneling will remember the discussion about the relocation of jobs from Jokkmokk that the state Vattenfall carried out. Does Håkan Svenneling think that government companies do the work well? Do they take their regional responsibility? Do the authorities take their regional responsibility? I myself have been affected in my municipality by authorities moving from the municipality. These are very strange arguments, such as the fact that it is not because of the economy but because the authorities can find better skills in larger cities. Then rural areas are drained in public authorities and jobs. We need all the jobs available to academics. Håkan is welcome to come back to the issue of the beach shelter.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-226	Madam President, I would like The most important decision we make on Thursday is that it becomes a goal for Swedish rural policy. It will be a goal for all government agencies to work towards. I would have liked it to have automatically meant all state-owned companies because I agree with Peter Helander's description that state-owned companies today do not take responsibility for Swedish rural development. They need to do more, and this is done by the government being clearer in its governance of the state companies. You're not today. Other important things that become clear about the proposal are, for example, Leader areas. The Left Party and the Center Party have had a joint reservation for two years, and we have criticised the government for not doing enough for the Leader areas in Sweden. With this bill, it will become clear that there will now be Leader areas throughout Sweden. There are also cautious steps to be taken with some investigations. The study grant investigation will be important. I think that the Center Party is right in many respects in its criticism. Here the government needs to work faster because we see how well-being screams after staff for the next five ten years. Skills will also be needed in rural areas. In that case, incentives are needed to draw doctors, teachers, health workers and so on to the countryside. The calculation of study funds can be such a thing. It has worked in Northern Norway, and we should try this form in Sweden. It is a tool that is lacking today. The Minister has talked about it, but things are going a little slow on the subject. I think there are parts of the border protection that are problematic for rural development. I do not agree with the description you give in the Center Party, but I think LIS areas are a bit too complicated. Basically, it is good to have an exception rule for rural areas where it is possible to create areas for both business development and housing start-ups. It's a little too complicated today, and you should make it easier. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has looked at the issue on behalf of the Government, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has put forward some concrete proposals on how, with small changes in regulations, the municipalities could have a different application to the county administrative boards. That would be an important change to make. The problem with the Center Party and other parties is that they take giant steps in a completely different direction that I'm more unsure about.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-232	Madam President, I would like I, like many others, grew up in the countryside, so it feels good to be able to discuss rural relations with the city here in Parliament. However, to be a little formal, Madam President, I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 9, which deals with general business activities. But, of course, we Liberals support all the reservations in which we are present. There are also two announcements, supported by the Liberals. They are about the way the copper network is to be dismantled and about the reform of the beach protection. When we discuss beach protection, it is very important to be able to land the issue so that we get a long-term sustainable regulatory framework. Here we have some different entrances, but I'll get back to that later. Rural areas are definitely not homogeneous. The countryside is not the same everywhere. It also develops much over time. You can see this in my neighborhoods in northern Bohuslän – they have developed over the past 40 to 50 years from a district of manufacturing, fishing and agriculture to a district that today lives on tourism and trade. So there are dramatic changes also in rural areas. Madam President, I would like The rural perspective can – and perhaps even should – be applied to most policy areas. It is the sum of these rural applications that becomes what one might call rural policy. For us liberals, rural policy is basically about every person's ability to have power over and responsibility for his own life, wherever he lives in the country. Then it makes no difference what you choose if you live in the countryside or in the city. We think that what you choose should be based on the individual. But it may not be possible to get away from the fact that there is a certain concentration of cities in relation to the countryside. As someone said, one can also talk about a certain Stockholm center; at least a Gothenburger could do so. In any case, one can see that there is some kind of contradiction. Unfortunately, the consequences of this may be that people in rural areas quite often feel abandoned and forgotten by the state. It is a question of many contexts; it has also been mentioned in the debate here. It is about the disappearance of public services, the closure of schools, the poor maintenance of roads and the absence of the police when calling. There's so much you can list. We easily get into a discussion about support and put a lot of focus on it. It's about billions after billions. I don't know how many billion Mattias Jonsson ended up; I didn't have time to count. But I think we should assume that the countryside has no other population than the rest of the country. Rural areas have good entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. It is about creating policies so that that energy and power can be released. It is crucial in many areas that we have policies that create faith in the future and believe that it is possible to operate in rural areas as well. In fact, it is not enough just to speak well about rural areas, but to take concrete measures. Then, Madam President, I would like to make it clear that the Liberals' starting point is that they are working on the basis of general measures that apply throughout the country, for it benefits both rural and urban areas. That's what you're supposed to be working on first. We are approaching efforts based on time limits and geographical limitations and this type of support. Support and contributions – if you hear the words, there will be almost something negative in the whole. It is with some caution that we are approaching this type of proposal. When we talk about general measures, it is about being able to run businesses, and then it is about reduced taxes and less bureaucracy. It benefits all businesses, not least in rural areas. Unfortunately, it's gone the other way. When we talk about bureaucracy, we talk a lot about real industries, about agriculture, but we can also talk about fishing and what has happened to the regulations there. There has not been a brilliant development in which the last mandates, perhaps to be quite honest, should be said. You can sometimes wonder when fishing boats come in towards Strömstad and become lying for a while just because they can't get in touch with the Maritime Authority and announce that they are going to dock. When a nutrition has such rules, when it is so incredibly complicated, I understand that it is difficult to recruit new people. There is a lot about transport and infrastructure. Yesterday major projects were presented around the country, and that is a good thing. You can talk about flights and high-speed trains and other major projects, but the crucial thing for rural areas is to have a system of individual roads that works. The way in which the State Authority deals with this in terms of subsidies and rules is important for the survival of rural areas in terms of both the transport of persons and goods. Then there is the obvious, the basic social functions. It is obvious that school, police and health care should be available to everyone throughout the country. I don't suppose anyone can argue with that. On the Liberal side, in order to make the school equal, we have proposed that we should nationalise the school. In our proposals we have great efforts on the police to increase the number of police officers throughout the country. We want to reform the travel allowance in order to focus on the people who live in rural areas and are de facto dependent on cars because they do not have public transport. We also want to expand the broadband network and give it a strong priority in our draft budget. We've been discussing the beach shelter a lot. I guess I'll have to say on the Liberal side that it might have a disproportionate place. There are many other factors which also play a major or significantly greater role in rural development. As mentioned here are the free beaches we also have an asset, and it is no coincidence that they remain. This is, of course, due to the fact that we have had beach protection legislation for over 50 years. We do not think it is necessary to be able to adapt beach protection locally without jeopardising the basic objectives of beach protection in terms of accessibility and biodiversity. From the Liberals' side, we want to make it clear that we want to start from the general beach protection we have when making that kind of process. It should be possible to abolish beach protection on the basis of local housing needs, but this should only apply in those areas that are genuinely under-exploited. The key word for us when it comes to beach protection is appropriate. It should be seen as relevant – one should see that it has a purpose. It is often said that we want to loosen up and so on, but it is really about increasing the legitimacy of beach protection. There must be acceptance and understanding in the area where the beach shelter is. If you, as Peter Helander mentioned here, live with a large road between you and the shoreline and still do not get building permits, you feel this is not relevant in our areas. Then the legislation loses its legitimacy, and I think that is the worst thing that can happen for the entire beach protection legislation. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a good thing to set clear targets, but it is remarkable that this is the only sharp proposal in the proposal that we are discussing today. A viable countryside with equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, work, housing and well-being that leads to long-term sustainable development throughout the country. The rest is a long series of government assessments. If you are truly benevolent, you can see it as good intentions in many respects. The Liberals, however, do not support all proposals, especially those which are very specific, geographical and time-limited and depend on treating rural areas as victims in this context. That is not the kind of policy that we are pursuing. That is what has prompted the accompanying motion, where we, together with the rest of the Alliance, have a number of motions. In order to highlight something, this with individual roads is very important. There is now a great deal of concern in the road associations out in Sweden. One wonders how one can arrange the financing of new bridges, for example, to cope with transport. Then we have discussed the copper grid here, and it is good that the Left Party supports this announcement. It is true that it is now Telia who has the responsibility, which is perhaps in fact right. Let me give you an example, however. We visited Tiveden National Park two, I think, three weeks ago. There people working in the tourism industry found that since the copper network and ADSL were dismantled they had great difficulties in charging. Then it hasn't gone well. This can apply to many people, and who is responsible for it? At the end of the day, however, it is the government that must ensure that this works.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-256	Madam President, I would like There are, of course, a lot of positive proposals in the bill. For example, export promotion efforts and the establishment of a national rural knowledge centre can be mentioned. At the same time, however, the proposal lacks many of the concrete proposals that I believe rural areas urgently need. With regard to a national rural knowledge centre, one might wonder whether it would not have been better to have a study centre and compare the whole country in order to establish a level playing field for living and living throughout the country? Not only do I mean rural areas themselves as a concept, but there are also urban environments that should be able to develop. It is also interesting that the Committee for Rural Development's 75 different proposals have not been the starting point for the whole proposal. In this context, I would like to highlight some rural issues that are particularly important for the Christian Democrats, namely food security, police presence, broadband access and the commitment of the state. Forest, soil and water products are the basis of the rural economy. General relief is needed to run businesses, not least in the green and blue industries, which will be extremely important in meeting the climate challenges. It is therefore crucial that these industries are given particularly good conditions and enhanced competitiveness. The potential of food production to create jobs throughout the country is fundamentally strengthened if competitiveness is increased. The peasants are not just looking for wives – they are looking for better conditions for their work. Had we seen the Farm in a modernised form, it would have been interesting to see, not least now that it was the Famous Farm, how the participants had managed to run their farm in the countryside. Actually, I don't think they would have done very well. In fact, they were quite familiar with the rules and obstacles that exist for these heroes, one must say, who are farmers, whether they produce food or are forest farmers. Having a stronger food production in Sweden is not just about a pleasure or that we think it is good with locally produced food, that it is inside and environmentally friendly and all this. It is, in fact, a safety issue that has become more of a focus in recent years. In the event of war or crisis, being able to have functioning agriculture is essential for Sweden as well. Madam President, I would like For quite some time now, it has been necessary to coordinate the project funds that can be applied for, not least for rural entrepreneurship. If we are to strengthen the labour market and businesses, we must ensure that the efforts made by the state are not counter-productive, as happens. I would also like, like my colleague from the Left, to promote equal entrepreneurship even more, for example through support for Winnet, so that the regional funds distributed by the state can be obtained. The fact that one authority does not know what the other has given me is, in my opinion, a waste of public money and, in addition, a waste of time for entrepreneurs and others who cannot benefit from it. The aid is counterproductive. It is about support from the Swedish Agency for Growth, EU funds and so on. When it comes to living and living in rural areas, several others here have mentioned access to telephone, fibre, broadband and such things. Of course, being able to run businesses and live in rural areas requires functioning networks – it is just that now – and functioning transport in general, i.e. a functioning total infrastructure. The planned kilometre tax will further drain the economy of both large and small businesses due to freight that cannot be done by rail or shipping. When it comes to roads, the alliance government contributed to a substantial increase in support for the individual roads. The state must, of course, continue to be able to take financial responsibility for maintaining a good standard on the individual road network. My constituency consists largely of rural areas, not least in Dalsland. There are and have been comments on the sub-regional road network for many years. To feel forgotten because you are outside the larger urban areas and to have to go on roads that are barely possible to go on after frosting is perhaps not something we had put up for in the big cities. Then we would have protested at once loudly. This is also about security at the bottom. We talk about alienation areas and expect them to be in the cities. But they are also very much present in rural areas. As a Christian Democrat, I am keen that we have a community where trust thrives instead of mistrust. Although we Christian Democrats are also calling for more police so that everyday crimes do not become a gateway to worse crime, we also need preventive action for families. They must be supported, regardless of where they live and where they are. Security is also about being able to get the care you need when seeking it. We know that the Swedish people are generally quite satisfied with the care once you get into it, but the waiting time can be long. We are convinced that, in this case, the state needs to take a much greater and clearer responsibility in order to contribute to equal care across the country.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-271	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther raised a number of important issues in her speech, but I noted that the pharmacy was not one of them. It was the Christian Democrats who were responsible for the privatisation of pharmacies that took place in the past or last parliamentary term. Yesterday there was a debate on pharmacy policy here in Parliament. I listened to it, and the spokesperson of the Christian Democrats on these issues, Emma Henriksson, who is a Stockholmer, said: ..................................................... I then wonder whether it is more important for the Christian Democrats that more people have short waiting periods when they enter pharmacies than that rural people will have a reasonable travel time to their pharmacies. Last Friday I visited the pharmacy in Likenäs in northern Klarälvdalen. There are relatively few people living in the northern valley of Klarälvdalen – you should say that. But many in the population are quite old. They have a long way to go to get to the nearest larger city. For them, the pharmacy in Likenäs is incredibly important for them to have access to their medication. Now it chooses to have the summer closed for eleven weeks. It is an incredible restriction on these people's ability to get medicine. They are referred to using the Internet, of course. My question is: are waiting times in the city more important than the travelling time of rural people to get to their pharmacy?
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-277	Madam President, I would like I do not really think anyone could say that the privatisation of pharmacies has contributed to less access to medicines. It has rather opened up a market where we have got more players where you can just pick up your medicine. This can be done not least at various service points, just as we pick up packages of groceries, clothes or whatever it may be. Rural service points are almost the most important service that can be provided. On the other hand, there have been run-in problems when introducing the possibility for others to take over pharmacy activities. There have indeed been childhood diseases in this case, not least in terms of accessibility of the same IT systems and so on. But when a single pharmacy has been closed in summer for so many weeks, the question must be asked: What part of the pharmacy world belongs to that pharmacy? Where do you make the demands? We still have some state-owned pharmacies. It is not that they have disappeared from the market. Today there are many different owners of pharmacies. This is the first question I would ask, where is the power, so to speak? Where can the population demand increased opening hours?
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-280	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther does not think that we have had less access to pharmacies, but she thinks that we have had better access to pharmacies as a consequence of the privatisation reform. There has not been a new pharmacy in sparsely populated areas. There has not been a new pharmacy in rural areas. There have been four new pharmacies in the rural area. On the other hand, we have received hundreds of new pharmacies in the cities. Karin Rågsjö from the Left Party, who lives on Kungsholmen, said that she has five pharmacies within 500 meters of where she lives. I think it's a very small consolation for those who live in Likenäs that Karin has five pharmacies within 500 meters when they have 50 minutes to their nearest pharmacy. Penilla Gunther asks: Who is responsible in this case? Yes, the Crown Pharmacy who owns the pharmacy in Likenäs. They also own pharmacies in Malung, Torsby and Ekshärad, which are the three pharmacies closest to them. Therefore, it is logical that they close down their pharmacy in Likenäs, so that Likenäs residents and everyone else in Klarälvdalen may travel to the other three pharmacies, for they will not lose anything of the market. But the problem is that the state also supports all pharmacies. We spend 10 billion annually to keep private pharmacies going. The pharmacy that gets the most money is Kronans Pharmacy. It's the pharmacy in Likenäs. 359,972 kroner last year. Yet the state cannot guarantee that these people have access to their pharmacy. Despite the fact that we spend 10 billion of our tax money on this, privatisation succeeds in ensuring that people still cannot be sure of getting their medicine. That's where the problem lies. The market chooses the cities and rejects the countryside. There will be short queues and waiting times for Emma Henriksson in Stockholm, but it will be a long way to travel for the residents of Likenäs.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-285	Mr. Old President! We can only say that before we had to go miles to buy Alvedon for our sick child or nose drops. It was simple things that could not be bought other than at opening hours between 9.30 and 18. Was that better, Håkan Svenneling? Can we not say in any way that medicines, which actually you and I and everyone else in this country use at some point in time, should be available for purchase at other times and also at places such as service points, Ica dealers, Coop or a gas station? Isn't that good? There are special medicines that you get on prescriptions that you can't get out of your system. You might have to go somewhere to get it out. You can also get it delivered home, which today is not completely impossible – quite the opposite. Even our state pharmacy markets that service. You should not have to go to the pharmacy, but you should get it directly from the recipe, so to speak, as a package home in the mailbox. What is the big problem for Håkan Svenneling? Is it that the state does not own everything in his perfect world? Can one really blame the fact that it is the privatisation that will allow the people of Limenäs to travel several miles? I don't think so, because even a government-owned pharmacy could have closed in the summer in this strange way. That is where the problem has to be tackled. If you receive state compensation, you must also be able to keep it open. It's a hygiene factor.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-289	Mr. Old President! I'm a rural man. I've been in my whole life. I know how it feels when the village store closes. I know what's going on. I know what it feels like when the state retires or when the village school is closed. I have experienced this myself. I've seen it with my own eyes. For a long time Swedish rural areas have been abandoned by different governments of different colours. I think it is important that, as you approach the question of the development of Swedish rural areas, you bring with you a large portion of humility. When this government took office in autumn 2014, we decided to change the course. We can't have a country that we're pulling apart. We have to close the gaps. That is why we changed the policy. Mr. Old President! Despite the fact that there is a gap between town and country, I meet many times, when I am out visiting Swedish countryside, with light and hope. I am met with entrepreneurship and confidence in the future on my trip to Sweden – I have visited almost all rural municipalities. There's a pride out there. That's exactly what this bill is all about. It is characterised by opportunities, not obstacles. It is characterized by faith in the future. That is the starting point of this rural bill. I am very pleased that there is now a broad political commitment to these issues. Mr. Old President! The focus of the bill is on jobs and entrepreneurship. That is why the government is investing a great deal in this – 860 million in two years for digitalisation and for technology development in rural businesses. It is about strengthening knowledge about digitalisation and about being able to take advantage of it in rural areas and in rural businesses. You should be able to benefit from fast broadband and be able to invest in production equipment and new technology in order to take the next step in development and create new jobs in Swedish rural areas. It is also a question of covering the resources of Almi and the Norrland Fund to a much greater extent, so that they can take greater risks when lending capital to rural businesses, which have difficulties in obtaining capital in order to develop. The government will therefore spend SEK 98 million over the next two years on incubator programs with closer contacts between rural knowledge companies and higher education institutions. This is also why the government is now, instead of SEK 300 million, investing SEK 400 million in the Norrland aid – that is, SEK 100 million more so that we can maintain food production in northern Sweden and develop the industries there. It's about work. There is no doubt that several important industries in the Swedish countryside are moving in the right direction. Take the hospitality business. There we had a growth of 7.4 per cent in 2017. There were 10 600 more jobs in a year. I have also noted a change in the view of farmers themselves. When we took office as a government, the LRF's annual barometer showed that about 19 per cent of farms experienced good or very good profitability. In the latest survey, 52 per cent of farms experience good or very good profitability. It has not been measured so good figures in ten years. In recent weeks, we have been able to read in our business magazines about the huge efforts being made in not least the forest industry, which is so important for rural development. It's a record investment. We have also been able to see that all counties in Sweden for the first time note increased exports. Investments in Swedish industry have never been as large as now since SCB began measuring this 80 years ago: SEK 72 billion. Mr. Old President! This is great, and I'm very happy about it. But we're not done. We're not happy. With the investments we are now making in the rural bill, we are continuing our work. We will not be satisfied until all companies do well, because this creates jobs and development. Mr. Old President! The Rural Bill also concerns indirect investments in entrepreneurship and future prosperity. We are taking a grip on the issues of education. We invest 88 million SEK in two years to develop distance education and to support remote teaching in the village schools. This is very important. It allows you to maintain the village schools. This also means that the quality of education in village schools can be improved considerably, in many cases. With new technology, we will ensure that the children in the village schools meet the best teachers available in Sweden. We will also analyse in depth the proposal made by the Committee on the cancellation of student loans. We will look at whether it is the most effective reform and ensure that the system is made legally secure before we go in and definitely say what to do. But we will look at the issue broadly and also look at other opportunities in terms of skills provision. The competence issues are extremely central, not least when it comes to Swedish rural areas. I've met hundreds of entrepreneurs. The first question that comes up when you meet entrepreneurs is always: Make sure we get trained workers! That is why the government wants to take a holistic approach to these issues. Mr. Old President! Money should also be invested in, among other things, individual roads. It's an important part. I live on a separate road myself and know what it's like to live there. The money that we are now announcing should, among other things, be used to make the decisive decisions about investments in order to remain alive at all. It can be about money to change a bridge, for example, which can cost many millions, even when only a few people live by that road. These are concrete things that are important in everyday life for people living out there. We are also extending the transport contribution to the food sector. It is about strengthening the competitiveness of companies operating in the food sector. In fact, there are companies in the countryside. Jobs and growth are a matter of destiny for Swedish rural areas, but it is also culture. The cultural school, community associations, sports associations and the local football team are examples of the community that is being created in Swedish rural areas. Therefore, the government in the 2018 budget also increases cultural efforts by 10 percent. In the rural bill, we announce an additional SEK 44 million over the next two years to strengthen cultural activities in Swedish rural areas. Mr. Old President! The need for reform is great. Therefore, we have already chosen to go forward with some government decisions that are linked to the rural bill before we put this on Parliament's table, including the investigation about the travel deductions. Today we have a system that benefits the Stockholm region and other metropolitan areas. In fact, we do not think that is fair. It is important that we have a travel deduction system that benefits rural areas better, and so we are now looking at how we could make the deduction more distance-based. Another investment, which we make in 39 municipalities in assisted area A, is about 70 million annually over three years to improve the business environment and business development. How that money is used should not be controlled from Stockholm. It will be governed by the municipalities that receive this money. There is the knowledge of what you just need in that particular municipality. This is also about another way of working with rural development. We also have a study on the financing of housing construction in rural areas. That's also a problem. Mr. Old President! I have now presented a wide range of proposals and efforts to reverse developments. But that is not enough. I promise there'll be more. During the summer, the government will decide on more measures to make the rural bill a reality. Mr. Old President! As we all know, a book consists of many chapters. Rural policy also consists of many chapters. The Rural Bill is a chapter in a very thick book, and that book is not ready yet. But we have made many historical efforts to reverse developments. I would like to mention a few other things. We have the entire Swedish investment of SEK 1.2 billion in the state budget for 2018. It's about pothole money, green jobs and creating learning centres in Swedish countryside. We have a multi-billion-dollar investment in Swedish rural areas – 5.5 billion, i.e. 5 500 million. Every penny goes out to Swedish countryside. It is just as important that we get the new technology out now as it was when we once electrified Sweden. We've stopped shop death. It is not we ourselves who say that, but it actually says that representatives of the large wholesale chain Axfood. The shop death in the countryside is stopped. It has even opened a few new shops since we introduced operating aid and also doubled investment aid. It's about people being able to modernize their stores – replace their fridges and freezers to modern stuff and rebuild. We have also increased the state presence; 2 000 jobs are relocated. We are definitely not finished, but we have begun a very important journey towards having a state presence. We have made a major investment of SEK 2.6 billion for the 30 most vulnerable municipalities in terms of high unemployment and low education. It is important for these municipalities. Then there is the food strategy, where we have 1 billion in measures. There are more than 40 different measures. So the book with many chapters that we are writing is thick, Mr. Old President. I could spend more time reporting everything, but time is not enough. However, it is very important to understand that it will take time to reverse developments in Swedish rural areas. This is not done during one or two terms of office. Mr. Old President! I did not intend to touch on this with the climate of debate, but in view of the speeches that have been made, I do. There were questions about the negotiation. Yes, I invited you to a hearing. However, it refused to negotiate, even though we did not even have time to present the content. That's it. When you then hear speeches from the moderate Member of the Commission, Mr Bergheden, Mr President of the Age, you are thinking about what all this inquisitiveness – the almost hateful – in his speech is based on. It is nothing that benefits the countryside when you actually blacken down the whole of Sweden and also the countryside. Instead, let us become ambassadors for our amazing country! Let us become ambassadors of the countryside rather than go with inquisitiveness. Mr. Old President! I have said it before, and I say it again, in conclusion: Swedish countryside has been neglected for a long time, by various governments of different colours. It has been about socially-led governments, and it has been about bourgeois-led governments. But this government has decided to reverse developments, and the direction is very clear, my friends. It is a historic investment in Swedish rural areas that this government has started. The gap between town and country is to be closed. Let us therefore stop party tactics and, together, cross-blocks, actually make sure that Swedish rural areas too can have a brighter future!
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-327	Mr. Old President! In the '90s, our grid was privatized. The aim was to increase competition and lower prices. What about it? Yes, it was just the opposite. Electricity network charges have, on average, increased by 71⁄2 per cent since last year alone, and in five years they have increased by 25 per cent. In addition, the differences are large across the country – it distinguishes SEK 7 000 between two similar households depending on whether you live in Grums in Värmland or in Ljungby in Småland. The companies' maximum permitted yield is regulated by the Swedish Energy Market Authority, but the electricity companies are not satisfied but have several times appealed against the decisions in order to charge higher fees. Norrland and sparsely populated areas are most affected. Over the past five years, the electricity grid price in Ånge has risen by 30 percent, and in Berg it has risen by 40 percent. The Left Party wants the Electricity Act to be amended and companies not to be able to shock up prices. We believe that it is unreasonable to have large price differences in network charges between city and country, between regions and between different companies. Raising electricity grid charges not only hit households hard, but also hit industry and ultimately our jobs. It is clear that the electricity market needs to be fundamentally redesigned. Electricity production needs to be seen as part of the whole of Sweden's infrastructure. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the possibility of making the Swedish electricity network community-owned. Just as with the pharmacies, which I talked about in my last line change, this is what happens when the market decides. My question to the Minister is therefore: do you think it is too much or too little of the market in Swedish rural policy?
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-332	Mr. Old President! The market always goes to areas where there are a lot of customers. It is not strange in itself; I think a market should work that way. But there's not a lot of customers everywhere, and that's why I think there's a need for a larger state presence – and also a government control of the business. What the honourable Member talks about electricity network charges is something that the government has noted and is also working on. However, I am not responsible for this, but it is the Energy Minister, Ibrahim Baylan, who is dealing with this. The issue is being dealt with. No, I think the market is a bad man, but, like someone said, it can be a very good servant.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-335	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I find it interesting to hear how you reason. Something from your speech that I think should be highlighted and which I think was important was that you raised skills provision. I usually think that it is two legs we need to solve in the long term in the policy to get positive rural development: the supply of skills and the supply of capital. None of these issues have been raised very much today, and I really think that is because we are basically quite in agreement. We also see that some steps have been taken during this parliamentary term. The centre of learning and the proposals made by the Rural Committee have been well caught up by the government and the Left Party, for example in the latest budget. You mentioned the means of study as a reform you wanted to think about, the government, and you asked two questions. I thought I'd answer them for you. One was whether it is an effective reform, and the other was whether it is a legally secure reform. I would say that this is definitely an effective reform. What we saw in the Rural Committee was that Northern Norway's countryside is better than Swedish countryside, especially in northern Sweden – and also in northern Finland, if they are included in the discussion. This means that this is a reform that can strengthen the supply of skills and is therefore important to get as a toolbox toolbox. Is it legal? It is a somewhat more difficult question to answer, and it is therefore a good thing to analyse and think. Of course, it may be that you end up in situations where you can discuss that the fee is reduced for a person living in a municipality while the person who lives a hundred metres away, in a neighbouring municipality, does not receive a reduced fee. These are aspects you need to look at. However, I think it is important to look at these aspects, for if you read, for example, the Swedish Municipalities and County Council's financial report from May, you can see that the first challenge in welfare in the coming years is to recruit staff. The second challenge is funding. The number of employed persons needs to increase by 124,000 by 2025, and it is estimated that the public will have to take 60% of all new ones into employment. There are an incredible number of people we need to recruit both public and rural businesses, so we have to do something.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-341	Mr. Old President! I will not think about it, Mr Svenneling, but we have launched an investigation to take a very serious look at this. It is also an important issue in attracting skills to rural areas. However, this is not just the question we are going to look at, but we want to look at it very broadly. One example is our investment in the learning centre, as you mentioned, but there are other things as well. There are even things you have never really thought about. I have met entrepreneurs who have said this: We're 100 engineers at my company. It's hard to get them to come here, but let them build in beautiful locations. That would make it a lot easier. .....................................................
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-344	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to reflect a little on what the Minister for Rural Development said about the profitability index from the LRF. I suspect that this has a great deal to do with the talented entrepreneurs in rural areas, who have managed to adapt to new conditions, and that government efforts have a limited impact on this particular issue. When it comes to working in rural areas, it's a lot about wanting to work in the agricultural industries. I will give an example of which I have spoken to the Minister for Rural Development before. If you work in a company, you want to be paid for what you do. For those farms whose business concept is to work with sustainable nature conservation and which should have been paid from the rural development programme, the payment has really been delayed. It is still not fully settled for the last few years. In such a situation – when you work and wear out years and years in and then feel that it's probably a coincidence if you get the payment or not – it's not surprising that you have problems getting people to take over such an activity. My question to the rural minister is: does the rural minister see an end to this, and does he see when it will start to work? It has now been several years when it has not worked.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-349	Mr. Old President! It is sad that these payments and systems have not worked; I am the first to admit it. We have added 60 million in additional resources to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to improve this. It's gotten better, but you're not quite in goal yet. It's a complex system. With regard to what you, Lars Tysklind, said in your introduction on environmental measures, Sweden is pushing for better opportunities in Pillar 2 in the next period of the CAP to make efforts in the environmental field and to reduce Pillar 1, which is driving up the prices of agricultural properties and which makes it difficult for generations to change.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-351	Mr. Old President! I would like to make it clear that, from the Liberals' side, we support the development that is taking place and what Sweden is pushing: to move the money from Pillar 1 to Pillar 2, i.e. to put it on environmental measures. This is a development that we are very positive about. In my speech, I mentioned a little about the regulatory framework in the agricultural sector. This can also be a factor that makes you not want to start doing this – it seems so incredibly complicated. There are recruitment problems in particular in fisheries. Usually it's not about profitability problems or that you don't think it's an industry that would be good to work in. Instead, the problem is the regulatory framework and that it is so complicated to run things. When you try to do the right thing, you end up with fines. It is a problem that makes it difficult to recruit young people into such working conditions. I would strongly urge the Minister for Rural Development to work hard on these issues. Now, of course, the Minister for Rural Development does not have many months before the elections, and we will see who gets to deal with this. It is, in any case, incredibly important that we have a solution in this area.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-355	Mr. Old President! The issue of regulatory simplification is extremely important, whether we are talking about the common fisheries policy or the common agricultural policy. This is, of course, an issue that Sweden has been pushing for a long time. We need simplification. This creates problems, not just in terms of national management. This is particularly true of the situation out there; it causes problems for farmers and fishermen. We are now several countries that are pushing this issue at European level. It was announced very well by the Agriculture Commissioner, but when we received the bill last Friday it did not look so good. This issue is one of the things we discussed at the informal meeting of agriculture ministers yesterday in Bucharest. I think it is very important that we are tough on these issues. When it comes to fishing and the opportunities for younger fishermen to come in and start working on this industry, it is also a matter of not having overfishing on different species and that there is a long-term sustainable stock. This is the basic condition. There are many things that affect this, not least the environment. The qualities found in the waters of the Baltic Sea mean that we have fish stocks that have huge problems. That is why – to ensure that we can have long-term sustainable fishing in the Baltic Sea – this government has entered 600 million in the 2018 budget to create a cleaner Baltic Sea.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-360	Mr. Old President! I have a few questions I would like to ask the Minister. First of all, as the Minister said, the countryside is neglected. I fully agree with that, and it has unfortunately not improved over the last four years. The Minister also spoke of a shift in course. We've seen that too. We have seen the treasures introduced. We have also seen the taxes that the government is planning to introduce, which will affect rural areas even more. We are talking about truck taxes, higher petrol and diesel taxes, air taxes and delayed EU payments. We are talking about the fact that it is becoming more difficult to own and manage forests in the country, which even makes the banks start to question the ownership of forest owners today in terms of loans and other things. I would like to ask the Minister a question about the unclear situation regarding the government's view of beach protection. In view of the questions I have asked earlier, according to the government, there is some form of investigation going on. Then I would like to ask: how far has this preparation come in the department with regard to the protection of the beach? There is an announcement from 2015 and one from 2017. How far has this come? The Social Democrats and the Green Party in this report have reservations about reviewing the protection of the shore. At the same time, Mr Bucht, who is a minister, states that he is willing to review it. What is the line? Is it the Social Democrats' line here in Parliament, which says no to reviewing beach protection, or is it the Minister's line, which says that we can review beach protection in Sweden? I think it would be good to clarify these issues for Swedish municipalities and others.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-365	Mr. Old President! I am surprised that Mr Bergheden is raising further questions, given his sulfurous, rogue and rhetorical hate speech. The honourable Member had answers to all the questions. Sweden and the countryside were black. I have a question for the honourable Member. I will read a comment from a person who will certainly be very familiar to many of you sitting in this House. He said that Ulf Kristersson's speech was very much in line with what we think in the LRF. But it is important that what is said also comes true. We were very disappointed in the way the previous alliance government dealt with agricultural issues. It didn't happen much during their years. ..................................................... The honourable Member may not know who said this. It's a quote, straight off, by LRF Chairman Palle Borgström. Maybe it didn't look so miserable even during that time. Surely something happened during that time, but I would like to say that a great deal has happened over the four years that this government has been responsible for these issues. We line up lots of examples of how we have changed developments. I have a document here that contains more than 100 measures for Swedish rural areas. I'll come back to it on another occasion, because I don't have time now. I can answer the question about the beach shelter. It's still prepared by the government, but I have no reason to give you a timetable.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-370	Mr. Old President! Yes, Minister, I would be happy to have a discussion with Palle Borgström on the occasion and go through what was done under the alliance government and what has been done under the Social Democratic Government, of course. But here today I am having a debate with the Minister, whom I asked a number of questions about the protection of the beach. And the only thing we hear from this speaker is that the question is still being prepared. While the Minister is out saying that you should review and reform beach protection, Members of Parliament are pressing the 'no' button to do what the Minister says. Who's running the government? Is it the Minister or the Members of Parliament? Today it is rather unclear where the Social Democrats stand. It is even unclear whether the issue is really being addressed. I do not think the answer was convincing either from the government's partner Environmental Party representative here in Parliament. The question is: Is the question prepared? If so, how far has the preparation come? Do you want to review the beach shelter or not? Could this be so difficult to answer yes or no to for the Minister? The Minister has been out and said that he would consider reviewing the question. But he intends to ensure that we vote no in Parliament to review this, which is truly remarkable. We're writing a thick book, the minister said. Yes, about $8 billion has now been raised from rural areas, businesses, and taxpayers in this country. It is planned to introduce even more taxes that will affect rural areas. And in the meantime, the minister and the government are writing a book on how to use this money in the future. No, this is not good enough. On 9 September, you will be replaced.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-375	Mr. Old President! The book has many chapters and contains lots of concrete measures. I understand very well that the Moderates and perhaps some other alliance party are very frustrated to see that this government has really taken on rural issues in a completely different way, because, as Palle Borgström said, not much happened during the year of the alliance government.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-376	Mr. Old President! I was in Lycksele yesterday talking to some forest owners and Norrskog. Me and a colleague go around the country on a forest tour and talk to forest owners about how we can use the forest in a good way and change society in the future. In Norrskog it was quite hard pressed that the world needs more packaging, that we need to replace plastic, cotton and polyester materials and that we need more sawn wood and more biofuels. I have talked to both Norrskog and other forest companies, and I assume that the Minister has also talked to several companies and companies that want to invest in this business, which can collect the goods needed to reset not only Sweden but the whole world. 300 million tonnes of plastic and 400 million tonnes of paper a year are produced in the world today. If we are to replace plastics with renewable materials, perhaps we need to increase the production of paper to 600 million tonnes. The large investments that could provide so much work in entrepreneurship in rural areas and also in Norrland do not really come to the fore. The reason is that you are unsure whether you can make this withdrawal from the forest. And there is uncertainty about how we can use the forest in the future if we can use it to produce these environmentally friendly goods. I wonder how the Minister views the balance between environmental production and the increased forest extraction that we need to do.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-379	Mr. Old President! The honourable Member raises a very important issue, namely the forest with its opportunity for us to become a fossil-free country. The government has very high ambitions for this. The ambition is that Sweden, as the first welfare country in the world, will be able to become fossil-free by 2045. We have that possibility, because 70 per cent of Sweden's surface area is covered by forest. To get away from the oil, biomass is needed, and the forest is central. This is also why huge investments are being made in the Swedish forest industry at the moment. They're historically large. Of course we will accept this. We will also invest further in research to produce more biomass and be able to replace the oil completely. It's central and important. We have good and sustainable forestry, which takes responsibility for the environment and the species that are there. Of course it can always get better. One should never say that it is completely on top, but there is reason to improve it. Today we have a growth in Swedish forests of about 125 million cubic metres, and we harvest 85-90 million cubic metres. There is thus potential to take out more raw materials to switch fossil to biofuels and also to replace materials, type plastics made from oil. Composite materials and textiles can also be made from raw materials from the forest. We have all the possibilities in Sweden if we handle this in a wise and good way.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-386	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. The forest industry expresses concern that some investments will not be made – then we are talking about investments of up to 20 billion – because it is so uncertain whether you can increase the yield from the forest. As the Government says, forest content is constantly increasing. Over the past 90 years, forest content has increased by 109 percent. And we plant twice as much as we fell, so we get more forest. But there is still uncertainty around the forest. At the meeting in Lycksele the question of the mountain forest also came up. I was told that there are 3,300 forest owners who own mountain forest. One problem about the legal uncertainty, as the Government is well aware, is that the prices of the mountain forest have generally appeared strongly, in some areas of up to 25 per cent. It is clear that the legal uncertainty, that we do not know what is going on, is causing problems. Here we must give broad political signals about what applies to Swedish forestry in terms of compensation levels and how we can use the forest. I do not know if the Government has any positive news to come to all these forest owners and also to those who own mountain forest.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-391	Mr. Old President! The Government will review both the species protection regulation and the compensation for mountain forest. It is important to clarify, because there is uncertainty about this. We should also remember that the legislation in force was not put in place by this government. It was put in place in 2010, when both the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment were the center party. As a result of legislation, this uncertainty exists, but now we are reviewing it. We need to create long-term rules of play on this. It's extremely important.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-394	Mr. Old President! I was going to open the Council of State a little in some of the discussions that the Committee on Economic Affairs has had during the year and which are very much bearing on rural conditions. Not least, we have had major discussions about processing times and licensing. There are unhemular demands on both large and small companies. The last time we're talking about human resources. I really do not understand how this would benefit rural entrepreneurship. Then there are the taxes that have been mentioned before. After all, the government imposes taxes on transport, which penalises the business community. I myself hosted a seminar on, among other things, heavy transport for the mining industry in the areas from which the Government comes. Here the government has not invested a single crown even on short distances that would have helped the business community considerably. The development of biofuels has also been delayed. Here the government has not supported it in the way it should, given the forest supply we have in this country. In the government, one hand doesn't seem to know exactly what the other is doing. I do not know whether this is because the government consists of two parties that did not speak up for the elections. My question to the Government is: how do we see that these contradictory measures have benefited rural policy, and how does this proposal show?
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-400	Mr. Old President! This bill has a great focus on jobs and business development because the government has made trips throughout the country. For the first time, a government has visited all of Sweden's municipalities during one term of office, and we have obviously taken the impression of what we have met on these trips. I have met myself I do not know how many hundred entrepreneurs, so I know what entrepreneurs prioritise. Two issues are always central: ensuring that there is a skilled and skilled workforce, and ensuring that funding is facilitated. They also want order in the labour market. Of course, there are sometimes criticisms of licensing, and it is important that it becomes fairly uniform across the country. We are following this, and we have also mentioned in the regulatory letters that it looks a little different. Another key issue for companies is transport, not least heavy transport. That is why we are spending 700 billion on infrastructure investments in the national plan. We are making great efforts to cope with heavy transport and to be able to move from road to rail and sea traffic. The broadband initiative, which I mentioned in my speech, is also an important investment in the area of infrastructure. It is also a central issue for entrepreneurs. I and the government have a very good idea of what the entrepreneurs in the Swedish countryside want, because we have listened to them when we have visited all the municipalities during this term of office.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-406	Mr. Old President! It is good that the government travels around, because then you learn a lot and get information that you might not have received otherwise. Then the government representatives must have listened to the concerns that exist not least in the parent cooperatives. As far as I know, the Social Democrats, as well as some of us other parties, are for the cooperative movement and its development. It offers an opportunity to start shops, preschools and other things in rural areas. How, then, is it that we Members of Parliament are showered with e-mails about the government's proposal to make it more difficult for this type of enterprise? You would like to see the development of village schools; I heard the Prime Minister say that in particular. Are not many of these rural schools staff cooperatives or parent cooperatives? At least it's my experience. The government should have thought of all the different forms of enterprise but has forgotten cooperatives and economic associations. What do you think here? This is a perfect way to extend the possibility of entrepreneurship, not least in rural areas. But here you want to make things more difficult. I did not receive an answer on the human resources leagues, so I look forward to it in the Minister's last speech.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-411	Mr. Old President! Education and skills issues are central to the rural bill. This applies both to higher education in the form of more learning centres in the country and to basic education, not least village schools. We are in favour of parental cooperatives and economic associations, which can also make efforts in the field of education. There is no uncertainty about this. Village schools are very important, but we also need to take advantage of the new technology. Now there will be broadband throughout Sweden. The Government's ambition is for all households and companies in Sweden to have broadband in 2025. When we put this technology in place, we also need to develop digital education, and there is much to do here. In the rural bill there is an investment in remote education, which I described. It's an important part. I have seen remote education in the Stockholm archipelago myself. It worked fine, even when they had biology classes and picked small fish apart. It is possible to do a great deal in this area and in this way significantly improve the quality of teaching in rural areas. We will give the best to the children in Swedish countryside. They will meet Sweden's best teachers, perhaps digitally via a screen, so it is important that we develop this.
i-0449b67d42dc8e90-415	Mr. Old President! Having listened to all the speeches, I would like to say to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht that I am following this with education. I met two people from Piteå who were going to train as welders in Svalöv. So it is possible to fly down to get an education and then come back again and demand a higher salary for having received a good education. It is striking to compare burning boom with previous recession and financial crisis, just as if it is total style and everything can be compared in the same way. Of course, that's not how it works in real life. Mr. Old President! I asked for the floor to talk about regional growth or about the concerns that we see. There are many things that work in our country, but we often focus on what may not work so well. The proposal and the report on a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas, to be decided on on Thursday, contain a proposal for a decision that means that the objective of a coherent rural policy should be: a viable rural area with equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, work, housing and well-being that leads to long-term sustainable development throughout the country. Then there are not many sharp proposals to make. A large part of Sweden consists of rural areas. This means that jobs, education and improved business are key elements for the development of the country. A good business environment together with regional growth efforts is the basis for people to live and run businesses throughout the country, which we have all been into. The consultation bodies that have responded state that it must be possible to monitor and evaluate measurability. This is lacking in the bill and calls for the government's ideas on equal opportunities. There are a lot of challenges with the policy that the government is pursuing and what it says it wants to achieve. One such case is infrastructure, which is a prerequisite for people to be able to live, operate and live in our elongated country. The infrastructure must then be both reliable and operational and accessible. The government has not made it easier to live and live outside the cities with train and air taxes. Sweden is an elongated country in northern Europe that depends on aviation for our competitiveness and trade and for people to be able to get to each other. Aviation tax has already been introduced in Denmark, the Netherlands and Ireland, but all these countries have since abolished it as they have seen negative consequences. It will really be twice as the government wants to invest in tourism and tourism with Business Sweden on site in New York to attract tourism to our country while direct lines between the USA and Sweden do not come to because of the airline tax. I think that those who are happy about this are certainly those who bow and bow in Copenhagen. The hospitality industry also faces other concerns. There is a shortage of service personnel, and the government has been pushing for the Arbetsförmedlingen together with Visita to train chefs. There has been an ongoing debate with the Minister for Labour that this is not working. Visita has been ready for training, but the chefs have not been delivered. Like Minister Bucht, we are a number of Members who have visited industries throughout the country. I have received signals in Skåne that study and career counselors in some places advise against these service professions, which we have a lack of. This needs to be followed up. We can't have it like that. The industry screams for labor, and then it must come to light how good it is to be able to work as both a chef and a service staff. It needs our hospitality. During the weekend that passed, it was announced that the trains between Stockholm and Gothenburg were cancelled because of sun curves. In the people's mouth it was said that the trains were cancelled because of hot tracks. Everyone went around like little ants to look for what happened and find out what was happening, and then suddenly the trains were put in to work again. This is positive in itself, but credibility disappears when you do this on top of that it is already difficult to arrive. It happens all the time that trains are severely delayed and that they are cancelled. The other week a train traveler wrote on Facebook: SJ is now apparently offering a permanent residence permit in Floda. This he wrote after the train had stood still for a long time, and a journey between Gothenburg and Linköping took up 16 hours. On TV and on the radio the trains are constantly under discussion, and last night it was about winter having made its way to the north to break the rails. A neglected need since the 60's and 70's has followed us forward, and it seems that it will take a couple of hundred years before we finish. Mr. Old President! Sweden is a small, export-dependent country, and goods go by car and train out of and within the country. The Kilometer tax is hitting Swedish companies hard. It is a tax from a distance and not on emissions. Industry is affected, and it is affected from north to south in a competitive disadvantage and by bottlenecks on our roads. This affects income that in turn affects jobs and the ability to live, live and earn a living. And this affects not least the growth of the country's economy. In the south there is one of the biggest gates for tourism – Ystad with the boats. It is also a port for freight, and there are bottlenecks from the port further along the road to Malmö and up via E6 to Gothenburg. There are accidents every two days. Small towns suffer from heavy traffic, which cannot travel on the motorway, passing through small towns. The roads are destroyed when trucks drive where they shouldn't. Queer has become a mantra for the current government. Mr. Old President! Competition is intensifying. It is nothing new that Swedish companies sell products and services to customers in other countries, both close and a little further away. The new thing compared to before is that competition is tougher and that everyone is affected – even those people and companies who work with the most advanced. This means that we in Sweden cannot take anything for granted. On the contrary, it becomes even more important that we do what we can politically to ensure that companies in Sweden have reasonable terms and conditions that stand in relation to the competitor countries. At the same time, the government then imposes a higher fuel tax on individuals who are going to commuting to and from work in everyday life outside public transport. This is being done despite a commitment from the Minister of Finance for the 2014 elections not to do just that. The tourism industry is growing. Farm sales strengthen entrepreneurship, increase tourism and contribute to more and new jobs. But the government says no to making it possible to sell wine directly on the farm to tourists, as is done in the rest of Europe. The Minister for Rural Development has been to Arild, where there are a number of vineyards. There are many of them in Skåne. They want to be able to sell their bottles directly on the farm under Systembolaget's monopoly. There is now an announcement of this on the ground, and I think that the government should be sympathetic to this and not refer back in time and say that it is not possible to do this. The processing times for those who want to start, run and develop activities affect their opportunities to live and live and be professionals. Here the authorities need to be on their toes to help with quick decision-making and a solution-focused approach. Some time ago it was about the Chemicals Inspectorate, which I take as an example. It was about the management of pesticides. Onion growers in Sweden fell behind compared to their European competitors. It is important that the authorities do not make it more difficult, but improve the ability of companies to operate in a highly competitive market. As, among others, Penilla Gunther from the Christian Democrats has mentioned before, the possibility of looking for a doctor when you fall ill is also an opportunity that needs to be around our elongated country. On Thursday we will decide on what is known as welfare gains. An example from the country is a small town in Jämtland, where a doctor with the help of employed staff has taken over the health centre when the regional health centre was not available. The doctor is paid for this by the region. In order for him to run the health centre, the region demands that there be a buffer. It makes sense to do so so that there will be money as security in case something should happen. However, according to the government's proposal, one can no longer have a buffer like this. This means that this health centre could not continue on the premises proposed by the government. Who, then, will meet the needs of local residents? The same applies, of course, to other small towns with activities that have been started by women, mothers and others in industries such as nursing, school and health care. Here the government should focus on those activities that have good results for the inhabitants, and not stop and close down. Mr. Old President! The Alliance has proposals that do not impose tax burdens on companies and individuals. We focus on opportunities without stopping and banning. Sten Bergheden has previously listed a whole series of reforms that we will support. It is about beach protection, about copper nets and about strengthening food and forest production. The flight is supposed to work, and we say no to fuel tax and distance tax. We say yes to farm sales, and we want it to be easier to run food businesses. We say yes to maintenance and no to high-speed trains. Lantmäteriet should work, and we want a time limit for faster processing times. We want to see more remote education. We think that perhaps we can look to the future there because the government is already in favour of parts of this, but it can become even bigger and wider. Notification-driven burdens should be removed from public authorities, and they should interact with the business community with a focus on solutions. With this, I support the Alliance's reservation 3.
