i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-6	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the issue of certain proposals in the area of assistance. The Government has put forward a proposal which includes proposals for amendments to the Social Security Code and to the Act on Support and Services for Certain Disabled Persons, i.e. LSS. In substance, I have no objection to these proposals. They are a step in the right direction, albeit a small step. There are no revolutionary proposals to correct all the devastation caused. Nor will they ensure that the law will be applied in the future as originally intended. And they will definitely not help all those who have already been affected by the government's dismantling and saving requirements within the LSS. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to return to the proposals that are actually on our table today. As I said, we support the Government's proposal for amendments to both the Social Security Code and the LSS. In the case of the Social Security Code, it is in brief a question of introducing provisions stating that the government or the authority that the government decides has the right to make additional provisions for assistance payments with a higher amount than the flat-rate amount and also for payments other than monthly payments. In the case of LSS, the proposal introduces a provision which, in short, means that when a municipality has received a decision from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that someone has been denied assistance compensation, it is the municipality's duty to contact the individual without delay in order for any municipal intervention to be implemented within a reasonable period of time. In the event of a negative decision by Försäkringskassan, the municipality's liability according to LSS will thus enter, provided that you belong to the right group of persons and are in need of support. When someone receives a refusal from Försäkringskassan, Försäkringskassan must therefore send the decision to the municipality, which in turn must notify the individual. Unfortunately, this is not often where it falls. Many have fallen between the chairs, been rejected, and do not know what other possible ways there are to get help. Some municipalities feel that the information provided by Försäkringskassan is inadequate, and the proposal is that Försäkringskassan should review its procedures. We obviously support both of these proposals, but we still have a reservation and comments which we also share with some of the consultation bodies. It is about that we think that the information should be provided through personal contact, but also that the information should include actions under the Social Services Act. We therefore want personal contact to be made so that information on all possibilities for other support can be provided. The aim is that no one should fall between the chairs, but above all that information should be given about what help you can get when you have been denied assistance by Försäkringskassan. We believe that the best way to ensure this is to provide information at a personal meeting so that it can also be ensured that the person has actually taken part of the information, which is not entirely self-evident. I note that the Government agrees with our views and believes that it is a natural starting point that the information should be provided through personal contact. However, the government does not believe that there are sufficient grounds for introducing a formal requirement for information in the provision. Some experience in this area shows that it may not be so much about what we think, but more about what is actually said and how it should be applied. Madam President, I would like As I understand it, we are somewhat in agreement, and it is really only a question of whether this is an issue that should be included in the information rules or not. I think so, and that is why I am in favour of the reservation.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-15	Madam President, I would like As the previous speaker mentioned, the issue we are debating today concerns very limited and small, but certainly important, changes in the area of assistance. On the whole, however, they are proposals which, although correct, do not lead to the restoration of the legislation that we would need to see. Even when changes were made to the payment of the assistance allowance by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, we pointed out that there is no reason in principle to object to the ex post or monthly payment of the allowance, as long as account is taken of the fact that the costs for which the individual has been granted assistance allowance with an increased amount may be distributed differently between months. It is important that the money is sufficient for the efforts that are needed and that this can be balanced over time. For many who have personal assistants who need to have a great deal of knowledge about the individual in order to be able to perform the assistance properly, extensive training efforts are needed. Often, you also need, especially if you have extensive assistance compensation, help around the clock, all year round – no matter how many red days fall. These are two examples of a fall if costs cannot be balanced over time. You may not be able to send the entire staff group to training at the same time when, for example, you have been given a new technical tool to facilitate everyday life. If they are not all able to and know how to do in the new situation or when it comes to a new deterioration in your disability, not everyone can do their job well. Then there can be high costs at one and the same time. It may also be that it is midsummer or that several red days fall simultaneously with such a training effort. Then there will be extra high costs a specific month. Christmas is another such example. When these changes were made without at the same time balancing costs between months, people were put in extremely tricky situations, especially those who have chosen small, individual performers. The major players – the municipalities or the large companies – are more able to balance for such peaks within their own operating budget. They're not supposed to have to do it, but the opportunity has been there. However, for those who handle their own assistance or have hired a small company, this will be difficult. These changes, which allow the amount to be paid over a different period, thus make it possible to balance when costs fall over different months. Therefore, these changes are important. It is clear, however, that these are just some of the problems that have existed in recent years and have meant that people who have very extensive needs in society no longer receive the support they are entitled to. We will debate these issues even more next week, so for that reason, Madam President, I choose to stay here and ask for the committee's proposal to be approved. However, we have a specific opinion that develops where we stand on the big issue.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-23	Madam President, I would like In a short time, we in this House have debated two sharp proposals that the government has put forward, which are about decisions that eliminate the intransigence of the consequences of previous judgments in, among others, the Supreme Administrative Court. As you know, the changes have been going on for at least ten years. As early as 2009, a ruling changed the view on basic needs, which is a supporting pillar of the LSS legislation. Among other things, it is about how to assess personal assistance. Before I start commenting on today's case, which concerns the obligation of municipalities to inform about the conditions that individuals have when they are not entitled to state assistance and how the payment of assistance compensation should be made for those who are entitled to a higher amount than the flat-rate amount, I would like to look briefly in the rearview mirror. The situation we are facing today, in which many people have lost state aid compensation, is mainly due to changes in case law. The change in case law has, in turn, been going on for a long time, due to legislation which, in my opinion, is hollow and leaves room for interpretation. After the first judgment, changes have taken place. After the last ruling, which concerns, among other things, the right to assistance between activities, so to speak, during rest periods, and would have led to significant changes and changes in the conditions for the whole of the legislation, the government acted forcefully and quickly to stop these serious consequences with the end of two-year trials. The problems were also known to the Alliance Government during the previous and previous term of office, but the then government was unable to deal with the situation. That is why it is a bit ironic that today we are receiving the same criticism of those who were there themselves at the time and did not get to grips with the issue when they were in government. During this term of office, the government has acted in different ways. At the beginning of the term of office, a number of studies were commissioned to see the consequences and implications of the amended case law. Early initiatives were also taken for an LSS investigation. We Social Democrats and the Red-Green Government will not shake the ambitions of the LSS. The objective is, and will still be, participation, equality and independence. It's fixed. The person in need of assistance should be assisted. Therefore, the Red-Green Government has submitted an additional directive to the ongoing investigation to establish that we are upholding the principles of the intention of the law. Madam President, I would like The proposal being debated today is another step in the right direction. The proposal is, briefly, that we should introduce a requirement that if you receive a refusal of your request for state personal assistance, the municipality should be obliged to inform the individual as a matter of urgency of what other possibilities exist. Today, responsibility is shared between municipalities and the state in terms of state and personal assistance. Therefore, pending new, modern legislation, it is important that everyone who needs help should get it and not end up between the chairs. That is why one of these proposals is on Parliament's table today. At the same time, I would like to hope and believe that municipalities and county councils will assume their responsibilities and ensure that those who need action will get it while waiting for what will happen in the future. The second proposal is that we now introduce a procedure whereby payments can be made more regularly even if we need to receive higher amounts than flat-rate payments. Previously, Försäkringskassan had a practice of post-payments. As Emma Henriksson said, many individuals have been allowed to act as a bank, which is unfortunate. With the proposal we are putting forward today, we want to overcome that effect. To conclude, we regret to say that people have been caught up in this situation, which we regret. But I can promise that we Social Democrats will ensure that the basic values of the LSS reform are maintained – participation, equality and independence – and that, of course, everyone who has the right to help will get it. I support the committee's proposal.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-32	Madam President, I would like I tried in my speech to stick to today's dossier, but as Mikael Dahlqvist in his speech focused on what is the big issue, in which the government is not actually doing what is needed, I have some questions for him about it. You say that the previous government did nothing and that what we are seeing now already began more than a decade ago. I hear Social Democrats say this in every other debate in the context where we are talking about these issues. You make it sound like there was no difference between what happened after the judgment in 2009 and what has happened in the last three years. There are investigations and authorities that have looked at the composition of those seeking state assistance and whether there has been any change there. No, you say, there's no difference there. Those seeking are part of the same circle of persons, possibly even to a somewhat greater extent now than before. But you can also choose to look at how many of those seeking government assistance are refused. In 2008– you referred to the judgment of 2009– it was 49% who were refused an application. The following year it was 49.9 per cent. Then came autumn 2015 and year 2016. At that time, the granting rate decreased to 20 per cent, and according to the latest figures, it is now down to 11.5 per cent. Do the Social Democrats really mean that what happened in autumn 2015 makes no difference? Then the government went out and said that you were prepared to save. It gave instructions for the investigation to save on assistance. A directive was given to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to stop the development of hours. Then we can see in the statistics a drastic difference. Don't the Social Democrats recognise that there is a difference?
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-37	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson finds it distressing that the undersigned relates a little white to the subject. I would like to remind you, Emma Henriksson, that you yourself often do the same. I guess we're just as good a cabbage drinker as you and me. No, I'm not saying that this problem is the same as it was ten years ago. But what I want to say is that the process has been going on for over ten years. There is even an announcement from the Committee on Social Affairs, which, among others, was a signatory of the Social Democrats, in which we made just the criticism that we are receiving from you today. We asked: Why do you not act when you see where it is going? In addition, the responsible minister belonged to your party, Emma Henriksson. You set up an investigation. What happened to that investigation, Emma Henriksson? You couldn't get to grips with the situation. That is why I believe that you are now throwing stones in glass houses. Nevertheless, I think that the current government has taken this issue seriously since 2014. A study has been commissioned with a number of directives. Authorities have been asked to look at the consequences and effects of the judgments. And we have now, in a short time, put forward two sharp legislative proposals on changes in this area. So I think we are acting at the rate that has been possible. Then I would like to emphasise that the situation is more serious today than it was in 2008. But given that the problem has existed all these years, Emma Henriksson, you should also have been able to do a little more at your time in power.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-42	Madam President, I would like It is clear that LSS legislation must be constantly monitored, and care must be taken to ensure that those in need also have their needs met. But what you Social Democrats constantly deny is that the politics and rhetoric you have brought about has led to drastic changes. One goes from the fact that in principle it is 45 – 50% of those seeking state assistance to 15 – 20%. And that change takes place in just a few years. Not all of these are helped by today's bill, where the municipality will inform the person who has lost their assistance hours, because not everyone will receive assistance from the municipality either. We see this in the statistics we have in this area. Fewer people today receive support at all. People get caught. Yes, you've brought in a stop to two-year trials. But all those who have already received their assistance are not helped by it. All those who depend on municipal personal assistance or other efforts within LSS are not helped by it. Today, people do not get the support they need, and it is the policies and rhetoric of the Social Democrats that have led to it. It is not primarily because you have come up with legislative proposals that have brought about changes, but because you did not come up with legislative proposals when we saw the drastic changes. From one year to another, it suddenly decreased by tens of percentage points in terms of how many people received assistance. Only 15% now, according to the authorities, have very extensive needs. The rhetoric is not enough: we have stopped two-year trials, and we are making some minor changes in the details. A policy is needed to change and restore.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-47	Madam President, I would like I don't really know what you're implying, Emma Henriksson. Are you implying that we have somehow influenced the authorities in relation to rejection or the impact of previous judgments? One may think a lot about why the judgment in 2009 was enforced in 2013, 2014– I agree with that. But if you think this is a good basis for a KU notification, because as far as I know, we must not be in the middle of ministerial government. We didn't change a comma in LSS legislation – and you know that, Emma Henriksson – until in the penultimate bill, when we stopped, among other things, the two-year review. Then it is clear that the number of refusals has increased dramatically, and that has had consequences. I'm the first one to admit it. But I am also saying that we are now trying to ask questions and, above all, to take a holistic approach around the whole of the legislation so that hopefully we can have new and modern legislation that will give it to those who need support and help. Here it sounds like we are quite in agreement during this parliamentary term in this House, because I see it as a formal matter: that it will go through. However, I think you should be a little humble because this is a process that has been going on for many years, as you said yourself. Then perhaps you would feel that you yourself also have a certain debt.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-51	Madam President, I would like 3 minutes and 55 seconds – so much time Mikael Dahlqvist spent talking about other things than today's question. Dahlqvist points out all the good things the government has done, but the fact is that it is the government's signal policy that has led to the situation that we have today. Then I am talking about the regulation letter, which we have heard about here, and not least about the statement by the Minister of Finance to cut costs for personal assistance and sickness benefit. That is what has had an impact in particular. Dahlqvist blames the development of watered down judgments with too much room for interpretation. Despite knowing how wrong things can be interpreted, the government chooses on this matter not to enter personal contact in the provision. You are content to think that it is implicit in the text, even though you know how wrong things can be interpreted. My question is: What makes you not want to enter this when you actually agree with the substance of the matter?
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your question, Carina Herrstedt! Let's start with the question. The Government has assessed that the adjustment made to the Social Security Code will be sufficient. As you know, municipalities are obliged to comply with Swedish law. Our hope is that they will take this issue seriously and comply with the legislation, as they always do. Then I try to describe the history. We cannot blame the Swedish Democrats for being responsible, because you have not been in government. But it is still a little interesting to hear the polemic on the issue. Among other things, I have looked through the shadow budget for this year from your party, Carina Herrstedt. There I see other things a saving of over 90 billion when it comes to municipalities and county councils. Then I think: How will the LSS in the future be able to last and develop when you make such a severe reduction? I'm sure I'll get this in response from you: We save on migration and so on. It's usually the standard answer. But I would like to see sharp proposals from the Swedish Democrats in this particular area. How can you, specifically, defend these intentions more than in fine words?
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-57	Madam President, I would like Thanks for one, as usual, non-answer! It was not an answer to the question of what is so dangerous about entering this. The government makes the assessment, but then how will it be interpreted? That is my question. We have seen time and again how things have been interpreted and misinterpreted, for that matter, and become something that was not meant to be. Here you lean against having an assessment and thinking that it is implicit. I don't agree with that. Then I understand that it is very difficult not to be able to blame the Swedish Democrats for this, because that is what you do as soon as you get a chance. It is rather ugly and dishonest to involve the shadow budget of the Swedish Democrats in this and the investment in LSS. In fact, the Swedish Democrats are investing half a billion more than the government is doing on these issues. That's the answer.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-61	Madam President, I would like I don't know if you heard badly, Carina Herrstedt, but I did say that we in the Swedish Parliament, the Legislative Assembly, must trust our municipalities, authorities, county councils and regions to comply with Swedish legislation. That's a pretty clear answer, isn't it? I do not know if you have a different agenda and suspect that our municipalities do not comply with Swedish legislation, but we trust that they do. That is our assessment. Then I do not think it is at all ugly to involve your shadow budget, because it is about how the whole concept holds together, Carina Herrstedt. If it is the case that substantial cuts are made in the welfare society, it will have consequences, and it will always have consequences for those who most need support and help.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-63	Madam President, I would like I have spoken earlier from this speaker's chair about the three girls from my hometown of Falun who were all proposed to be retired already in their teens but who refused to accept it and instead struggled to have a job that suited their situation. And I've been talking about Jonas who needs 24-hour assistance but who, with an iron will, is training and studying because he wants to be a cog in society. I want to highlight them again, because they are the heroes who are struggling with their disability every day and every hour. Not least, they also struggle to get community support and help. Their need for action under the LSS is being questioned. They are rejected and have to fight against critical authorities. There is concern around them, not least about the judgments that the Supreme Administrative Court has judged to be rejected. Is it my turn next time? These are fragile people who should be supported by society when they need it. Madam President, I would like The report before us today is a moderate one. It is good that we have clear rules for those who also organise assistance activities, whether it is a larger company or the persons entitled to assistance themselves. There have been many tours in recent years with changed conditions and difficult to keep up with. Emma Henriksson has illustrated this with good examples. We Moderates want to see fair and long-term conditions for everyone involved in the assistance activities. The needs of the people who need assistance are very different. The people I have mentioned are just a few examples of all the stories that I think we all hear about this business, and it is important for us Moderates that we have nice and long-term tools to get to grips with this. Madam President, I would like Even if the assistance reform has its shortcomings, there is also a problem with people falling between the chairs when it comes to principals. The shared headship is causing a great deal of concern in itself, and we need to deal with that. It should not be the case in a welfare state like Sweden that people should have to feel worried about being shoveled between different principals or that assessments should look radically different depending on where they live and where they are. We Moderates would like to see this made clearer and believe that we need to take a firmer approach to the main issue. It is crucial to strive for long-term sustainability in the area of assistance reform. It's about security. Around issues and decisions related to LSS and personal assistance, we need common solutions, a holistic approach and balanced balances aimed at the long-term, transparency, sustainability and hence security of the individual in need of assistance. This also applies in order to provide greater security and predictability for all relatives, all assistance providers and the responsible authorities, i.e. state and municipality. LSS and assistance is one of the most important freedom reforms in order to live an independent life, regardless of your needs and the conditions. It is a reform of freedom that we, as the Moderates, want to protect. Let us therefore jointly ensure the long-term and sustainability of those who really need it, namely those people who need and have the right to personal assistance. We will pursue these ideas during the additional debate on assistance that is under way next week.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-70	Madam President, I would like Listeners, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. But welfare is not the same for everyone. Someone prioritises work, other leisure time. Travel, family, friends, adventure, knowledge, financial security and being healthy are other examples of answers when asked: What does welfare mean for you? In Sweden, politics has long agreed that welfare should cover everyone. Therefore, laws that guarantee welfare in various forms have usually been passed with very broad majorities. The right to assistance under the Law on Support and Service, LSS, is a good example of the broad consensus. Several have spoken about the guiding judgments of which this report is partly dealing with consequences, but I was going to try to avoid it and instead talk a little about other parts of the history behind it. I'll start in 1989. At the time, the Social Democratic Minister for Social Affairs Bengt Lindqvist appointed the so-called Disability Investigation, which was the basis for the decision on the assistance reform through LSS. The question was thus investigated under a Social Democratic minority government, but by the time it was decided in autumn 1993, the country had changed to a moderate-led minority government. The fact that this reform is often linked to the People's Party Minister of Social Affairs who presented the 1993 bill may seem a little unfair to some when you study the history of the reform and the role that Bengt Lindqvist and Social Democracy actually played in it. By pointing out that the reform came under two minority governments – which are often regarded as each other's main enemies in politics – I would like to underline what I think most of those who have listened to the previous debates have actually understood, namely that with their now ten different efforts, of which assistance is only one, have had and still have very broad and strong support in Parliament. Madam President, I would like It turned out quite soon that the LSS legislation had many shortcomings, something that may not be so strange when making such a far-reaching and revolutionary change in the situation of a group. As early as 2001, just seven years after the law came into force, the then Social Democratic government therefore set up an investigation to clarify some of these efforts. In 2002, the report was issued with a supplementary assignment for the aid recipients in the field of working life. In 2006, an investigator was appointed who then received additional directives in 2007, and in 2008 came the report of the LSS Parliamentary Committee. An assistance compensation investigation was then set up in 2013. I find the report of the LSS Committee particularly interesting to look at as the background to the debate we have today on the LSS legislation and the future of assistance. The LSS Committee presents a great many major issues which they considered problematic at the time and which the legislator should address. Indeed, much of what is being put forward in the report by the LSS Committee are issues that we have still not dealt with and which we often raise and discuss in these debates. Unfortunately, all this investigation and problem-solving has not led to so much. Of course, the original law has been updated and supplemented many times: 2000, 2001, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2017 and also this year, 2018. It is only a few years when Parliament has not changed this legislation in any form. While some of these changes have been important and significant, most of them have been more of a technical nature and have been caused, for example, by difficulties in handling and the need for improved controls. The proposal on which today's report is concerned can also be seen mainly as fine-tuning. In this case, it is the new payment procedures for Försäkringskassan which had consequences that have now been corrected. There are already several people who have talked about this, so I will not repeat it. Such a review of the 23 years of assistance reform thus shows that it is a delicate and difficult piece of legislation that no government has managed to reform so far more fundamentally, although it is clear that there is a great need for it. I felt that the previous speaker, Mrs Ann-Britt, in particular, highlighted the shortcomings of the legislation. The judgments given show that legislation needs to be taken more deeply and thoroughly. Let me sum up what I've said. So there is still a need for large and broad support in the Riksdag for changes. The fear of reaching broad agreements has meant that nothing has happened, despite the fact that for many years it has been clear that adjustments are needed. The basic ideas and ideas behind the legislation should in practice continue to apply to those who so badly need the legislation. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-81	Madam President, I would like I have no direct objection to the proposals contained in the proposal we are debating today. However, as we, together with the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Left Party, write in our joint special opinion, the proposal does little to remedy the major shortcomings that exist in the application of the current legislation. I will therefore go along more generally with the question of assistance in my speech. The government, for example, has challenged the basic intentions of the law on support and service for certain disabled people, i.e. LSS, through regulatory letters and investigation directives. It's quite obvious. The number of persons entitled to state assistance compensation has fallen sharply. We have heard that from the speaker's seat. And this has happened despite the fact that all the statistics say that more should have been granted the state assistance allowance. These are people, individuals, people who have lost their assistance or been severely reduced. That this affects the possibility of living like others is evident. Life conditions, the possibility of an active life, whether it's about work or leisure time, are obviously affected. It is also the case that those who are refused assistance have doubled during the period. I say again that more should have been granted assistance. But, Madam President, it is not just a matter of figures in a table – not just statistics. These are individuals, people, who may have had their conditions changed considerably through an accident or illness. These are people who do not receive the support and assistance they need as a direct result of government policy during this term of office. It is a combination of passivity, that is, the government has chosen not to make proposals in time in a situation where courts and authorities have taken decisions that we believe are contrary to the intentions of the LSS, and a wide range of concrete decisions that strike directly at the assistance system. Where is faith in man and the equal value of all? For us in the Center Party, the most important task is to restore the basic intentions of the LSS. Having said that, what the government is now proposing, along with previous attempts to meet some of the strong criticism, is far from sufficient to restore the basic intention of legislation. The proposal is also far too late. Why has it taken so long? Why do you not want to do more when the signals have long been so clear? Madam President, I would like I would like to agree with those who point out that they are not satisfied with the government's handling of the issue of personal assistance. That is the least you can say in this context. Instead, it is important for the Center Party that everyone should have the opportunity to influence their own situation. If you have a disability, it is important that the help and support you receive is adapted to the individual's needs. Personal assistance is an important support that simplifies everyday life for people. For us in the Center Party, it is also important that everyone should have the opportunity to influence their own situation. If you have a disability, it is important that the help and support you receive is also adapted to the unique situation that applies to each person. Therefore, we in the Center Party also want to give people with disabilities more opportunities to decide on the content of support, help and service. Madam President, I would like The purpose of personal assistance is to provide continuous and coherent support so that people with disabilities have the opportunity to have a working everyday life in their own home, to participate in community or leisure activities, and to have a job or study. For us in the Center Party, it is absolutely essential that the legislation and the application of the law live up to this. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by referring to the special opinion supported by the Center Party.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-93	Madam President, I would like It is with great gratitude and with a measure of humility that I am opening the debate today. It is a huge gain for all of us who are fighting for LSS that the government has now decided to amend the directives in the LSS investigation by removing the saving requirement for personal assistance. I have a great deal of respect for politicians who dare to redo and do the right thing. And I am really relieved that the directives are being amended. That is a major step in the right direction. It is, of course, completely unreasonable to save people's rights, and I see the decision as a signal that it should not now be the economic interests that should govern without our needs and rights. I take it as proof that the government has decided that it is our right to live independent lives that should be in focus. It is not the new directive of the investigation that we are going to debate today, but with the new direction of the government that is the starting point we are going to have in the continuing debate on disability policy and on LSS. Now it is actually our needs that should be in focus and nothing else. The proposal that is on the table today concerns, among other things, the municipalities to inform those who have been rejected by the Social Insurance Agency of their rights. The aim is for fewer people to end up between the chairs. That is not an unimportant proposal. On the contrary, we have received several testimony, including in Stil's report Before I lived, now I exist, that people completely fall away when they receive rejection from the Social Insurance Agency. We in the Left Party therefore naturally support the proposal. However, there are certain aspects that give cause for some concern and which we need to highlight today. The background to the proposal is that over the last four years we have seen a marked increase in refusals from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and that more and more people are being referred to their municipalities. This is partly because the Government has called on the Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of hours, partly because two governments in a row have focused on false notions of cheating and criminality and partly because they have allowed finances to take precedence over needs. It is also due to a number of judgments that have eroded the legislation and which the Social Insurance Agency has clearly interpreted too harshly. The result has been that thousands of people have not had their rights satisfied and thus had their lives completely torn apart. One of the government's responses has been that municipalities need to shoulder their responsibilities more clearly. That is absolutely correct. However, there is an assumption here that is really worrying, namely that it is the same thing to get your input through the municipality as it is from the state. It almost sounds like it's just a question of which bag the money comes from. Madam President, I would like The government is as aware as we are that those who are rejected by the Social Insurance Agency face a completely different reality when they are referred to the municipalities. Instead of getting an effort with self-determination and empowerment, the transfer can mean that they receive completely different interventions than assistance. We know that hours are falling drastically, and we know that assessments differ greatly between municipalities. To a certain extent, we do not really know what action a person receives after he has been rejected by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. There are testimonies about people who today, 2018, become prisoners in their own homes or referred to a life like that before the reform of freedom was introduced. Of course, it is extremely important that there is legislation that works for nobody to fall between the chairs, but it is even more important that none of us let it appear that it is the solution to the hair-moving development we have seen in recent years. What is required for you to be guaranteed your rights is that the LSS reform regains its functionality. This calls for a change of law based on all the judgments that have been handed down since 2008. It really matters if you receive assistance granted through Försäkringskassan or if you are referred to a municipality. Madam President, I would like In the upcoming LSS investigation, the lead is one of the parts now under review. There is therefore great concern in the movement that a municipalisation will be proposed. For those who were not in time before the law on LSS was introduced, it can be difficult to understand why fear is so great. But if we know our story, the worry is perfectly reasonable. If we all really understood that this concerns us all, we would probably be more divided. Personal assistance, as we all know by now, is a fantastic guarantee that each of us will have the right to live as a free and independent individual, regardless of our functionality. It is absolutely essential in a democracy and in order to guarantee our human rights. The amazing thing about personal assistance is that it gives us real opportunity to live a life like others and decide for ourselves what we want to do with our lives on the same terms, regardless of our functionality. Before the reform was introduced in 1994, it was almost impossible for municipalities to meet the assistance needs of them with extensive needs. For the daily needs of a few hours it may have worked well, but the rest of the time people in our country were condemned to a life in captivity. Nor does it take much knowledge of municipal finances to understand that a person with extensive needs became a red dot in the municipal budget. It was a person who could be pointed out and whose life came to be in the hands of politicians with demands for budget in balance, where an individual's right to his life was reduced to a bag of money. There is no indication that things would be so much different today. This is exactly what we see in the reports that are presented about what is happening to those who end up with the municipality. This is the reality in which the more than 1,200 people who have been rejected today can find themselves. Finally, I would like to stress that it is really important that it is clear today that this proposal does not remedy the terrible development we have seen. For that, a change of law is required. But it is also extremely important to show that a transfer from one principal to another is not just an economic transaction but can be the difference between living like others and just existing. We support the proposal on which we are to vote today, but we also have a specific opinion to clarify our positions.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-109	Madam President, I would like The report we are discussing today raises a number of worrying questions about how and when to replace and so on. It is welcome – it simplifies for those involved, so of course we support that. At the same time, however, as several speakers have mentioned, this does not solve the major problems we have left with the assistance compensation. This does not mean any improvement for the perhaps 1 400 people who have lost their assistance or who have received no and not yes. Today it is one in ten who get yes; the others get no. It also leads to injustice in the area. Today, in fact, people with assistance are treated more favourably than those who have lost it, had it reduced or had it rejected. This is unacceptable discrimination. This is, as many have said, a major reform of freedom. It is intended to give people with disabilities the opportunity to live a life like Svensson – LSS. But it has been eroded in recent years, as several have also pointed out. The cuts since 2015 have been carried out by Försäkringskassan, and individual aid beneficiaries feel it in their skins. But it is not only those but also their relatives and their workplaces, where they can no longer hold jobs because they have lost their assistants. I would like to mention the creators of this reform. Jan Lindholm was at Bengt Lindqvist. I want to go even further back in time. It was Karl Grünewald, who became medical council at the National Board of Health and Welfare with these questions on his table, who with his own experience as a doctor in the field reacted to how many people with disabilities could live in an institution. His mantra was: We have to create a society where you can live like all other people. It has to be possible. He laid the foundation for LSS, which Bengt Westerberg picked up in his election manifesto in 1985 and which Bengt Lindqvist then confirmed. It is much thanks to the fact that these two Bengt cooperated as well as the assistance reform survived the turn of the government in 1994. This is a thought, a goal, to which we must return. We can't just count costs all the time. As far as the ongoing LSS investigation and amended directives are concerned, we may read them in a slightly different way. However, I think it is a mistake when the government sets up investigations and, at the same time, says in the directive that we must not bring any news with less than removing other things, so that we must stay within the budget that already exists. I believe that an investigation should be based on the objective of meeting the needs of disabled people to live in freedom like others. You should look at what needs need to be met, cost them and hand them over to a government. Then it is up to politics to prioritise between different areas of concern, and then it is not certain that this should be given priority only in the social field. After all, we have defined budget areas in the budget – nine, ten, eleven, twelve and so on. In that case, there may be cuts in appropriations in other areas, because it is about what needs we want to meet. I can also see that we have age discrimination in this context. I have spoken about it earlier in this House. You can be eligible for assistance up to 65, but if you do not have assistance, you will get assistance after 65, it is home care and care for the family. We see groups coming into this, so to speak, the danger zone, namely those who were injured in the most recent epidemics in the early 50s and the neurosedyn injured. There are other examples. I would like to see such a government looking at their needs and calculating the cost of assistance in comparison with home care, family care, loss of work income and other things so that we can then give priority to policy. We in the Liberals support this particular opinion.
i-gyYMdbHrttDKgGtGrVLZa	Madam President, I would like SkU20 report deals with the Government's proposal for the Slopad tax exemption for the benefit of health care. The proposal proposes to abolish the tax exemption for the benefit of health care in Sweden, which is not publicly funded and for the benefit of healthcare and medicines abroad. The reason for this proposal can be speculated in – it is justified, among other things, by increased transparency in the tax system and increased uniformity and equivalence in healthcare, but it is probably just as much about increasing tax revenues. The Swedish Democrats have called for a rejection of the bill simply because we believe that it does not solve any of the problems we face. In fact, the problems are in danger of getting worse – and the problems are obvious. Public health care in Sweden is overloaded. After three years with Stefan Lövven's government, Sweden has one of Europe's longest waiting times in healthcare. In addition, after falling over the years 2007– 2014, the care queues are growing strongly – they are now back at the same high levels as in 2007. Over 100,000 people are in care queues. More than one in four patients is forced to wait longer than three months for surgery in specialist care. Accessibility in Swedish healthcare has in recent years been in a downward spiral without the politicians in charge seem to have any plan to reverse the trend. What is the reason why an increasing number of private health insurance policies have recently been taken out? It is a situation which has arisen as a result of the overload of public health services, as I have just mentioned, and that in some places it has a dysfunctional organisation and also lacks sufficient resources. The lack of resources is simply due to the fact that we have a government that does not allocate sufficient resources to health care, while at the same time pursuing an immigration policy that imposes additional burdens on health care without in any way contributing to its funding. The current proposal is in danger of further burdening. The government's proposal would lead to an increase in the tax burden for all those who have signed up for such a private insurance policy, which could lead to fewer taking out such insurance policies. In the long run, we will have to assume that more people will apply for the county-funded care. But in the situation that Sweden is currently in, with long queues of care, stressed health care professionals and a lack of resources, the proposal risks strengthening the negative development of the critical Swedish healthcare system. So the timing of this proposal could hardly be worse. Whether the Government's aim of the proposal is to remove a sour cream file for better mediated or to increase the uniformity of the tax system does not hold the line of reasoning. The proposal removes the tax exemption for private employees but not for state employees posted abroad. Some consultation bodies have also pointed out that the new law is being introduced far too quickly to allow companies to adjust their administrative procedures, which in the short term means an increased administrative burden on companies. This, too, is not taken into account by the government, and interestingly enough, neither does the bourgeois part of the opposition. As the report shows, the alliance parties are actually opposed to this proposal. Yet they have not submitted a reservation. Should the bourgeois Alliance allow this proposal to go through by abstaining in tomorrow's vote, it is again shown, with all the necessary clarity, that the December agreement is still a very living reality. Despite the fact that there is a majority in this House against the Government's proposal, it will nevertheless be approved. Those who voted in favour of the Alliance in the last election thus received a red-green policy that runs all the way into the tile. However, there is no lack of solutions to the basic problems of health care. As mentioned earlier, care queues in Sweden decreased in 2007– 2014, and they can start doing so again with the right policies. Denmark, for example, has managed to eliminate the care queues completely, and we are convinced that it is quite possible here in Sweden too, with the right priorities. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats have chosen to spend most of their efforts on those who work in health care. We believe that substantial improvements for the country's health care workers are crucial to improving accessibility. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to abolish the involuntarily shared tours for health workers, give nurses and nurses the opportunity to develop skills on paid working hours and strengthen the overall wage development. We also believe that Karen's Day should be abolished for healthcare professionals. In addition to this, we have also proposed comprehensive strengthening of the overall activities and quality of health care. We have also budgeted for all these proposals. Madam President, I would like This proposal does not solve problems; it risks exacerbating those we already have. I therefore believe that the proposal should be rejected and therefore call for the approval of reservation No 1 in the report.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-131	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of Amendment No 2, which, among other things, means that the report should be rejected. Through the Government's proposal behind this report, the government will increase inequalities in healthcare and create longer care queues and longer periods of sick leave, and companies will be declared bankrupt. The government obviously thinks that is a good policy. I don't think so. The Alliance seems to think something like me, but it leaves the government to implement this harmful proposal. I welcome the fact that SD and Alternatives for Sweden want to reject this proposal. In my speech, I will point out some of the factors which lead the proposal to the effects described. Then I will touch on the amazing lax attitude towards the democratic order of decision that allows such bad legislative proposals to be threshed through the Swedish Parliament. Madam President, I would like More than 600 000 people currently have private health insurance. They can be completely private or signed through an employer. They thus have an important task to fulfil, not least in order to cut waiting times for necessary care and thereby reduce both suffering and costs of sick leave. If private health insurance is significantly reduced, the burden on public health care will increase significantly. We will also see extended periods of sick leave. There are therefore several good reasons to encourage people to take out private health insurance in today's pressured public health care situation. Tax exemption is a good way to resolve this issue because the tax bill still pays for the public health care you do not take advantage of. It is therefore a fair question that private health insurance should be fully deductible. One of the main reasons for the existence of private health insurance is that public health care does not respond to reasonable demands for a well-functioning healthcare apparatus. Extreme waiting times and thus increasing the burden of care in some patients, but also deaths while waiting for care, weaken confidence in public health care. This is one of the main reasons why private health insurance has increased so much. It is estimated that about half of today's health insurance will disappear after this tax burden. This will lead to problems for several health care companies, and some are likely to go bankrupt as a result. In addition, the tax shock hits the lowest-income policyholders most, contrary to the government's stated objective. I have to ask the question: what do you think red-greens are fighting for the distribution policy consideration to take as a starting point? I think the proposal is a bad idea. Madam President, I would like Many small businesses depend entirely on staff having an absolutely minimal absence. An important issue, such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs in their referrals, is that health insurance is a crucial part of the companies' most important tool for fulfilling their work environment responsibilities and reducing sick leave. Since small businesses have a very important role to play in Swedish society, for example in terms of increasing employment, there is also a social interest in their functioning as painlessly as possible. Given that the county councils are unable to deliver an adequate level of public health care, it is highly reasonable and logical for many small businesses to ensure effective care for their employees when needed. It is a survival issue for many small businesses. Similar problems also exist in larger companies. For this reason too, increasing the taxation of such insurance is a counterproductive measure. The government's fiscal hunger is also demonstrated by the fact that the proposed preferential taxation is based on an illogical basis. Instead, the assessment of the supposed benefit must be made in an adequate and logical manner. It should therefore be linked to the cost that would be borne by the policyholder if the care was provided by the public health service. This means that if the insurance-paid care is free of charge, the benefit value would be the current patient's contribution, i.e. the costs you do not have to pay in comparison with the public health care. Everything else becomes a purely fiscal ambition. It should also be possible to deduct the excess risks you pay in the use of insurance services. When Alternatives for Sweden govern, rules are designed so that they become fair and equal, not as now when the Red-Green and Alliance create injustice. The Government proposes that healthcare and medicines in connection with work abroad should continue to be exempt from tax. It is a fundamentally good order, but it should not be different conditions for public and private employees in this respect. For government officials, the Government wants healthcare and pharmaceutical costs to be exempt from tax, which is not proposed for private employees. There is no reason to depart from the principle of equal treatment in this regard. There should be equivalent rules for everyone in our alternative for Sweden. Madam President, I would like In the 2018 budget bill, the government announced an unfinished proposal to abolish the tax exemption for the benefit of healthcare. The Government therefore considers that the proposal should be considered as part of the budget, with reference to the idea of a single budgetary process. The Government therefore considers that it is not possible to call for a rejection of the proposal for the sharp proposal, which has now been completed – just over five months later –. The same methodology was used to trump through increased return tax on investment savings accounts and capital insurance in November 2017. The government is therefore sneaking ideas on tax proposals into the budget process as if they were ready-made proposals. This removes the requirements for the preparation of the government form. The Alliance protested loudly in November but clung flatly in the decision, and thus the betrayal of taxpayers was a fact. We are very likely to hear a number of the representatives of the alliance parties standing here in the speaker's chair saying how badly they think the proposal to abolish the tax exemption for the benefit of health care is. If they do this, they are absolutely right; it is a very bad proposal that will have serious consequences for health care, businesses and individuals. Shortly after telling them how badly they dislike the proposal, they will say that they still let the government get what it wants and that they let the proposal become law. One of the Alliance's representatives will probably also say that they will tear up the decision as soon as they can, at a later date. The government is thus in breach of the demands of the government, and the Alliance allows it to happen, just as was promised in the December agreement. Another current bill also wants to change the parliamentary order so that these parties can deviate from the present system without receiving criticism. It is unethical and undemocratic behaviour that puts Parliament's working methods at risk. Madam President, I would like We believe that this type of proposal – there are 11 similar cases in the budget proposal for the 2018 State Budget – should not be dealt with in the context of the overall budgetary process. This is contrary to the fundamental intention of the parliamentary order, which is based on the fact that prepared proposals in the budget should be dealt with in a single framework decision. It is also contrary to the requirements of the government. Proposals which are not ready shall not be included in the budget. It is not more difficult than that, at least not when Alternatives for Sweden reign. The Government proposes that the legislative amendments should enter into force as early as 1 July. This means that already concluded agreements on health insurance suddenly get completely new conditions. We need to have stable rules of play so that we can act in the long term and in a sustainable way from different perspectives. Such a rapid change in an essential issue involving 600 000 people is not acceptable because it means that companies dealing with insurance for their employees do not have a reasonable chance of dealing with the administrative requirements that accompany the amendment. When Alternatives for Sweden govern, there should always be enough time for serious implementation of new laws.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-153	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that the government, with the report we are debating today, is drawing the budgetary framework to its extremes. The government is using the report to abuse the budgetary framework. When the regulations were laid down, the aim was never that the revenue estimates in the autumn budget should be the framework and that a separate bill should be presented six months later, as the government is now doing. This behaviour risks significantly weakening confidence in the fiscal framework. Madam President, I would like The government wants to tax employees for private health care offered by employers. This affects more than 400 000 people who have private health insurance through their employer. Even those who receive private health care paid by employers without insurance receive increased costs. The proposal to abolish tax exemption for the benefit of healthcare is counterproductive. Being able to offer their employees care means that their health increases and sick leave decreases. It is a profit for society as well as the employee and the company. The argument that it is about cream files into public health care is not true. It is not possible, with the help of a private health insurance policy, to take priority in any care queue because publicly funded care and privately funded care have separate queues. Private care providers must first receive patients in accordance with the agreements they have with county councils and regions. Patients who have health insurance are then accepted to the extent of space. That's what the law says. The government's proposal is a blow to public health, a brake block in companies' work for reduced sick leave and an increased cost for ordinary people who want to have a security against illness. That's a really bad suggestion. Instead, the Center Party wants to reward reforms that create a more sustainable labour market where it is easy to get help if you get sick. Madam President, I would like The government's proposal is not only bad in substance, but it is also dubious and ill-designed. I am thinking first of all of the fact that the government is carrying out a major tax change in the current tax years. This poses a number of challenges and inconveniences. For example, for those companies that have already paid contributions for the full year, the tax exemption would apply for the whole year. However, for those companies, including a significant proportion of smaller companies, which pay their health care contributions on an ongoing basis, the right to deduct suddenly disappears from 1 July. We cannot have this type of twitchiness and unpredictability in a legally secure tax system such as Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is therefore against the government's proposal. We say no to that in our shadow budget. The other alliance parties have also expressed the same view. The proposal has an impact on central government revenue and is part of the income statement decided by the Riksdag in autumn 2017. The statement of revenue is set out in the entirety of the budgetary decision. The specific proposal under discussion today aims to implement the legislative amendment resulting from the budget decision. Changes in parts of budget decisions afterwards can have far-reaching consequences, not only for the political system but also for the Swedish economy. We do not want to go back to the time when expenditure ran out and there was no revenue cover. As the Centre Party's budget motion has been rejected, we are abstaining from voting on the special bill on this matter. Madam President, I would like In the current case, the government's management of the budget shows that we need to review and update the fiscal framework. We must formalise and state in writing how certain issues should be taken into account. One such important issue is the so-called reservation ban. On the side of the alliance parties, we have pointed out and called for this, most recently in the investigation that came in the previous autumn. It was tasked with looking at a clearer budget process and had the same name. We received no response from the other parties in that investigation, which I regret. From representatives of the Alliance side, these issues will be further considered and presented here from the speaker's seat. However, the fact remains as to how the view on the reservation ban should be interpreted, and it needs to be further defined. There must be no ambiguity in the framework. Madam President, I would like Right after the election, the Center Party wants to restore order and withdraw the government's tax increase on private care through employers, so that companies can continue working for reduced sick leave and so that ordinary people don't have to pay extra to get help when they get sick. For the Center Party, this is too important a matter to let go here and now. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that the alliance parties have a joint special opinion in the report.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-166	Madam President, I would like This issue of the tax exemption for health care actually has two dimensions. One is strictly fiscal policy, based on logic and symmetry, to create a tax system that is reasonable, predictable and uniform. We think that's a good thing. This reform on the tax exemption for health insurance was introduced in 1946, when we did not have a general health insurance. It was first introduced in 1955. So it is an archaic remnant that has slumbered now. I will come back to that. The second dimension is perhaps more urgent. It is about joint funding and a fair and needs-driven distribution in order to create equal health care. Last Tuesday the radio had excellent Studio A two block d are all parliamentary parties debated and expressed their views on health care. I listened to the debate. It was a lot about resources, accessibility, priorities and the challenges that healthcare is facing with the development of medical devices and the cost development that it entails. I did not hear anyone talking about separate health insurance – not a beep from any party that thought this was important to bring in and bless in the debate. The advantage of joint financing and a common organisation of health care is, in addition to the equality aspect, that it is characterised by low transaction costs. The resources go to health care and not to the companies or insurance business. Private financing is characterised by high transaction costs, low solidarity and non-existent equality. What we have seen in private health insurance is a rapid expansion from the gutter I was talking about. It is not random, but there is a strong whip from capital interests that drives a market-like care and care. For there is money, and it deceives and can be taken. The big flagship of the Moderates, the hospital New Karolinska – this squad – becomes more incomprehensible for every report you get on how the moderate county council has handled the hospital. It is actually created as a device and mechanism for independent malls to be able to operate with private medical care. There, neo-liberal interests in healthcare and care meet insurance interests and try to create the conditions. One of the most important prerequisites for creating this is to drive forward private health insurance. Those of you who think this is so urgent must have a reasonable idea that someone should have a better insurance policy than anyone else and that someone's ailment is valued higher than anyone else's. Otherwise, you don't need that insurance. Then only the common insurance, i.e. the insurance, Per Åsling, that many self-owned forest farmers and crofters were involved in fighting for, would be given reasonable conditions and the right to health care. It was a conquest of the small people when the general health insurance could be introduced. We Social Democrats will not help to shoot it. Health care should be insured together, and only the best is good enough for the whole people.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-173	Madam President, I would like The current government continues its tax promotion policy. During this term of office, taxes have so far been increased by SEK 60 billion. Central government expenditure has increased by SEK 100 billion. This strikes directly at companies, at entrepreneurs, at those who make an effort, at those who do the right thing and at those who are the engine of the Swedish economy and therefore the basis of the common welfare. The fact that the current government now wants to further tax those who take responsibility for workers' ill health, for mental ill health and for employers who want to prevent and prevent sick leave is a very bad policy. It is a direct counterproductive policy. It is also something that goes against the oath that the government is saying in the same breath, namely that it wants to change and improve. So you say one thing, but you do the opposite. Madam President, I would like It is during the current government that care queues have doubled. Over 100,000 patients are now in care queues. The fact that over 650 000 people – most of whom, over 70 per cent – have been given greater responsibility by their employer is clearly for the benefit of the individual employee. The fact that many small entrepreneurs – there are many one-man entrepreneurs – and a strong dependence on key skills has benefited and that the common, together in society, has benefited is self-evident. However, these proposals run counter to the idea of improving and strengthening, preventing ill health and mental illness and reducing sickness absence. For all of us who want to break the negative trend in terms of mental illness, which unfortunately continues to grow, these proposals run counter to the work. The government's proposals simply have many wrong starting points. The Government's proposals may even exacerbate the situation and have negative consequences for access to joint care. Against this background, we have said no, voted against and opposed these proposals in the course of the autumn's budget reading. The impact of the proposal on central government revenue is included in the income statement decided by the Riksdag last autumn. The estimates of revenue are set out in full in connection with the budget, and the legislation resulting from this today is linked to the coherent budgetary process supported by the Riksdag as a whole. If the Riksdag were to change parts of a budget decision afterwards, it would have far-reaching negative consequences for the Swedish economy – but above all for trust in Swedish politics. The proposal is ill prepared and contains a great many inaccuracies and ambiguities, not least in the borderland between what is preventive health, what is care and what is occupational health care. When it comes to how this is supposed to go together, the government is guilty of the answer. Madam President, I would like Let me therefore be clear on the side of the Moderates and Alliance parties: any tax increases that strike at those who are trying – those who are working, saving and further training – are tax increases that the Moderates and alliance parties do not want to see. We are doing everything we can to ensure that there will be a new government and pursue a different policy here in Parliament. We have another draft budget – a budget option for plant power and for Sweden to move forward. At the same time, however, we want to safeguard order and order in state finances, Madam President. Long-term planning must set the rules for the Swedish economy. So vulnerable is the Swedish economy. The framework affects Sweden's finances. We are therefore concerned when not all parties in the Swedish Parliament relate to the common regulatory framework, especially in terms of budgetary practice, the fiscal framework and a coherent budgetary process. We assume that all other parties in the Swedish Parliament relate to a unified, joint budget process. Our framework has served Sweden well for a long time. It's very easy to forget. Not least at a time of international prosperity and when the Swedish export industry is booming, it is easy to forget why the fiscal framework came about. It came about in a time of heavy fiscal crisis because Sweden is a small, highly export-dependent country and heavily dependent on its surrounding world. Now you can take it easy. Now it can be easy to deviate from practice, as in 2013, for example. At that time several of the parties helped to break out and did not relate to the common, unified budgetary process. But we believe that it is rather in these times, when the Swedish economy is doing well thanks to a strong international boom, that we should safeguard stable rules of play for the future. It is precisely in these times that we should take responsibility as elected representatives and look at practices and the whole. Rules of play apply today, and they apply tomorrow. They also applied yesterday. We relate to them. We participate in every possible conversation to ensure that we have a unified, common budgetary process and that it is as stable as possible in the short and long term. That is why we choose to abstain in the vote we have tomorrow, with reference to our budget, because we are against the proposal and because we have voted on it on an earlier occasion.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-183	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting talk, but there are three questions that I think were left unanswered. I would like answers to them. First of all, we know from the documents that the income of insurance companies for this insurance is 2.4 billion. Now I would like to ask for an indication of the extent of the damage. My second question is: do Cecilia Widegren and the Moderates think that more or less of health care should be conducted privately in our country? My third question is: if you have two people at home in Northern Vånga who fall and get equally injured, who should go first – the one who has the private health insurance or the one who is covered by the joint? Those are my questions.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-188	Madam President, I would like Thank you for requesting a reply, Social Democrat Peter Persson! There are urgent questions to which the representative of the Government should also answer and which should be included in the parliamentary minutes. Among other things, it concerns the question of the Social Democrats today and in the future will always relate to the common budgetary framework, the common budgetary process and the practices prevailing in the Swedish parliament and never again make the kind of drop-out from similar frameworks as the Social Democrats did in 2013. Peter Persson asks about health care. It should be based on joint and several funding and carried out by the most appropriate one, and we will jointly monitor and monitor the quality that benefits patients in that funding. There are not and have never been different queues within the common healthcare system, because the health law that the Swedish Parliament is behind is clear that it is the needs that govern who gets help in the healthcare system. It is not determined by the form of insurance, tax bases or the like. It has never done so and will never do so on the basis of the Swedish Health Care Act; any doctor or nurse can vouch for that. To conclude, I can only note that Peter Persson may have slept at the internal hearing we had in the Tax Committee, where it was possible to ask all kinds of questions to Svensk Försäkring about the effects of the Government's proposal. It may also be that the effects are not clear enough, because the proposal is so poorly understood that Peter Persson cannot get an answer from the Government Office and thus hold the opposition to account.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-191	Madam President, I would like My question was actually a check on the sleep state of Members at the committee meeting. I did not sleep, but I can answer the first question I asked and to which you did not answer, Cecilia Widegren. That's 2.4 billion in premium income and 0.5 billion in claims. There will be 1.9 billion in pure revenue to the companies for this insurance. How many health centres could not have been run for that sum? You're the company's best friend. Your shoes may not be as worn as those of the Swedish Democrats – they run around on different expeditions and in financial palaces and collect their exercise data. But you're infected with the same thing. Your interest here is not common people's need for care, but it is to protect insurance companies' large revenues. You're floating away on the issue of private and public affairs, and I understand that. This is the really sore point of the Moderates. There is a large and strong public support for tax money to go to activities in healthcare, for example, and not run away in transactions or in the form of private profits. Nor could you answer the question as to how Northern Vånga would relate to the two poor people and who would receive care first. But now you have one more chance to answer.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-195	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the Moderates and alliance parties will always primarily protect the patient and the quality of the patient. That is what we are following up, and that is what we will ensure at all times – on the basis of our responsibilities – that we will strengthen. We will not contribute to doubling the care queues. In addition, we have the advantage of being a government that ensures that the queues of care are drastically reduced and that access to healthcare is increased in order to strengthen it as much as possible. With this fact, we will ask for a further mandate from the Swedish people to ensure that the care queues to which the current government has contributed are cut. I am sorry that a social democrat like Peter Persson does not take the chance to establish for the future and put on Parliament's record that the Social Democrats can be trusted in terms of a coherent budgetary process. It makes me deeply concerned and very distressed that such an important issue, which hangs over all areas of policy, is not addressed when it is put and is so concrete and extremely easy to answer. Is it considered to be a future state-supporting party? Maybe that's what's falling now. Finally, I can say that I replied very clearly to how the Health Act works. It is the needs that are put first. This is what governs who receives care in Sweden. This should be the case, it has been the case and we defend the solidarity-based common health care system as a basis for the future as well.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-199	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard both Per Åsling and Cecilia Widegren confirm my concerns and explain that this is a bad proposal but that nothing will be done about it. You lie flat for the red-green government's poor budget management. It just doesn't hold. We cannot act in this way. There is only one correct description of the behaviour of the Alliance here, namely hypocrisy. It's nothing but that. It is possible to stop the proposal. The question is whether Cecilia Widegren and her colleagues will do so. It's all about pressing the right button tomorrow. I welcome it if you come to your senses and take this step. Cecilia Widegren also spoke about the joint budgetary process. Sure, that's a very important question. I agree. But this process must be based on proposals prepared in accordance with the form of government. Don't the Moderates and Cecilia Widegren understand that? This is a very important question – otherwise you can pick any fairy tales in a budget process, and Cecilia Widegren will vote for it or lie flat for it no matter what. I must also ask the question in this regard: does Cecilia Widegren really think that proposals that are not prepared in accordance with the form of government should be included in a budgetary process? I don't think so. Does the Alliance really think you should be able to do that?
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-203	Madam President, I would like It is very easy for a former Swedish democrat who is now a partyless member of the Swedish Parliament, and who at an earlier time took the opportunity not to try to relate to budgetary practice or to the fiscal framework, to stand again in the speaker's seat and say that it is just to do this or that. In my speech, I tried to explain clearly how important it is to be long-term in terms of the rules that we have in common in times when the Swedish economy is doing well thanks to an international boom. The Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats joined forces when they broke out part of the 2013 budget. This is not the attitude of the Moderates and Alliance parties to the fiscal framework and to the budgetary practice we have, or indeed to a coherent budgetary process. We want order in the rules of the game and in the long-term framework. We want to discuss the content – we want a discussion and a match in the Swedish economy about the important decisions for the future. But what if we cannot relate to the rules of the game and are constantly changing the playing field? What would a football match look like, Olle Felten, if you changed the rules of the game to make it easier to score against your opponent if you wanted to? What would a hockey game look like, Olle Felten, if you changed the game rules a little bit as it suited in general? For us, these issues are bigger and more important than that. The proposal contains bad policies – we have voted on that, and we are clear about that. But we are also very clear that we are taking a long-term view of the common rules of the game, for which we, as elected representatives, have a responsibility.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-207	Madam President, I would like It was a good thing that Cecilia Widegren raised the issue of the rules of the game, because that is exactly what this is all about. The government bends the rules of the game when it throws unprepared proposals into the budget process, and I do not understand that the Alliance and Cecilia Widegren's Moderate Party are putting up with the rule change that the government makes when acting in this way. Eleven tax proposals in this year's state budget lack preparation according to the government form, and then the Moderates and Cecilia Widegren can stand and talk about compliance with the rules of the game. You have laid the ground for a budget that contains eleven unfinished tax proposals. I will never be in such a system. This type of rules does not belong in the Swedish parliament, and it does not belong in the government form's explanation of what preparation should look like. It does not belong in the parliamentary order's description of what the budget process should look like, but it belongs in the landfill. I have to ask the question again: when will M begin to look at the actual content – which Cecilia Widegren has just referred to – and not just the scenes on important budgetary issues? That's exactly what you've done. When are you going to start looking at the issues?
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-210	Madam President, I would like The discussion that we have now is not just about this term of office but also about something that our successors will inherit and have with them. It is therefore extremely important for us Moderates and for the alliance parties that we can stand here and say something that our successors can inherit in terms of how we relate to the common rules and how we operate within the framework that we have jointly developed. In this case, it is a budgetary practice of 1996. I did not sit in the Swedish Parliament then, but I relate to what my predecessors were once involved in developing and to the budgetary practice that has prevailed. I have had colleagues who have been in the joint budget preparation, and I am also referring to this in a sense of responsibility that we have here to do. It is sad that a non-party member of the Swedish Parliament does not adhere to the common rules. Otherwise, we could have had a discussion about what is common, namely how to strengthen the patient and get better access to healthcare. It would have been a much better discussion and a better topic of conversation. It's bad politics, and it's going in the trash. A government that is unable to produce government proposals, and that ensures that the processes are extended so that the Swedish Parliament can handle these kinds of issues in May, of course, should be replaced. We'll go to elections on that. Furthermore, we on the Alliance side are prepared to shoulder such a responsibility, based on a common coherent policy and where the regulatory framework is also linked to the political content.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-214	Madam President, I would like It is not so often that health care is up for debate when the Tax Committee deals with reports. But there is also a tax aspect to this in the bill that has come to Parliament on the abolition of tax exemption for the benefit of health care. This is a proposal that is part of the 2018 budget proposal and has now come as a separate proposal. The proposal means that healthcare should no longer be a tax-free benefit, but that the person who receives it paid by his employer should be taxed in favour of it. We usually agree, at least decently, that the tax system should be simple, consistent and neutral. There are few things that can be obtained as a tax-free benefit, and so it is reasonable for this to be removed. In time, there have been quite a few who have a private health insurance paid by their employer. Anyone who has the most to gain from it is the one who has the highest marginal tax, so even from the point of view of distribution policy, this change makes sense. There are also considerably more men than women who today have such insurance paid by the employer, about two thirds. In Sweden we have publicly funded healthcare. Regardless of what your illness or injury is due to and regardless of your ability to pay, you will receive care as needed. The one who is sickest is the highest priority. It's a good model. The tax-free regime came into being for simplification reasons when very few people were involved. So now that there have been quite a few, there is reason to change this. Madam President, I would like Health care is a very important issue, not least in the run-up to the elections. And that is good, because it is an area that is very important. We have a very good healthcare in Sweden, but there is a development potential. Strengthening primary care, not least in order to relieve the burden of emergency care, is an important part, as is training more nurses and protecting the working environment, so that staff can remain. Health care also needs more resources. Although this is not the whole answer, it is an important part. Accessibility needs to be improved. We also need to make much better use of the opportunities of digitalisation. Of course, it is also a question of prevention. In this context, it is important not to forget mental illness, not least among the younger population. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-221	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we in the Liberals think that this is a very bad proposal. In our budget last autumn we did not have this tax increase, and we voted against it in the budget process. If we, together with the alliance friends, win the elections and come into government in September, we will tear up the decision in the first budget. I will not talk more about this issue, but rather about the budgetary procedure issue. In the past, my colleagues have argued well in substance and also in relation to the budgetary process, but I thought I would go further into this. The most recent study on the subject, A coherent budgetary process, a report by the K ommittén on a clearer budgetary process, is a kiosk roller. It will come as a film this autumn for those of you who are unable to read it this summer. In this there is a great deal that is useful to take on board, not least for non-party MPs in this House, especially non-party MPs who talk about Swedish traditions. Here we have a Swedish tradition that very much decision-making between the government and parliament in the Swedish Parliament is based on practices and agreements between parties, which hold the elections and between parties, despite the change of members. This is something of great respect when you sit on the Constitutional Committee and see it on a daily basis, but it is going on in all committees all the time. What happened in 2013 was that the then opposition led by the Social Democrats broke this practice and broke out of the budget. For this, the Social Democrats who were involved in the investigation have apologized. They said it was wrong and they won't do it again. I very much hope that this is true and that it will last in the future. I choose to trust this. At least we will not be the ones who are breaking this. The reason we have a coherent budgetary process is that we used to have an incoherent budgetary process. It was long and very thick. It was difficult for the government, and it was even more difficult for the opposition. This meant, among other things, that the state finances were constantly rocking. It was not just for that reason, but it contributed to the disorder that prevailed in the state finances. That is why, in the 1990s, it started to look at how to get a single budget process and have then implemented it in different stages. That is why we first adopt the budget in a framework decision. That is why it is so important, it says in the investigation, among other things, that when these decisions are taken, the budget will not be broken later. If we were to draw this proposal here today – it is very tempting, and there are, in substance, very good arguments for this – there would suddenly be a hole in the state budget. Now there is only one billion in this gigantic state budget. But it is not the sum here that is crucial; it is the principle. It could just as well be 15 or 45 billion that the Riksdag has already decided on, which means that a hole suddenly emerges. This is the execution of the previous decisions of the Riksdag. What we from the Alliance were running in the committee was that we should not just rely on practice. It often works well, but there is a strong temptation in such sharp situations to go against practice, just as happened in 2013. We are tempted to do so today. Many who vote for our parties think that we should do this, and they have, as I have said, good reasons to think it in substance. That is why we pushed that it should be legislated on several parts of the budget process. Unfortunately, we did not bring the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, nor the Swedish Democrats on this, but it is our hope that we will eventually be able to get there. Practices are well-functioning and will be the foundation. Even if there is more legislation on this, there will still be practice. Practice is thus agreements between parties and between the government and parliament on what works, and these must be kept. Of course you can change them – of course. Everyone is free to think differently. But then I think you should also present an alternative. How do you want the system to work? How are we to avoid major holes in state finances, as we saw in the 1980s and 1990s, if we do not have a coherent budgetary process? I would also like to respond to what Olle Felten said earlier. I agree with some of the criticisms that Olle Felten, SD and even my alliance colleagues have made. The purpose of the coherent budgetary process is to present proposals relating to the budget before the new year or to treat them as closely to the budget as possible. They shall not be submitted in May or June. That is to stretch this very much. If governments, regardless of color, continue to behave in this way, practices will not last long. But it is not true that this is not prepared at all. What the report says, and as the majority – in this particular case, it is all parties except the SD, I believe – have supported, is that one requirement to be able to make a separate proposal is that it is clearly described in the budget what the proposal means. And it is, in fact, in this case. It is not as detailed as in a bill, but it is still detailed what it contains and how much money it is about. In this case, it is a little over 1 billion, with full effect. So that part has been fulfilled.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-231	Madam President, I would like Isn't it sometimes a strange society we live in? Society places great responsibility on the employer to ensure the employee's general permit. There are high demands on employers to pay when the employee is ill and when he needs rehabilitation. The interest that an employee can quickly receive care and improved rehabilitation and thus return to work or avoid the occurrence of sick leave is great with the employer and is part of the work environment responsibility. Whether it is too much or too little responsibility that we place on the employer can always be discussed. But won't it be inverted the world when you want to make it harder for the employer to take on a big responsibility by taking out a sick-time insurance policy for all employees? It wants to make it more difficult for both the employee and the company by taxing this benefit. We want employers to take responsibility, but when they do, they are punished. I believe that if we want employers to take responsibility, we must let them. Do not punish those who do so by taxing them favorably! What problems do we have in healthcare today? Is it that some people have health insurance? Or is it actually a long line of care? Or is it reduced accessibility in health care? I would argue that one problem we have is that care lines are increasing all the time. And accessibility is falling. Does the proposal in this proposal solve any of these problems? The answer is no. The solutions to these problems cannot be to reduce supply and to tax preferentially. My party, the Christian Democrats, believes that solutions are, among other things, to nationalise hospital care and to reintroduce queue billions. It's completely outside today's framework. And this is a shot that didn't have to be shot at all if you look at the problems of care. The Christian Democrats will work for the next government to remove preferential taxation and restore today's situation. The cost of sick leave increases annually, and efforts to break this trend should be welcome – even if they come from employers. Neither contributions to the Social Insurance Agency nor indefinite deadlines will stop the development. It is time to ensure that people do not get sick and let the companies that take great responsibility do so. If the government's proposal goes through, fewer companies will provide health care to the employees. Fewer employees will benefit from healthcare paid by the employer. Sick leave will increase. And public health will be further burdened. So what is proposed in this bill will lead to an even greater increase in queues. Rules on tax exemption for the benefit of health care were first introduced in 1946, as we heard earlier. The provisions were worded and incorporated in 1995. So it is not a new phenomenon. I can't really see any reason to change them right now. Anyone from the government parties will be happy to answer why this awakening is coming right now. About 650 000 people have health insurance, of which about 500 000 are paid by the employer. It is ordinary employees who will suffer a change. The most common is that it is smaller companies that take out health insurance. These companies are the ones who may normally have the most difficulty in taking the necessary responsibility. This proposal makes it even more difficult. We Christian Democrats see no reason for the change. If there is an alliance government after the next elections, I assume that this change will be removed and that it will not be taxed preferentially in the future.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-242	Madam President, I would like I have to admit, I made a serious miscalculation. I was waiting. I was all tense and thought, "When is it coming?" When is the pensioner's tax due? But it didn't come this time. Larry Söder also forgot to say that his party and the other three parties with which the Christian Democrats intend to form a government together will reduce taxes by 100 billion. You have your priorities, Larry Söder. The Moderates have their priorities, and the Liberals and the Centers have theirs. You're going to bring down 100 billion together. Do you think it will affect health care, so that health care can be distributed according to the principle that we jointly fund and benefit as needed? And what do you prefer: general health insurance where everyone is involved or a private insurance system, where companies or private individuals with capacity insure themselves? Which do you prefer? And do you think the major tax cuts will affect the content of care? I expect answers to my questions. But I also believe that in the next two minutes you will mention the word pensioner tax at least once.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-248	Madam President, I would like I do not want to make Peter Persson sad and mention, of course, that we want to abolish the pensioner's tax. I didn't think it was part of today's topic. I'm sorry I missed talking about it, Peter Persson. Peter Persson asked me what I think will happen next term if the alliance government rules and if tax cuts will affect health care. In fact, there is already an answer to that. During the eight years of the alliance government's rule, the healthcare queues decreased. And the availability of health care increased. In the three-and-a-half years that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have ruled, it has become exactly the opposite. Care queues have doubled, and accessibility has deteriorated. If you want good health care and good accessibility in health care in Sweden, then it is an alliance government that applies, no matter what taxation we have. It is a question of making the best use of resources and of giving the county councils or regions incentives to carry out their tasks. There we Christian Democrats may have a different proposal from the other alliance parties. We want to nationalise hospital care so that resources are used in the best possible way across the country instead of 24 different county councils having different responsibilities. I think that Peter Persson should think about whether it can be a solution that the Social Democrats can also think is good. We can agree that if we take in tax funds to cope with the medical task, they should be used in the best possible way. Does Peter Persson see an opportunity to raise taxes as much as possible without succeeding in the medical mission? Or when will you succeed? The queues are increasing all the time. I do not want to see them increase even further in the next parliamentary term.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-254	Madam President, I would like Every innovation, every new advance in medical technology development automatically generates a queue when we jointly and severally finance healthcare. Then there is no private demand because there is no capacity for care to make itself available at all. This is, of course, the main issue in the discussion about the right of deduction or the tax exemption for public or private health insurance. You didn't answer the question about which one you prefer. You have to have a very clear opinion. There are two reasons for promoting private health insurance. One of the motives is to open the health galleries or other that Nya Karolinska is an example of. The second motive is to generate revenue for private insurance companies. Doesn't Larry Söder think it's troubling that two thirds of the revenue from the premiums goes right into his pocket. Only half a billion is used in the operations of the 2.4 billion that you take in. Is this an effective way of using resources? It is about the same strange policy and efficiency that you have been engaged in for a while in this House. First, you voted yes five times for pensioner's tax. Then you say you want to remove it.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-258	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I tried to tell you about the rather high demands we are making on employers. They shall ensure that the holder of a job has a good general condition and that there is rehabilitation so that the employee can get back to work as soon as possible. According to the report we received in committee, it is small businessmen who choose to take out this health insurance. Many insurance policies are taken out by small companies so that their employees can receive the best possible care. This is done because you want to take the responsibility that we have put on them. Then I want to hear about how Peter Persson just 2018 finds out that this is a problem. It has existed since 1946 and has been in its present form since 1995. Why will there be a problem in 2018? We Christian Democrats have tried to see the problem raised in 2018, but we cannot see it. Instead, the focus should be on solving the problems of care. Queues are increasing dramatically. Accessibility is drastically reduced. You go after health insurance instead of solving the problems of health care. That's where you should find solutions, but the government is hand-flung. You have not had time to think about this in the Government Office. You have always thought about health insurance instead of health care.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-262	Madam President, I would like This is a debate that touches both health care and taxes. One place where you really use tax money in an incredibly strange way is Stockholm County Council. One person here mentioned some who had died in a nursing line. This applies precisely to Stockholm County Council. There, the right is ruling with the warm aid of the Swedish Democrats. In this discussion it is very clear that the Swedish democrats have sat down in the lap of the business community; it is quite obvious. Not only do you represent the small people anymore, but you also represent the business community. In the area of health care, priorities in health care should be based on three principles. According to the principle of human dignity, all people have equal value and the same right regardless of personal characteristics and functions in society. In accordance with the principle of need and solidarity, resources should be allocated as necessary. In accordance with the principle of cost-effectiveness, a reasonable relationship between costs and impacts in terms of improved health and improved quality of life should be sought when selecting different activities or measures. This is like the bottom plate. Then there is also a health law that says:'s jukast first'. The view of health care is an ideological issue. The growing influence of industry and insurance companies can be seen as problematic. You can also see it as a great revival wave where it is the private saviors who are going to save the health care. If Swedish business, insurance or health care companies are given ever greater influence, this will mean increased inequality. I would like to remind you that we in the Social Affairs Committee were on a trip to the United States. Then everyone we met – professors, multi-millionaires, you name it: Keep your tax system when it comes to health care! Don't go to an insurance system! Do you remember that? Today we have a tax system that benefits those who have a lot of benefits and often also benefits those who have a high income. We think it is reasonable that we have a fairer tax system and that we use the money for good healthcare for everyone. The health care should be so that you get health care as needed; those who are the most ill and have the most pain should come first in the queue. This insurance is between 600 000 and 700 000 people, and it is not a small group. The amount of preferential taxation depends on the cost of insurance. The proposal means that the employee should be taxed on the health or insurance premium, just like everything else on the side. The employer pays social security contributions on the benefit and can deduct it. This means increased tax revenue going to health care, which I think is quite reasonable. The Left Party believes that this is the way to give priority to equal care
i-LNN7R2NSAHtFiVXioYtC6z	I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-93bc1b3bc19fd0d3-273	Tax agreements are a phenomenon in tax policy that aims to create a good environment for trade to operate between countries and that economic activity can otherwise be managed, without creating situations whereby different actors evade taxation or become double-taxed when the activity is handled by the tax authorities of two different countries. It is therefore of central importance that Sweden as a nation has well-developed tax treaties with many countries. The closer our economic relations with a country, the more important it will be to have a well-developed and updated tax treaty with that country. Tax agreements have traditionally been based on a model agreement established by the OECD, the International Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, with the aim of creating similar conditions for bilateral tax agreements worldwide. Sweden was previously the world leader in this area, with a broad base of tax agreements with our most important trading partners around the world. In the mid-1990s we had well-updated agreements with a large number of countries, which gave our companies a good basis for a well-functioning trade. However, the Social Democratic Government under Göran Persson's leadership dismantled much of the work that made Sweden have such a well-developed catalogue of tax agreements. After that, most things have gone downhill. Sweden has fallen behind in that the issue of tax agreements has been down-prioed and that the agreements have therefore not been renegotiated in a sufficiently structured and well-thought-out manner. Above all, however, this has happened at too low a pace. Some changes have been made, but there is a very low level of activity around Sweden's tax agreements with other countries. Our main competitor countries have done the opposite and have accelerated their efforts to create good conditions for economic activity between their national players and their partners in other countries. Sweden has therefore fallen behind and is losing competitiveness. This is a very serious long-term development for a small, export-dependent country like Sweden. The problem was well highlighted in two reports from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish National Audit Office 2010. Madam President, I would like In order to address the problems created by globalisation, with multinational companies shifting profits from countries where they are earned to low-tax jurisdictions where you do not have to pay so much tax, the OECD 2015 established a project to create an international regulatory framework against international tax evasion and profit transfer, known as BEPS. It is a very important project that has led to a programme with 15 different action points. This includes a measure which is a development and complement to the traditional bilateral tax agreement. The measure is referred to as the Multilateral Instrument for modifying bilateral tax treaties. That is what this report is about. The multilateral instrument is therefore a means of amending a number of factors in the existing bilateral agreements. It is thus a smart solution to speed up the updating process of the old bilateral agreements in a number of different respects. It is designed so that all countries wishing to accede to it indicate which parts they want to use and which countries have a bilateral agreement with which to apply. When two countries have signed that they want to update the same terms and conditions in relation to each other, the update applies as if it were all included in the bilateral agreement. For many countries, including Sweden, agreed changes must then be incorporated into national law to enter into force in each country. Madam President, I would like The government will therefore have to present a bill containing the current changes for each bilateral tax agreement to be linked to the multilateral instrument. This will remedy some of the shortcomings of our tax treaties, but far from all. The government has chosen to have, as it is called, a moderate attitude towards which parts of the multilateral instrument to which Sweden belongs. In the bill, the government states that it believes there are strong reasons to adopt a moderate stance regarding the choice of which of the articles of the convention will have an impact on Swedish tax treaties. This indicates that there is a fairly large development potential in how Sweden can benefit from the various parts of the multilateral instrument. The moderate attitude also suggests that the criticism that Sweden has sharply reduced its work with tax treaties, under both S- and M-led governments, has been justified. It also suggests that this work needs to be substantially upgraded and strengthened, both in terms of quantity and quality. A good way to achieve an increased focus on the quality of tax agreements and numerically, could be for the government to provide an account of how the work on tax agreements is progressing. It should also provide an in-depth account of the effects of different contractual terms and the problems and shortcomings that remain to be resolved. The report should also include a positive analysis of the various parts of the multilateral instrument to which Sweden has acceded and the benefits we have missed and the negative effects we have avoided through the parts to which we have not acceded. Such a statement would help to raise the level of discussion in the Riksdag on such important tax agreements. It would also contribute to a better understanding of the impact of tax agreements on Swedish tax policy and other relevant policy areas. Madam President, I would like Alternatives for Sweden therefore believe that the government should step up work on updating and modernising those parts of Sweden's bilateral tax agreements that are not covered by the parts of the multilateral instrument that Sweden has chosen to apply. We believe that the government should develop and present an annual report on how the work on Swedish bilateral tax agreements is progressing. We also believe that the annual report should include a positive analysis of the parts of the multilateral instrument that Sweden has chosen to apply or not to apply.
