i-GQwrLzCYUAeBy2q7UBKxci	I left on Monday 12 November the proposal that Ul f Kristersson, the Moderates, be appointed Prime Minister. Ulf Kristersson has stated that he intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The proposal has now been tabled twice and will be examined at today's sitting.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-0	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party gave clear answers for the elections. We sought a mandate for an alliance government. At the same time, we said that we would not be part of a government that demanded SD's active support. Unfortunately, we did not get the clear mandate for an alliance government as we would have liked. An alliance government can now only be formed if there is anchoring above the block line. The Center Party is now doing exactly what we said before the elections after the elections. We will not be part of a government that requires active support from the Swedish Democrats, which also means that we cannot be part of the same budget base. Today's vote for the Center Party is not primarily about Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. It is ultimately about the position of power that they are prepared to give to the Swedish Democrats. In today's Prime Minister's vote, the Center Party will therefore vote against giving a nationalist and populist party a decisive and historically unique influence. Since the Alliance was founded 14 years ago, it is the first time that two parties on their own choose to try to form a government without the other two. I think this is a sad development. The alliance consists of four parties. Alliance policy can therefore only be pursued with four parties in agreement. Thus, an M-KD government is not, and can never be, an alliance government. The alliance we all own together. In today's difficult parliamentary situation, you can choose two parliamentary paths: either seek support across the traditional block line or become dependent on the Swedish Democrats. The proposal that is on the table today – a moderate and Christian-democratic minority government – means in practice doing the latter. There is a big difference between passive and active support. To vote for the same proposal and to take office when you are the larger constellation is one thing. The Center Party has no objection to that. The government proposal now on the table is a minor government constellation. Such a smaller government will depend on SD's active yes votes on each budget and on any other important political decision in parliament where the Alliance stands against the Red-Greens. It would be unique in Swedish political history if a nationalist and populist party were released to this position of power. This party has also made it clear that it will demand influence and guarantees over the government that it supports and ultimatums about reducing immigration in order to provide budget support. The fact that the Center Party does not want to negotiate or cooperate with the Swedish Democrats is due to political and value differences and that they are too large. The Swedish democrats have an authoritarian view of people and society, they see people from other countries as problems and threats and they put people against each other and choose solitude instead of cooperation. In addition, they are clear that they want to counteract the influence of liberals in Swedish politics. It is an ill-liberal political agenda which means that the Center Party cannot be part of the same government base. SD is very far removed from the Alliance's common policy and the open, inclusive and tolerant society that we work for. This is, as I said, a no to giving the Swedish Democrats a decisive influence, and it is a yes to continued efforts to form a strong government in which the four parties of the Alliance can hold together in talks across the bloc line. Once this vote is completed, my wish is that we four alliance parties can find their way back to each other and continue to explore possibilities for cross-block solutions where the Alliance can stick together. Between the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, we in this House are six parties representing 75 per cent of Swedish voters and 75 per cent of the mandates in this House. This is just over nine weeks after the election day, it is high time to start discussing substantive politics between the parties. This would be best for Sweden and the best way forward for a stable government with a liberal reform agenda. It would be an understatement if we couldn't get along.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-11	Mr President, I would like to The outcome of this year's elections meant a complicated parliamentary situation for Sweden and the political parties. Only now, just over two months after the elections, we have the opportunity to take a position on proposals for new Prime Minister. In this context, I would therefore like first of all to extend warm thanks to the President for his work in finding a new government founder at this point. Today we are taking a stand on the most natural prime minister candidate. A clear majority of the members of the Riksdag voted against Stefan Lövven's red-green government, and the Moderates are the largest party in the largest bloc that voted away the former government. The Alliance is the largest overall government option, and the policy of the Alliance has broad support in this House. There has been no alternative presented during the intense process of the last few months that could lead to broader support in the Riksdag. These circumstances make Ulf Kristersson the most logical candidate to lead the next government. It shouldn't be more complicated than that. This will be the thirteenth time that we meet in this House to appoint a prime minister since our new constitution was adopted. Never in these years has the bourgeoisie been as politically united as it is today. Ulf Kristersson has clearly declared that he wants to form a government based on the policy of the Alliance, operate in the spirit of the Alliance and work on the terms of the Alliance. Today's vote is therefore a political choice between the possibility of testing support for the Alliance's policy and refraining from doing so. For us Moderates, this choice is self-evident. Sweden needs more policemen, a stronger defence, a functioning integration and more accessible healthcare. Sweden needs to protect ownership and freedom of choice and to have better conditions for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We have a policy for that. We want to try this here in the Swedish Parliament. We are prepared to test the support for the joint alliance reforms that we, together with the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, have developed in government and opposition, in the near future and for decades of bourgeois cooperation. We are prepared to take responsibility for Sweden here today and the entire term of office, secure in ourselves, in the values we share with the other alliance parties and in the Alliance's common political platform, with humility before the parliamentary situation, with respect for our voters and with the best interests of Sweden in mind.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-16	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has been clear throughout the election movement: We want a government led by Stefan Löfven. The Moderates and Ulf Kristersson have lost in this election. The bourgeois alliance has not brought together the greatest support for the electorate. Ulf Kristersson now goes forward with wanting to form a government together with the Christian Democrats. It would be the most reactionary government Sweden has had in modern times – a government that would also be completely dependent on the Swedish Democrats to be able to rule. In the European countries where the extreme right has now gained real political power, it is because the right-wing parties are making themselves dependent on them to come to power themselves. We do not want to see this development in Sweden, and today we are preventing it by voting against Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-19	Mr President, I would like to When the Parliamentary Session was opened for more than six weeks, the bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, chose to remove Prime Minister Stefan Löfven – this despite the fact that the red-greens with their 144 mandates represent the largest government foundation. Having said that, however, I would like to emphasise that we share the President's conclusion of testing support for Ulf Kristersson in this House. As the leader of the formation that voted off the Prime Minister, it is reasonable for the House to take a position on his government proposal. Although Ulf Kristersson took the lead in dismissing the Prime Minister six weeks ago, today we are going to take a position on a government with far fewer mandates than the one he voted away. Kristersson M- and KD-government, if voted through, would become the most right-wing government Sweden has had. With his 92 mandates, he would be dependent on the active support of the Swedish democrats in every block-sharing vote. The Swedish Democrats are a nationalist and populist party which essentially rejects our view of an open and liberal society. This should not form the basis for a Swedish government. Already in the first budget vote, the support of the Swedish democrats will be absolutely crucial for Ulf Kristersson to be able to get his policy through. There is no indication that the possibility of using this opportunity for influence will be abandoned. There is a broad consensus among several of the parliamentary parties on which are Sweden's major challenges in the future. Instead of giving the Swedish Democrats decisive power and influence over the formation of government, we must break block politics and start working together. Although positions on the government issue have been blocked during the weeks after the elections, we see that in the talks that have taken place there are conditions for finding new government constellations that can agree on a policy that prioritises Sweden's development and aims to strengthen cohesion throughout the country. In today's vote, the Social Democrats will therefore vote against the President's proposal to appoint Ulf Kristersson Prime Minister. If the Riksdag still approves Ulf Kristersson as a government leader, the Social Democrats will constitute opposition to his government.
i-Lbq5zxhEhxGSxEH4k4ZbeP	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party today votes against Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. This is a crucial time. The government option on which Ulf Kristersson is put to the vote is a small, right-wing conservative government that demands the active support of the Swedish democrats. It is naive to think that such support would come for free. Rather, Kristersson's actions should be seen in the light of how several Moderates around Sweden enter active collaboration with SD, even though the Moderates promised something quite different before the election. There are very great risks of giving influence to a party like the Swedish Democrats. Most people in Sweden have voted for parties that promised not to. Our no is about an important political choice that Sweden is facing. Our no stands for the desire for Sweden to be governed by a government that protects democracy, protects the work of being a global leader in climate work and stands up for humanity, gender equality and fundamental values of an open society. It has become clear in the autumn that there is a moderate and Christian-democratic blindness to the threat of the external right, which is the very reason why many of the rest of us are voting 'no' today. Political agreements are defined not only by common 10-point lists but must also be about sharing values and having a common idea of what Sweden should be and where we should not go. These are the Conservatives who are running after the Swedish Democrats and away from liberalism. Rights which it has taken decades to enforce and which have begun to be seen as self-evident are now beginning to be questioned again. Democracy as we know it is in question. The state, the media and the judiciary would look different if the Swedish democrats gained influence. Sweden needs a government that is firmly rooted in democratic values – not a weak minority government that in all circumstances depends on the Swedish Democrats.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-28	Mr President, I would like to If today's vote had only been about Ulf Kristersson or the proposed government parties, we in the Liberals would have voted in favour and were also part of the government itself. But today's vote is about something more and bigger. All over the Western world, a right-wing nationalist wave is now emerging. It is a powerful counter-reaction to globalisation, European cooperation, free trade and openness – that is, the liberal ideas that have built our entire successful Western model of society. Liberalism has during the post-war period built the most successful societies humanity has seen. They are based on individual freedom, social welfare, the rule of law, the free economy, tolerance and equality. In these societies we have achieved the highest economic and material standard of living people have experienced. Right-wing nationalism has also been tested on a full scale in Europe in the 20th century. When these ideas have gradually grown over the decades and are allowed to dominate, the development has ended in the worst tragedies of European history. This right-wing nationalist movement includes Donald Trump, the decision on Brexit as well as Marine Le Pen, but also the authoritarian rulers who now have cowind in Poland, Hungary and unfortunately also in Austria and Italy. This movement also includes the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish democrats have reported that they want to become part of the government base today, and that they become it is a prerequisite for the government to be elected. The government now proposed is the wishful government of the SD. Mr President, I would like to The December agreement was also a mistake. It has given the Left Party, a party founded in Communism, too much influence. That agreement shall not be repeated. In a democracy, it is the voters who determine the composition of Parliament. If the Alliance had become larger than the red-greens, we could have taken up, because we had been the largest bloc, but it is a mathematically incontrovertible fact that 144 is more than 143. Even if the Alliance had been the largest bloc, the votes of the Swedish Democrats would probably have been required for the Alliance to take office in government. But that would have been another thing, for once the admission had taken place, the Alliance had not been dependent on SD's 'yes' votes in every single important vote every Wednesday and Thursday for four years. I trust Ulf Kristersson's expressed willingness not to negotiate with SD. It's just that when this line is to be completed, the government will very quickly experience that SD's support will not be free. Why would it be? The Left Party has had its blackmail role for four years, with good results from their starting point. What is the reason to believe that the Swedish Democrats, full of confidence and contempt for our liberal model of society, would not try to do the same? Either this government will be lured, tempted or forced to negotiate after all, or it will be faced with repeated huge losses of votes – time and time again and so much that the authority of the government will very quickly be eroded to the point where its power of action disappears. Sweden will face constant threats of government crises and new elections. It is not at all the stability that would be needed to carry out major reforms in broad consensus in the face of, for example, an impending recession. The SD would quickly become the hub around which all policies are circulating and what determines whether the proposals are approved or rejected in committees and in chambers, with constant ultimatums and crises. Mr President, I would like to I admit, this is a heavy day. It is hard to vote against an alliance colleague. The Liberals and I have been subjected to a formidable campaign of hatred and incitement in recent weeks – not from the moderate party leadership but from the Swedish right's tail. During my 25 years in politics, I have not experienced anything like this. Perhaps in the short term it will have a negative effect on confidence figures both for me and for my party. But we stand up for what we promised in the election campaign, and I want to believe that these are things that create confidence in the long term. We wanted an alliance government but not at SD's mercy. I was clear in all the interviews and in all the debates: if the Alliance becomes smaller than the Red-Green, cross-block cooperation is required. In this situation, after what has now happened, to rule only with SD in the government base was out of the question. Anyone who claims to be in violation of what we have said cannot have listened. The Moderate leadership, on the other hand, repeatedly assured that there was no need for a narrower right-wing government. If today's proposal falls, I will recommend to the President that he try to form a government that is block-crossing and that excludes SD and V from a permanent role of blackmail. The alliance in cooperation with at least one party on the other side of the block border is the next step that should now be tested. Mr President, I would like to I would ask you to reject this proposal, not because we Liberals are against Ulf Kristersson, but because we are against the position of power that the SD would be given.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-43	Mr President, I would like to I think that the speeches we have heard at the outset say quite a lot about the political situation in this country. It is a prime minister vote that we are facing here, but it is not about who should be prime minister but about who should have and who should not have influence over politics. I am sorry to tell you this, but it is neither Ulf Kristersson nor any other individual Member of this House, Mr President, who gives any individual party influence. It is the voters who give parties influence.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-45	Over 1 million people voted for the Swedish Democrats in the elections two months ago. There are over 1 million people in Sweden who want the Swedish Democrats to have influence. I'm terribly sorry that your old simplified block system is no longer working. We had a situation where the Moderates and the Social Democrats fought a little about the taxes for a few weeks in the election movement, and then won the Sossos. It's not like that anymore. We have new lines of conflict in politics. These are new block constellations that are emerging. Sweden is still unique in a European perspective, but we are heading in a reasonable direction where we are becoming more like other countries in Europe. Look at Denmark! Look at Norway! Look at Finland! There, parties similar to the Swedish Democrats have influence. Not infrequently, this happens together and in contexts similar to what we are considering today – conservative cooperation. Sweden is unique, but not for long. That is my conviction. Mr President, I would like to It has been over two months since the elections, and we still do not have a new government in place. I would like to say that it is a huge understatement to those parties in this House that have locked themselves in excessive positions and unreasonable principles that make constructive discussions and dialogue impossible. Unlike what we have heard here before, I have no ambition to act as a blackmailer. My party and I are well aware that we have a little more than 18% of the voters behind us, and we do not expect greater support than support that is proportionate to the size of us. We have made no unreasonable demands. We have made a demand before this vote: Give us guarantees that the policy that will be pursued with Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister of Sweden in the right direction, and show us how it will be done! Then we can take a stand on it, and likely we will be able to buy it. We expect concessions in proportion to how big we are. That is what I have said. I believe that this is an extremely pragmatic approach. No block has its own majority. No party has its own majority. In fact, the government option now on the table, where the Moderates and Christian Democrats form a coalition government with the support of the Swedish Democrats, is a constellation with 154 mandates, unlike the 144 mandates of the Red-Greens or the 143 mandates of the so-called Alliance. It is, therefore, a major cooperative constellation in the sense that it could now be regarded as such. I would say, Mr President, that my parliamentary group has very strong reasons for voting 'no' today. This is because we have not nearly reached the goal of obtaining the guarantees we have demanded. It is about the fact that we have not almost come into contact with each other at party leadership level, as the voters expect us to do. When the voters have said their thing and we have had an election result, it is reasonable for us to talk to each other. You have done so; for over two months you have been talking to each other. You have also been very clear that there is a party that you do not intend to talk to under any circumstances. I am sorry to have to say this, but it is a level of sand in the way you have behaved in the other parties in the months that have passed since the elections. The voters do not want this, and the voter's verdict on how you deal with the outcome of the elections and the parliamentary situation will be harsh. There is also reason to vote in favour of Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister with the party composition that has now been put on the table. This is linked to the fact that we see a new political landscape emerging in Sweden, as in the rest of the Western world. There old block constellations split up. There we see – and this is confirmed today – the Center Party and the Liberals, the two extremely liberal parties in the Swedish Parliament, naturally attract the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Left Party. That is also where they actually belong, based on the new political lines of conflict. And we see the Moderates and Christian Democrats approaching a Conservative Association in the Riksdag. It is quite natural and so it should be. That's how I want it. The M, SD, KD constellation needs an additional 21 mandates for its own majority in this House. Mr President, I would like to When we stand here in four years' time, or perhaps earlier, I shall have done everything I can to ensure that that constellation has its 175 seats in this Assembly, so that we can drive this country in a conservative, reasonable direction of cohesion and security instead of the wild West that the left-wing liberal parties have formed. We will therefore vote in favour of Ulf Kristersson today.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-60	Mr President, I would like to It has now been 66 days since the elections. For more than two months, the parties have been talking. We've talked to each other and talked internally in our parties. We have spoken privately and in groups with the media and with the President. I do not think that any Member of this House feels that the outcome of the elections was exactly as they wished. The situation became just as difficult as many predicted. But we now have the election result that the Swedish people have given us. Given the information given during the last few months' talks, there are in reality only two possible ways for Sweden to have a new government. One way is a government built on the Social Democrats, which draws support from the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. Such a government also needs to be tolerated by the Left Party in order to take office. The other way is a government built on the Alliance's policy, which includes either one, two, three or four alliance parties, and it is one such government that we are today trying to support. With all due respect for the difficulty of the decision, the Center Party and the Liberals need to choose which option they prefer. Mr President, I would like to The newly elected Parliament voted on 25 September on confidence in Stefan Lövven's government. A large majority of the Members of this House then voted against the Löfven. A broad majority in this House believes that the policy of the Social Democrats has been unsuccessful and that Sweden needs a new political direction. The list of failures of the Social Democrats can be long, too long to be described here and now. However, I would like to give some examples, because the vote today is not about us, it is not about any individual party in this House. It is about all the people who today do not receive the care, care, assistance and security they need. As I said, the list is long, but I would like to start by mentioning that the care queues have doubled. Nearly 120 000 Swedes have now had to wait illegally for a long time to get the care they need. LSS has failed. Even small children in need of support have received their personal assistance either withdrawn or severely reduced. The lack of retirement homes is excruciating. If we do not solve this, old age will be tantamount to house arrest in Sweden, and for many older people this is already the case today. The police are in deep and severe crisis. Whole neighborhoods are effectively controlled by criminal gangs. Car fires and shootings, often fatal, are so common today that they hardly give any notice. That is why we Christian Democrats and a further 182 Members of this House voted out Stefan Löfven on 25 September. We did this because we believed that another policy was possible, a policy that shortens the queues in healthcare, that restores LSS and that treats our elderly with the respect they deserve, a policy that gives Swedish policemen both more colleagues and better opportunities to curb the escalating violence – a policy that restores the promise of a welfare one can trust. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' line on the government issue is to be trusted, not only in an electoral movement but since the day the December agreement fell. We are moving forward with our policy, alliance policy. We are voting in favour of this policy and we are also prepared to take responsibility for implementing it. We will never back off our own policy based on how others vote. Such action would rightly jeopardise the confidence of voters not only in us but in politics as a tool. We are safe in our values. If at some stage a government is faced with political demands that are incompatible with these values that we stand for, the government must seek other solutions, other paths with other parties in this House. If such solutions cannot be found, Parliament must seek a new government. No one can claim that the situation is simple. But the Swedish parliament must also cope with what is difficult, able to face society's problems. The Alliance has the policy of the social problems we are seeing today. That is why, Mr President, I have informed Ulf Kristersson that the Christian Democrats are prepared to join a government that runs the policy of the Alliance on the terms of the Alliance. You Members of Parliament who intend to vote green today, or yellow: this is not easy. It's hard, but it's brave and it's true. Therefore, Mr President, today we Christian Democrats are voting in favour of Ulf Kristersson and yes to the Alliance's policy, which we believe is the best for Sweden.
i-FQaWtdX2PzT9JJTiNanXhc	Vote yes if you wish to approve the proposal to appoint Ulf Kristersson Prime Minister.
i-7429fK1zQ89cUn9dbyoe65	If at least 175 of the members of the Riksdag vote no, the Riksdag has rejected the proposal. Otherwise, it has been approved.
i-Rs21PVuF7FuQc4yBcdqanw	Madam President, I would like After the Constitutional Committee, through its right of initiative, called for a new review of EU work in Parliament, a parliamentary committee was appointed by the Riksdag Board in June 2016. A year and a half later, in February 2018, the report was submitted to the Riksdag Board. The subject we are dealing with today is the result of the relatively few proposals that emerged from that committee. We Swedish democrats are strongly critical of the developments that are taking place in the EU, where federalist ambitions increasingly minimise the rightful self-determination of nation states in a number of areas. It is a development that absolutely must be stopped. As more policy areas and thus more political decisions move from Sweden to Brussels, we are gaining less and less influence over important issues for our country. The Swedish Democrats have therefore pursued a clear line in the said parliamentary committee, as this is part of the whole process that leads to more federalism, which requires more transparency. In this work we focused on four areas. Firstly, we wanted more transparency throughout the process. Secondly, we wanted more transparency and influence for the Swedish Parliament. Thirdly, we wanted to see greater demands on the government in the exchange of information with the Swedish parliament, and fourthly, we wanted constitutional practice to be regulated by law. On this basis, we put forward a series of proposals on changes to Parliament's work on EU issues. Among other things, we proposed that the meetings of the EU Board should be open to the public, that the documents of the committees should be more public than they are today, and that the stenographic records of the meetings of the Board should be made available. We also proposed more EU debates in this House and more televised meetings of the EU Board. All this we proposed in order to make the process more transparent and to give the individual citizen transparency. We also proposed stricter requirements for the documents that the Government presents to Parliament for decisions in the EU, and we thought that Parliament's committees could give the government so-called letter mandates, thus very precise directives on what the government can do in the decision-making process. In this way, Parliament would be assured to maintain control over the entire information process. However, the Committee chose not to comply with our proposals, and the proposal now before Parliament represents extremely marginal changes in Parliament's EU work. We very much regret this. In the present report, we have reserved ourselves in the three areas in which we believe that the majority of the committees makes the four principles which we had as our starting point and which I have mentioned before more difficult. Firstly, we believe that it is wrong to abolish the mandatory review of Green and White Papers in order to allow each committee to make an assessment of whether or not a document should be examined. Green and White Papers are important elements in the EU's preparation process for future possible EU legislation. Although, in most cases, the committees are likely to examine the books, we believe that an obligatory nevertheless contributes to greater transparency and dissemination of information, and also at an early stage. The risk of discretionary assessment of which material is to be examined is also reduced. That is why we want to maintain the mandatory review of green and white books. Secondly, unlike the majority of committees, we are very much in favour of an increased element of proportionality assessments in relation to subsidiarity assessments. We believe that it is important for national parliaments to have the opportunity to express their views fully on a proposed measure. In accordance with the practice laid down by the Constitutional Committee, the committees may also carry out a proportionality test in the context of the subsidiarity review, i.e. examine whether the proposals restrict the national legislative space to an excessive extent. We want to uphold this practice and believe that it should be clarified in the provision on parliamentary subsidiarity. We think it is important that the very constitutional practice that prevails is also regulated by law. Furthermore, we want to go one step further and see the development of this practice so that proportionality assessments are always made in the context of subsidiarity tests. We also believe that the government should be bound by the views expressed by the Riksdag in its reasoned opinions in the subsidiarity trials. This is dismissed by the majority of committees by the fact that reasoned opinions are addressed to the EU institutions and not to the government. Of course it is, but we still think it is reasonable that the government should strictly relate to what Parliament takes a position on. Reasoned opinions are an important element here. Thirdly, we propose a strengthened regulatory framework for consultation between the Government and the Parliament in accordance with the practice developed in the Constitutional Committee. This concerns in particular the question of the obligation to consult at so-called informal meetings of the European Council and at ministerial meetings. The fact that part of a Council meeting or a ministerial meeting is placed, for example, in an informal lunch, as is usual, should not mean a departure from the obligation to consult. It is of the utmost importance that the regulation on the obligation to consult at informal Councils is sharp, not least because the Constitutional Committee has examined and criticised on a number of occasions that the government deviates from the Swedish line at informal meetings. If the regulations are unclear, there is an obvious risk of an unwanted shift of power from the Riksdag to the Government. There is also a democratic dilemma in reducing the transparency of decision-making. Our view is that consultation obligations should always prevail in these contexts. Madam President, I would like I support all three reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but for time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservations 2 and 3.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-97	Madam President, I would like We are now debating KU's 2018 report 19:KU7 EU work in Parliament. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I am not new to Parliament but new as a member of the Constitutional Committee, and this is my first debate within the framework of this committee. That is why it is extremely gratifying to be able to talk in my first KU debate about something that is close to my heart, namely the European Union and Sweden's place in the European Community. In spring 2016, following a committee initiative from the KU, the Riksdag decided that a committee should be given the task of analysing and evaluating Parliament's work on EU issues in order to make an assessment of whether the work is carried out in an appropriate manner and whether the working arrangements give us the best conditions for fulfilling our tasks related to the EU. Madam President, I would like Assessing and analysing working methods and working methods is essential, whether in the EU or in any other area. The year after the 1994 referendum, Sweden stepped into the European Union and we can see that Sweden and the EU looked very different in 1995 from today. Europe has changed. The development of the internal market and the four freedoms, the single currency, the enlargement of the Union to include 28 Member States – soon 27, when the UK leaves it – the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty and the fact that the EU is today a stronger and more important player on the international stage mean that the EU's role for us in Sweden has not diminished during this time, but is even more important today and for the future. However, if we leave the content of the policy to one side and instead focus on the KU report, which is the result of the European Parliamentary Committee, it is rather the forms of European work that we are going to discuss here. The Committee was given the task of reviewing whether the current forms and provisions are appropriate for the practical nature of Parliament's work or whether there is a desire to improve and develop certain elements. At the beginning of this year, the Committee submitted the report to Parliament. As stated in the text, the Committee notes that Parliament's working arrangements on EU issues are essentially adequate. In other words, it is meant that the way in which Parliament deals with EU issues today is, on the whole, working well. Each Member State's parliament chooses its own way of working to debate and anchor the political decisions that will then proceed to Brussels, and the Swedish model is characterized, in my opinion and experience of the Swedish Parliament's EU work, by a clear and mutual relationship between the parliament and government regarding consultation and a proactive attitude from the committees to be included early in the work of setting out a Swedish position. While Sweden has been a member of the EU, the EU work of national parliaments has intensified and more and more become an everyday part of the work. Of course, in such a situation, when EU work takes more time, it may arise that one chooses to take shortcuts to reduce the workload, and the fear is that democracy is reduced when it is given less time to process important issues. Madam President, I would like In my view, this is not the case with regard to Parliament's work. We stand by the principle that Parliament should be involved all the way. When I meet parliamentarians from other Member States in different EU contexts, it is clear that we in Sweden are firmly committed to the principle that national parliaments should have influence and governance. After all, it is we Members of Parliament who, according to the principle of popular sovereignty, are ultimately responsible for and decide when and what power is to be transferred from Parliament to the EU. Our approach, which I believe goes beyond party boundaries in Parliament, is therefore something we should stick to. This means increased legitimacy for Sweden's place in the EU vis-à-vis voters, and it creates transparency and participation among us MPs. Although we may have different views on the content of the policy to be pursued by the European Union, I hope that we agree that working arrangements give us good opportunities in Parliament to influence the Union. That is not to say that nothing can get better. The report contains a number of proposals for changes, which involve changes to both the Riksdag regime and the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. Let me say that the proposals are not revolutionary in that dramatic changes are taking place for the outsider. Even for members of the Riksdag, everyday life will not be significantly affected. As is well known, the report contains reservations from the Swedish Democrats. Let me just briefly outline some of our positions. Several of the proposals mean an increased freedom of action for Parliament and an increased opportunity for members to take part in the current EU debate. It is freedom of action in the form that Parliament itself decides whether it intends to deal with green and white papers, the possibility of examining other EU documents on its own initiative and strengthened the opportunity for us Members to ask for the floor on the basis of a subsidiarity test when submitting a complaint to the House, which is an important control function for Parliament and its Members. The current proportionality test in relation to subsidiarity testing is important to assess the proportionality of the impact of different proposals. However, we need to remember that although we are keen to discuss substance at an early stage, subsidiarity is appropriate for determining whether action is best taken at EU or Member State level.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-111	Madam President, I would like The European Union is becoming an increasingly extensive and relevant part of our everyday lives, not only in this House but also outside the walls of the Parliament House. There are more things today than perhaps ten to twenty years ago that are affected by European cooperation, and this is very good in many parts. The work of the Riksdag must follow the developments that are taking place. The European Union should have an important responsibility for the things where we will work together but no responsibility for the things that we do best at national level. The report before the House today is a step in the right direction, in which we choose to give priority to our efforts to improve the European Union and the work of Parliament with the European Union. We have a broad consensus in this House and in the Constitutional Committee on many of these issues. I am therefore not going to tire the House out by repeating much of what Erik Ezelius said, but I would like to add a few more things. As regards, for example, the fact that reasoned opinions would be binding on the government, I think we are tying rice to our own backs. The reason is that we have a system in which the EU Board consults with the Government and clarifies what is the Swedish position. A majority in this House is also a majority in the EU Board, and a majority in this House will be reflected in the EU Board. However, a chamber decision in the form of a reasoned opinion cannot in any way be amended or adjusted. Not for nothing, it is not necessarily the case that a reasoned opinion from Sweden's Parliament is endorsed by a lot of other parliaments around Europe, and that is why we will still have to deal with the issue in a more material context in the process in the future. If the Riksdag then has a chamber decision that says that we do not want to take the matter and that we have given a reasoned opinion in which we believe that the EU should not work on the matter at all, Parliament's and Sweden's ability to deal with the issue in the European Union is restricted, because we have a chamber decision that should be unanimous. It cannot be reviewed by the EU Board and not by the government; it is only the House that can review a chamber decision. I therefore believe that if we go that way, we will tie rice to our own backs. Having said that, this does not mean that we should only surrender if, at some point, we have given the Commission a reasoned opinion and said that it is an issue that we do not think the European Union should concern itself with. There we have extensive opportunities to show in the regular processes what the Swedish position is. As long as it is the Swedish position, it should also be Sweden's position in Brussels or wherever it is decided to meet. Moreover, we in this House, in the European Council and in all other parts are the result of the democratic elections that we have every four years. This may involve different views on European issues, and I therefore believe that it would be to tie rice to one's own back and restrict our options for action to choose to say that a reasoned opinion in this House should be binding on the government. With this addition, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-119	Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating, the KU7 EU work in Parliament, is a typical example of how the KU works. We're not raising our voice. We can even sound a little dry in our arguments. However, we have the task of trying to ensure that we get the rules of the game that we can all broadly support. Then we can work together based on them. An investigation has been working on this since June 2016, and it was completed in February 2018. The investigation has analysed how the Riksdag should work with EU issues. I was involved for a while in the investigation and got an insight into it. Without raising our voices and without getting more involved with emotional life, we made sure that we could best organise the work. We reached broad agreement on the following: The proposed changes mean that Parliament will no longer have to deal with Green and White Papers submitted to Parliament by the Commission. Proposals for legislative acts, and not only draft legislative acts, shall be exempt from the parliamentary scrutiny procedure. Minutes from a committee stating that a draft legislative act does not conflict with the principle of subsidiarity shall be placed on the agenda of a meeting of the Parliament. A provision is introduced for a delegation to the Europol Joint Parliamentary Control Group. This is what we came up with. These aren't big changes. We evaluated what we had done for several years and have adapted to what could be a better approach towards the European Union. As I said, we agree on this, except for the Swedish Democrats. I read their reservation, which is actually based on the fact that they are no friends of EU cooperation.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-124	Madam President, I would like On the Liberal side, we support the report on the European Union's work in Parliament as a whole. However, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the importance of this work working, developing and strengthening. With EU membership and, in principle, all the years after, opponents of the EU have stubbornly argued that the EU itself represents a democratic deficit. We also heard it in the speech by the Member of the Swedish Democrats a little while ago. We believe that our Parliament, our Parliament, would have had less influence and less transparency. But, Madam President, a number of studies show that it is exactly the opposite. We can see that foreign policy is the task of the government and that domestic policy is, in many respects, the task of the day. What, then, has happened? Firstly, we note that Parliament has access to much more information on foreign policy today than was the case before EU entry. Secondly, the day has been given additional opportunities to influence foreign policy through EU entry and today can change the government's proposals for positions. Thirdly, the day's possibility of accountability has not changed in any direct constitutional way. However, change has taken place in practice by the fact that the matter committees can have a powerful influence on the government's positions, and this has been done in particular by allowing the EU Board itself, thanks to increased information and transparency, to more easily criticise the government. The majority of this House has thus gained power over the positions of the government. It can therefore be said that the closed borders and decisions of the nationalists in closed rooms are not the way. It is exactly the opposite: Power is being moved to the elected open room. Madam President, I would like Despite the myth of the democratic deficit, Parliament has not, as was expected, reduced its influence on foreign policy. We have shown that it is just worth it: Parliament today has more to say about. In parallel with the fact that the Riksdag has delegated certain parts of the legislative power to the Government, the Riksdag has gained far more influence over foreign policy. It can be said that Parliament and government through EU membership have exchanged certain functions with each other. It is good and in accordance with my liberal basic view that power should lie where power belongs: in the elected institutions in interaction with the executive, at the right level, in the right thing issues and at the right time. That is why this analysis and the report on which we are going to decide today are important. These are changes that have been made on behalf of the President, and they have been useful in further strengthening transparency and clarifying the influence of the elected parliament – the Parliament. Areas that have traditionally been government tasks are increasingly opened up to Parliament and vice versa. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Liberals, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-134	Madam President, I would like With this report, Parliament makes a decision that many have been waiting for a long time – for many years. The TV licence will be amended and a new public service fee will be introduced covering everyone over 18 years of age with an income. There has been a debate on this for many years. Some have criticized the license for its design, and others have done so because they do not want to be involved in paying for public service. Others have defended the old system and said that changes would undermine independence. At the same time, Madam President, technological developments have spoken clearly: it was time for change. Now we are introducing a new, good proposal that has very broad support in the Swedish Parliament. It is symbolically important that there is broad support in the Swedish Parliament for the changes we are now making. It is also a symbolic change that we are not expected to pay for owning a particular type of device or for watching a certain type of program or channel. No, now we pay together to ensure that there is and is produced an independent, reviewing public service. It may sound like a small difference – a difference in detail. But it is basically a question of us not paying for licences now so that we ourselves can consume or own something. Now, instead of paying together, there will be an independent public service in the media in the country with the task of ensuring impartiality and objectivity. Madam President, I would like One of the objections that has been heard from those who wanted to preserve the old model has been that they are concerned about independence. That is an important objection to be taken very seriously. Perhaps we are sometimes exaggerating the independence that exists in the model that we are now leaving. It could have been that we politicians would have managed more if we had just wanted to, because the old system is not clockless of political opportunities to change. But we have not wanted to go in and direct public service, and that is why we have also abstained from this opportunity. Now, on the other hand, further steps are being taken to guarantee independence. First of all, the length of permit periods is regulated to eight years. It is good in itself, but it gets even better with the fact that the periods should go out of step with the Riksdag. A new period will start in January of the same year as ordinary – perhaps one should add – parliamentary elections. Thus, changes in the power conditions in the Riksdag cannot directly affect the governance of the broadcasters' mandates and the allocation of funds. In order to phase in the new periods, adjustments need to be made. A majority in the committee, as well as the investigation on which the proposal is based, want the first period to be six years and not ten years, as the government proposed. Given the rapid technological development now taking place in the medium term, it would be unreasonable to have as long a period as ten years. To further strengthen independence, the member of parliament will now not be able to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Swedish Radio Administration Foundation, Swedish Television and Education Radio. That too is an important and good reform. Madam President, I would like I and the Liberals think we should take one more step. It may sound something technical, but in practice it can be quite important where things are regulated and who is in charge of change. Now that we are introducing a new system of funding, it also means introducing a new technology for how money is to be transferred from the payments to the payment to the public service. The National Debt Office and the National Board of Trade are given important roles in this. I think that this should be regulated in legislation because it is then much more difficult to make changes to it. Now the proposal is that it should be regulated in a regulation, which means that a government either because it wants to or because it is forced to do so by other forces can make changes to the regulation, and I think that is unfortunate. A regulation is much easier for a government to make changes in. If it had been legislation instead, this system would have been more stable. I therefore support the Liberals' reservation in this report. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the importance of public service has increased. In an increasingly polarised social climate, it is crucial for democracy that we have functioning media and that there are media that have the task of providing impartiality and objectivity. We see in countries close to us that developments are moving in a direction that I find very worrying and that the political leadership there is trying to take power over public service and steer the content in a certain direction. I see that there are forces that want to push forward those positions in more and more countries in Europe, and I find that very worrying. The fact that we are now changing the financing system and also further strengthening the independence of public services is a very important issue for democracy in the long term. I am pleased that large parts of the committee are doing this together and that we have a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament for the changes we are making. It is a win in itself that we have broad agreements on the rules of the game for public service. With this, Madam President, as I said, I am only in favour of the reservation that the Liberals have in the report.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-147	Madam President, I would like It takes an international outlook to understand the general concern about what is happening with public service. Let me give you a few examples. Just a month ago, the Danish right-wing government decided to cut Denmark's Radio's funding by 20%. The savings requirement originally comes from the Swedish Democrats' sister party Dansk Folkepartiet, who had called for an even higher savings rate of as much as 25 per cent. More than 400 employees have been allowed to go, Culture Editor Tine Smedegaard Andersen has been allowed to go and the most difficult cuts have covered the fields of culture and sport. The narrowing of the mandate and the fact that public services in limited areas will compete with commercial media are terms that can actually be recognized from the general Swedish public service debate. But regardless of how you formulate yourself, this is a policy that primarily benefits the profit-making media companies. Reductions in the range of programmes in the field of culture, sport and sport in the context of public services will mainly affect the ability of economically weaker citizens to benefit from a wider, qualitative and independent range of programmes. I would like to mention another example, and that is the Netherlands. It discusses substantial cuts in funding, while emphasising the political will to interfere with the programme's activities. It all went so far that the managers of the public service companies openly published a letter to the government about the repeated attempts to exert direct and indirect influence over the programmes. The sharp criticism, of course, was about independence that is being eroded. A third example is our neighbour Finland. In fact, there is a constitutionally protected public service, but in recent years it has not been possible to protect the YLE tax. Short-term political interests have come to affect the economic conditions, and since the 2017 amendment, politicians are now deciding the public service strategy. Madam President, I would like All these examples go against the three principles that have laid the foundation for public service activities in Sweden since the first radio broadcast in 1925. The State shall guarantee the underlying infrastructure by establishing, owning and operating the network necessary for radio and television broadcasting. The programme activities shall be carried out by independent broadcasters subject to the requirements of objectivity and impartiality in the selection of programmes to be broadcast. The activities of broadcasters shall be financed by the users themselves and not by the State directly or through commercial revenues. But something is happening, Madam President. There are rapid changes in the global media landscape that we have now actually received. Globalisation and digitalisation jeopardise commercial media business models because advertising money follows online giants, which has also been shown to affect quality journalism. Another issue of great importance is the intake of information. The processing of user data used to predict what information we want has also come to affect what information we actually receive. The fact that flows become personal and one-sided risks reducing the breadth of the information we actually receive. When we search for information on the global search engines, many of us still believe that we have obtained an unfiltered picture of reality while in fact we have had a specific outcome. The danger is that we increasingly share the same reality picture of facts and events. Instead, we see the development of disinformation, knowledge gaps and polarisation. Therefore, access to a broad and independent programme content is also a question of democracy. Madam President, I would like The global competitive media market has contributed to significant structural changes in the Swedish media landscape as well. Fewer and fewer people use traditional media and concentrate their daily intake on social media. The linear viewing of television has decreased over time, and fewer and fewer people are using fixed television in the household. In view of the fact that the licence is based on the holding of a television in the household, there has for a long time been a need to investigate both the independence and the financing model. Therefore, in December 2016, the Parliamentary Public Service Committee was appointed with the representation of all parties in the Riksdag. The original assignment was to propose the necessary changes to create good conditions for the activities of the broadcasters Sveriges Radio AB, Sveriges Television AB and Sveriges Utbildningsradio AB and to make proposals for a long-term, sustainable and solidarity-based financing system. In October 2017, the Committee submitted its interim report, which is the background to the Government proposal and today's debate. What we are now proposing, Madam President, is a new law on the financing of public broadcasting. This means that the previous license will be replaced by a public service fee. It shall be individual and shall be paid by all persons who have reached the age of 18 and who have a taxable income. The financing model is solidarity-based, which means that the amount you pay is based on your income level. The starting point of the proposal is that broadcasters SR, SVT and UR should have financial conditions to develop independent activities with high legitimacy, quality and relevance in the modern media landscape. This requires a long-term stable financing system, which is perceived as legitimate and which safeguards independence. The financing model will also phase out Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB in January 2019, and the responsibility to collect the fee will be imposed on the Swedish Tax Agency. The report also proposes strengthening independence. It was the new financing model combined with long broadcasting permits that together would strengthen independence. We Social Democrats advocate long broadcasting permits, much longer than the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals now join the Swedish Democrats in the committee. We believe, like the referrals from Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and UR, that longer permit periods strengthen independence. We also believe that, from 2020 onwards, a six-year broadcasting permit does not sufficiently mark us entering a new funding system. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, although they have participated in the parliamentary inquiry and have signed the final report, they are calling for the whole proposal to be rejected. The fact that you're leaving today worries me. What it means for budgetary cooperation for those who want to form a government now is a matter of concern. It's still a big question mark for me. Perhaps we will get some clarification in the speech later. Madam President, I would like Finally, in my view, it is a declaration of strength that all parties have participated in the parliamentary inquiry and that all parties except the Swedish Democrats have been able to compromise on the most important issues. With this report, Sweden is making a departure from many of the other European countries by safeguarding the independence of public service, which is now to be given a strong and new financing model. Having said that, I agree with the proposal in the report. However, I call for greater independence than is apparent. That's why I'm in favour of reservation 2.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-168	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4, 5, 10, 11 and 12. If public services, or publicly owned and funded media, be or not, there is a scale of opinion. It ranges from the fact that public service should be the universal offer for media consumers, i.e. that commercial television and radio channels should not be allowed, to the need for public service provision, i.e. that the provision of media should be based entirely on commercial revenue funding. Within the Moderates there is no support for the former view. I can almost take poison on that. But there are votes for the latter option, although the majority see the value of public service through its journalistic work contributing to a broad range. It refers to the programme content, a reflection of the conditions throughout the country and the diversity of the population. It is particularly necessary at a time of misinformation, fake news and security policy concerns. Precisely the scope, content, independence and governance had also been the correct and natural first attempt to debate the future design of public services in this House today. Then there could be a debate on how it should be financed. The government has chosen to do the opposite, to throw in the yeast after the dough. It has met with justified criticism from several quarters, which we Moderates have also identified. A comprehensive process for both financing and public service regulation would have been desirable. But there has not been a majority in favour of this position. The Moderates are a responsible party, and public service is far too important for us to cross our arms and not be a contributing party to influence. However, we look forward to the forthcoming bill which addresses what is not being addressed today, that is to say, what is beyond funding. Madam President, I would like Now I'm moving on to the matter. The funding of public service through the radio and television fee has long been under discussion. The model faces many and major challenges. For the Moderates, the following positions have been important in this process: 中 New technological development offers new opportunities and places new demands. 中 Public service should focus on its core business. 中 Competition in the media market must be safeguarded. The economy should be tight, and sponsorship needs to be reduced. The review needs to be strengthened, particularly in terms of objectivity and impartiality. A media ethics test needs to be introduced. I relied on Christer Nylander, chairman of the Committee on Culture, to describe the details of the matter. Of course, I was right about that. What I will therefore refer to in my speech are the reservations of the Moderates in this report. Madam President, I would like After the discussions, there is a majority for what the Alliance and the Moderates have said about the duration of the transmission periods. The investigation has suggested that the transmission periods should be six years initially and then eight years. The Government stated in its proposal that the first transmission period should be ten years. The Moderates have not shared the government's assessment because it is a rapidly changing landscape, and we believe that ten years is far too long. Looking back on what has happened in technology development over the last ten years, there is reason to believe that technological developments over the next ten years will be taking place at an increasing pace. The referral bodies in the investigation also consider that a rapidly changing media market is an aggravating circumstance precisely in terms of the length of the permit periods. We, as well as the majority in committee, propose that it should be six years at first and then eight years. Madam President, I would like I shall proceed to the adjustment of the amount of the fee. The proposal provides for the levy to be set at 1% of taxable earned income. The bill states that the public service fee may not finance activities other than public service broadcasting and the activities directly linked to it. For the Moderates, this is central, as is the determination of the amount of funding allocated to the companies in connection with the broadcasting permits. Over a long period of time, the allocation of funds has been calculated annually by 2 per cent to create stable economic conditions while at the same time exerting pressure on companies to streamline their operations. In the bill, the government argues that revenue from contributions is likely to increase at a faster rate, partly as a result of annual increases in the amount of income base and partly as the number of persons with taxable earned income is expected to increase. As stated in the bill, there is a possibility that a surplus will be built up on the public service account, given that the revenue exceeds the funding allocation. There is a reasoning as to the amount of fees over time and that it would need to be adjusted. The Moderates agree with that. We therefore believe that it should be supplemented by greater automaticity in order to avoid the build-up of these large surpluses. The review should also not only take place in connection with the granting of new broadcasting authorisations. An annual balancing should be carried out. The Moderates also reserve now that Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB is discontinued. For the control task that Radiotjänst has had, and which disappears with the abolition of the television licence, taxpayers have set aside part of the radio and television fee. It should be reasonable for these funds to return to the contributors. It can thus contribute to a reduction in charges. Madam President, I would like I'm moving on to income from sponsorship. One of the basic prerequisites for public service is to be independent of both political and commercial influence. The basic principle of broadcasting licences is therefore that the companies are not allowed to broadcast advertising and sponsored programmes where the sponsor grant has been awarded directly to the company. On the other hand, there is an exception that there may be no more than 20 events per year. It may sound a bit in the context. But at those sporting events there are repeated commercials. It can include as many as 500 - 600 when they are added up. We believe that the principles should apply and that sponsorship should therefore be severely limited and only take place in exceptional cases. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, mandatory media ethics review should become more accessible and professional. Anyone who feels discredited and wrongly quoted in news reports can today report it to the Press Ombudsman. M a if the publication has taken place online it is not always possible. During the spring, there has been a proposal for a new media ethics system. It is important that it is self-regulatory in the same way as the press ethics system. It is also important that public service broadcasters are included in such a system. We believe that it should be stated that public service broadcasters should be subject to a media ethics review, even if it is up to the parties in the industry to agree on how such a system should be designed. Madam President, I would like Finally, as regards the activities of the Audit Board, the Audit Board is there to examine whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to broadcasting. According to the broadcasting licence, broadcasting rights must be exercised impartially and objectively, taking into account the wide-ranging freedom of expression and information on radio and television. We believe that this activity must also be characterised by publicity and clarity, i.e. that greater and higher demands need to be placed on the decisions notified by the Audit Board to be justified. It is failing today. The Audit Board also needs to be given more sanctions. For example, consideration should be given to whether the Audit Board should be able to impose a specific fee on broadcasters who violate the broadcasting licence. Today, the Board can apply to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for a specific fee to be paid by a broadcaster. However, this applies only to infringements of the rules on unfair advertising and sponsorship. Madam President, I would like In the light of the foregoing, the Government should ensure objectivity and impartiality in public service by also developing the Board's mandate. A new government will have to address this issue urgently, and we intend to ensure that it does.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-198	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the new form of public service funding. In about a month and a half we go from a TV fee to a public service tax. I shall present today the views and position of the Swedish democrats on this subject. I would first of all like to endorse reservations 1 and 6. I would also like to put on record that we have a specific opinion under paragraph 2. I will probably exceed my speaking time today. Two years ago, an investigation was launched that would lead to proposals for a new broadcasting permit, a new fee and how public service should work in the future. Even then, we criticised the government for not starting the investigation earlier. Time passed. One term of office is four years. You can't do magic with time, whether you're a minister or not. I'm sorry they didn't listen to us. Instead, we received the final report at the beginning of the summer and the proposal came shortly afterwards. If we speak clearly, it has been a rather tight schedule for getting a proposal that we are now debating and deciding on. In the end, at least we got a bill, a proposal with proposals that we presented in our final report in the investigation, but there were also proposals that went in the opposite direction. Let me start with the transition period of broadcasting permits. The investigation's proposal was six years and then eight-year broadcasting permits. In the bill, the government says ten years and then eight years. We Swedish democrats want to see as short a permit as possible. We live in a media world that is in constant development. We don't know what kind of technology we have in six, eight or ten years. We don't want the public service companies to lock themselves away from making changes. Public service companies must take account of technological developments. We believe, with today's rapid technological development phase, that it is strategically stupid to lock yourself in long state of transmission. The arguments put forward are to ensure independence through long broadcasting permits. We believe that there are others seen to secure independence on and extend the arm-length distance principle. Some of them I will present today. Madam President, I would like If you have two things to choose from, a transitional period of ten or six years, we will choose the shortest in line with our policy. I can understand that the government parties become bitter when we in the opposition get an announcement, but then one should have listened to the investigation's proposals from the beginning. Public service has recently received a lot of criticism for not being objective enough, not being sufficiently independent and being too commercial. Some of the criticisms are justified, another part can be questioned. Whether the criticism is justified or not, it is important that the companies ask themselves: Why is this criticism and debate brought forward? Why are we being called into question by our independence and our objectivity? Can we change the way we work? That is the most important question to ask yourself. For this reason, we would have liked the investigation to have been carried out in the course of the investigation, too, on which we could have taken a position today. The Swedish Democrats have for several years exercised in setting up a scientific council. We propose that, at least in the case of public service news and fact-finding, there should be a social body that consistently checks the objectivity and accuracy of information in the case of a notification. This could be done by the Board of Auditors, or a specialised body, setting up a Scientific Council to check the merits of notified programmes or reports. It is of the utmost importance that the public service broadcasters know and understand what the notifications that come in are about so that the companies do not end up in the same situation again. The audience who takes part of the content should feel and have confidence in the public service companies. That is how we maintain confidence between producers and consumers. Another thing we want to get to is to ensure more objectivity and independence. I will not go into detail in this debate on it, but I refer to our public service motion. At the end of the investigation, we dealt with the preliminary investigation. The ex ante evaluation has never been applied in Sweden. It requires new assignments or other services of major importance to be notified to the Government in advance for approval. The notification must also be reported to the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority, which in turn investigates and approves the general value and market impact of the new service. We are sceptical as to whether it is the mandate of politicians and, in particular, the government to decide whether or not public service broadcasters should be allowed to start new services. The distinction between censorship and political governance from the government is fine in this respect. As I said, independence has recently been a heated debate. My colleague, Mr Emilsson, will talk about this in more detail in his speech. That is why I will not mention it any more than I have done so far. Madam President, I would like I believe that, now that we are setting up a new financing system, it must have as much confidence and confidence as possible. It is a matter of respect for what our common resources should fund. As a result, when the possibility of opting out is lost, the incentive increases even more in order to ensure the legitimacy of the new financing system, for a new public service tax. In view of all the points I have made today, there are too many question marks and clarifications that need to be clarified before we can support this new financing bill. That is why we propose to launch a new investigation that will take place where the previous one ended and which will also investigate the proposals that we have run here in Parliament and which we are convinced would strengthen independence and extend the arm's length principle. There are still too many questions and ambiguities at present to allow us to accept the legislative changes and proposals proposed by the government. Proposals on how to overcome the criticisms that have been made have not been made. All along, if you wanted to, you could have worked out proposals that could have been presented in the bill. I take it that the government is satisfied with the criticisms that have been made since the final report was published and therefore did not want to change and increase popular support when it wrote the bill. Furthermore, I would like to add that it is a strange attitude towards democracy when we do not want to investigate or test broadcasting permits more continuously than what is being proposed. I therefore propose, as I said, that the proposal be rejected and, instead, that we approve of reservation 1 and reservation 6, which concerns the opening of a new investigation.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-221	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1 states that there are still high levels of confidence in public service. I have just one brief question about it: What assessment does Angelika Bengtsson make of this fact?
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-222	Madam President, I would like Yes, there is a high level of confidence in public service, especially when compared with commercial media. This is particularly true in the current debate on fake news and what is correct and what is not. However, we see that independence needs to be strengthened even more in order for those who are still not convinced of what public services should and should not do to gain greater confidence. This is all connected. Public service should be available so that you can trust what is said in SVT, Swedish Radio and UR. That's why we have public service. If you don't trust it, you might as well put it all down. However, this is not something we want. We want to strengthen the already high levels of confidence even more. That is why we have proposed a new investigation and therefore we are calling for a rejection of the proposal. The question is why the other parties do not want to increase the already high levels of confidence even further.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-225	Madam President, I would like We want that, and that is why there is broad agreement in Parliament to make some changes in order to strengthen independence. I noted that Angelika Bengtsson now said in his speech that independence should be strengthened in order to increase confidence and that strengthening independence increases confidence in public service. That's what she said in the answer. At the same time, the entire speech of the Swedish Democrats in this debate is about the opposite, about reducing independence. They want shorter budget periods, shorter permit periods and scientific advice to do a review. There are a lot of proposals that actually indicate that the Swedish Democrats have low confidence in public service. These are proposals that reduce independence. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats say that if you want to increase confidence in public services, you need to increase independence. How are these two things connected?
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-229	Madam President, I would like We live in a changing world. We do not know what technical equipment we will have or what technological development will be like in six, eight or ten years' time. Therefore, we do not want to lock oss in long broadcasting permits, we want as short broadcasting permits as possible so that the public service companies can keep up with the development. I find it sad that we want to lock up in the case of certain technological developments over a period of ten years. We don't know what's on our desk in ten years. That is why we say no to this. We have a continuous dialogue with the public service companies, which I believe all of us cultural politicians have. In this dialogue, we are examining our proposals to see what the companies think of them, whether the proposals are credible and whether the companies can agree to them. This is being done to increase confidence even more and to ensure that independence is enforced. We're doing this for the numbers. We do it to make the audience feel confident. We do this to extend the armlong distance between us and the public service broadcasters. That is why we are going forward with the proposals we have. Not having faith in dialogue or in technological development is not something I stand for. I believe in this and that is why we are presenting these proposals. I really believe that the proposals we are making, including a new investigation, will lead to increased confidence in the companies and greater independence for the public service broadcasters.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-235	Madam President, I would like It feels very good that today we can take an important step in securing continued strong funding for the public service companies Sveriges Television, Utbildningsradion and Sveriges Radio. This is also what we call public service television and radio. It's a beautiful and heavy task. It cannot be overemphasised how important this mission is, to be for the people and not for those in power who rule here in Parliament, in Rosenbad or in private business. Democracy needs independent strong voices that can and dare to review and challenge power. This role can be played by both private and public actors, but in today's debate we will focus on how we can ensure that SVT, Swedish Radio and UR can continue to be those voices for a long time to come. The old method of financing has come to an end. As more and more people opt out of the traditional TV set, too few people will bear the cost. So simple is mathematics. The radio and television fee has had to be increased three times in the last four years to cover the funding. And the more expensive it gets, the more people risk losing the system. There's been a negative spiral in recent years. What model could be better and could break this spiral has been discussed and investigated for a long time. We in the Left Party are satisfied with the proposal we have today to consider whether a new public service fee that everyone over 18 years of age with an earned income is involved in paying. Of course, it could be a little more progressive in its design – it is a large proportion of the population that will pay the maximum fee. However, it is gratifying that those with really low incomes and students with CSN grants alone will be free of charge and that single households will receive a halved cost. This is a good compromise that has broad support in Parliament. In this way, we can save the business. The structure agreed by the parliamentary committee with representatives from all parties ensures that the public service fee is kept separate from the rest of the budget work. For the Left Party, it has been a fundamental requirement to protect activities from political interference. Prior to me, speakers have made clear what such interference has led to in other European countries. Madam President, I would like The new financing system also represents a change in the view of companies' role. There are citizens who believe that those who do not watch SVT or listen to Swedish Radio should not have to pay for public service. The proposal we are considering today contains a clear and fine wording describing SVT, SR and UR as a democratic public good that benefits all citizens, regardless of whether the supply is consumed or not. Public service thus serves a purpose for all of us. I believe that most people can agree on the importance of rapid and accessible traffic information, which is currently taking place via radio. I also believe that many people recognise the value of companies having a special mission to inform the public about crises. As a Westerner, at the last two major fires I have been very grateful for the reports that have taken place. It's about the mission to be part of the emergency preparedness and total defense. We also get a better society when people are objectively informed about current events and research. You get knowledge of things you didn't even know you wanted to know more about. We will have a more viable democracy. The companies' task of reflecting the whole country, supporting Swedish film and producing programmes in minority languages are other important parts that contribute to the development of society and individuals in a positive direction, we believe. The fact that the public service broadcasters carry out their mission well demonstrates the strong confidence of the population in them. It shows the measurements year after year. The Left Party believes that the proposal for a new fee and fixed permit periods will provide better conditions for long-term planning. Our hope was that most parties could agree on really long periods, as it also strengthens the independence and opportunity for the companies to make investments and map out the path in the new media landscape. Madam President, I would like I trust that the knowledge of technological development is high in the public service companies. I regret that the Committee on Culture was unable to agree that the first period of the new permit would be ten years and then to move to eight-year permits. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have instead agreed on six years and then eight years with reference to precisely technical change. I believe that it is the companies that are best able to determine which investments are to be made and what future developments are. I would therefore like to call for the approval of Amendment No 2 by the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which deals with this very issue. Otherwise, I support the report.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-248	Madam President, I would like The question of funding the TV fee has been up for a number of years. The Christian Democrats were early out proposing a different funding, much like the one we are about to decide on today. So now we are at the important and historic decision. It always seems impossible until it 中 s done, to quote Nelson Mandela. For the uninvited, I can say that the public service companies are three in number: Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio. It is also called public broadcasting. It is the Riksdag that decides on the mission and the Government that sets the framework. In the introduction to the current state of broadcasting, you can read: ..................................................... It can be said that the public service companies are based on four cornerstones: a form of ownership separate from the state, funding from the people, regulation through the parliament and, last but not least, impartiality of the supply. The last stated vision from last autumn is: ..................................................... The public service companies have 8 billion to use in their operations. The money has been collected via invoices from Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB, Rikab. Of course, everyone knows this. The new proposal concerns a fee comparable to the funeral fee, which is administered by the Swedish Tax Agency. The maximum level for one person is SEK 1 308. That's where you hit the ceiling. This is a monthly income of less than 14 000. All 18-year-olds with taxable income are covered. What, then, does this new system provide? The Public Service Committee compared the income that would have been received with the 2016 salary level if this system had been in place. You ended up at just over 8 billion, so it will be about the same level. As Annicka Engblom pointed out, problems can arise when we – hopefully – get more and more people into work; there will also be a surplus somewhere, so that somehow this would have to be balanced. Single households are the most favoured in this context. The Christian Democrats are pleased to see the broad consensus that prevails in the Riksdag regarding the importance of public service. The mission carried out by Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio is, as many here have expressed, important and fundamental for our democracy and our open society. The Christian Democrats are in favour of an independent public service that can provide independent and factual news media, in-depth and objective scrutiny, as well as a broad and high-quality cultural offering and education, as stated in our motion. We have long proposed that today's radio and television fee should be replaced by an individual fee that is collected through the Swedish Tax Agency and that Rikab should therefore be discontinued, while the fee model should not affect the independence of public services negatively. We also see in the light of today's rapid technological development that a modern and technology-neutral financing model for public service is needed. We know that SVT was the most important source of information for the Swedish people in the run-up to the elections. Several million people watched the debates on SVT. Nine out of ten watch some SVT program for a week. Average Swedish sees about an hour on SVT every day. The global companies are in many cases giants, such as Google and Facebook. Their advertising revenue is the same as all newspapers' advertising revenue in Sweden together. It is enough that they change a little in their programming from their base somewhere and the media work is affected throughout Europe. One of the key words in the report of the parliamentary public service inquiry is that of legitimacy. A changed financing model must be perceived as having high legitimacy among the population in order to be sustainable in the long term. That is why information, not least that given here today, is very important. The Christian Democrats support the proposal for new funding for radio and television with the reasons set out in the investigation, but we also have a number of views and differences of opinion. Today Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB manages both the collection of radio and television fees and the execution of fee controls. A part of the radio and television fee is set aside for this task. When Radiotjänst is now discontinued, it is reasonable for these funds to return to the fee payers and thus contribute to a reduction in the fee. We Christian Democrats have also expressed in the Committee – I would like to thank Martina Kyngäs, who was our representative – that we are opposed to the proposal being able to provide a high cost per household in cases where families have children living at home who work. If mother and father and say two children over 18 years of age work, it will be quite a cost to the household. In the light of the increased revenues resulting from the levy being collected through the tax bill and the increased efficiency, the financing model should be able to be constructed in a slightly different way to ensure that households with children living at home who are working are not hit so hard. We also write this in our reservation. We also believe, unlike the Committee's proposals, that it is important to review and limit the possibility of sponsorship, which currently exists in certain programme productions. We believe that this is important in order to further strengthen confidence in the independence of public service broadcasters. The fact that SVT is allowed to broadcast 20 sponsored events per year may seem reasonable, but in reality this means much more. Each event may contain a larger number of individual broadcasts. In recent years SVT has broadcast sponsorship spots at around 500 or up to 600 individual broadcasts. On each consignment, sponsorship is shown from several operators, sometimes several times during the broadcast. This is basically a problem. The fact that one broadcast covers brands on clothing and signs in order to supply the next broadcast with explicit sponsorships risks damaging the company's credibility and rhymes badly with the requirement of commercial independence. The Christian Democrats believe that it is important to review the possibilities of sponsorship for SVT. We believe that this is important in order to further strengthen confidence in the independence of public service broadcasters. Madam President, I would like In order to justify the proposed financing model, we also need to create structures around public service in order to guarantee independence. Independence is one of the cornerstones of public service. The Audit Board is a very important part of it and should have strength in its work. The Audit Board is in place to examine whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to broadcasting. Anyone can report a program to the Audit Board, unlike the Press Opinion Board, where only those who consider themselves exposed to publicity damage can report. The Swedish National Audit Board examines whether the content of Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio programmes meets certain requirements regarding, among other things, objectivity and impartiality. The activities of the Audit Board must always be transparent and transparent. This means, among other things, that higher demands should be made that the decisions notified by the Audit Board should always be justified. Today's rejection decisions are often flawed. There should also be more stringent requirements for the Board of Auditors to deal with cases notified there. There are strong reasons why the Audit Board should be entrusted with a clearer investigation responsibility than the Board has today. This would create better conditions for decisions based on correct facts and relevant circumstances compared to a system based on the notifying party's tasks setting the framework for the review of the Board of Review. It is not reasonable to assume that the person notifying a programme to the Audit Board can always be expected to know exactly what circumstances are relevant to the Board's continued review. As a general rule, when the Board of Auditors convicts a broadcaster for failing to comply with the rules on impartiality and objectivity, it only makes the broadcaster publish the decision. The requirement for a conviction to be made public should, as I have said here, be clarified. The starting point should be that it should have the same forward position as the element that led to the precipitate. Against this background, the Government should review the Board's mandate with a view to developing measures to ensure that public services meet the requirements of objectivity and impartiality. I support the reservations supported by the KD, i.e. 5, 9 and 11.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-270	Madam President, I would like A diversity of independent media is essential for democracy to function properly. At a time when the free press in too many parts of the world is under pressure, it is more important than ever to protect the media and free journalism. All people regardless of where in the country they live should have access to comprehensive, high-quality news media so that everyone can independently form an opinion of society based on facts and knowledge. Journalism is also an important protection against abuse of power and corruption. Through free media scrutiny of those who have power in society, the public is given transparency in the exercise of power, and abuses can be revealed and responsibilities demanded. It is clear that journalism is crucial to keeping democracy vital. Madam President, I would like Public service has a unique role and a special responsibility here. With its broad mission, which includes both news activities and an extensive cultural mission and is aimed at the entire population, the central needs of society are met. It becomes particularly clear when society is in crisis. Last summer, when at most 50 fires raged in different places in Sweden, it was absolutely crucial that citizens were reached with information on time. In other words, public service is a public good that has a democratic value for the whole of society and should therefore be funded by everyone. I am also pleased that, year after year, the public service companies continue to have a very high level of confidence among the Swedish people. This confidence is crucial for Sweden's Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio to succeed in their mission to remain independent voices that reach out throughout the country. Rapid media development and digitalisation in recent years have changed the conditions for all traditional media and also public services. The new media landscape has a plethora of media, information channels and social media, and media habits have also changed. As more and more households take part in news, films or concerts via various internet services such as SVT Play or SR Play and the share of households with a TV set is decreasing, so is the share of households paying TV fees. The current charging system will therefore not work in the long term. Today's report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on the introduction of a new system of public service funding for decisions taken by the Parliament is the subject of a report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. This means that the TV licence from 1 January 2019 will be abolished and replaced by a fee that will be collected via the tax bill but will be paid to the broadcasters entirely alongside the state budget. It is very gratifying that there is broad political agreement that the new system should be stable, legitimate and safeguard the independence of broadcasters in the long term. Through public service activities, we also ensure that there are media in our country that can reach the entire population without being dependent on a few large internet platforms based outside the EU. All of the Government's proposals aim to increase the integrity of the public service, not least the proposal that the activities of broadcasters should be maintained for a longer period of time. We do not therefore see that a transitional provision on broadcasting permits for six years, which the alliance parties have voted through in the Committee on Culture, would serve its purpose. We believe that it is of the utmost importance that the Riksdag and the Government show confidence in the ability of broadcasters to plan and manage, within the framework of the new financing system, the direction and scope of their activities for longer periods. Instead, a six-year transitional provision delays broadcasters' prospects for long-term planning. The rapid pace of change in the media sector, as mentioned earlier, is not a strong enough argument against a ten-year transitional provision. Managing the changing media landscape is primarily a task for broadcasters. Worth mentioning in this context is that the BBC has ten-year broadcasting permits. There is political agreement to extend broadcasting licences to eight years in the future. Together with a first ten-year authorisation period, broadcasters would have a stable and predictable framework for their activities. It would also indicate well that we are entering a new financing system.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-279	Madam President, I would like Today we have to decide how public service is to be financed in the future and how public service independence can be strengthened. An independent public service is important for our country's democracy. In order for us to have a functioning democracy, we who live in the country need to be involved and involved, not least to monitor and follow what we decision-makers in different positions decide and then be able to influence the decisions. In order to be involved, one must also be informed. Therefore, we need both public service and commercial media, side by side. A prerequisite for us to have a living democracy is that there is access to independent media with the resources, opportunities and skills to produce and demonstrate investigative journalism. Public services play a special role in this media landscape, namely as a player with a high level of integrity and independent of political governance and commercial interests. This is obviously a balancing process and a task that must be constantly tested and evaluated. Public service is currently financed through a fee for households with a television set. The media landscape as well as technology are constantly evolving and have in recent years undergone something that could be described as a revolution. Access to public service content is no longer only via a fixed television set in the household or a radio set via the FM network. No, today they take part in public service in many different ways and more individualised than before. You use a mobile phone, tablet or computer and choose when and where to take part of the offer. You are no longer bound by a program tableau when you are going to take part of the program or feature that you are interested in. This also means that the TV fee that finances public service has played its part because television is no longer a prerequisite for access to the offer. From having previously been linked to the household's common television set, adapted to the programme table, watching and listening has become a clearer individual matter. Therefore, an individual public service fee is the natural step to take now. It is also something that the Center Party has wanted and been pushing for a long time. After all, the question is why should I pay if I don't watch SVT or listen to Swedish Radio. That is an important point to make. My answer is basically the same as the one I began my speech with: an independent public service is important for our country's democracy. Even if you do not actively take part of the content of public service, it serves a function for you. Through an independent public service's reviews of power and society, democracy is safeguarded, for the benefit of all who live here. The culture and entertainment that the public service companies produce and convey also gives an image of society and an opportunity to strengthen it. At the same time, it also provides an opportunity for different groups in our society to take part in their own history and culture. It is also an opportunity to increase knowledge and understanding. Public service's broad mission is a prerequisite for continuing to be relevant in our society and in the fast moving media landscape. Here I would also particularly like to highlight UR, the Education Radio, which also Roland Utbult mentioned, which, with its unique mission to educate and form, is an important part of public service. The public finance model we have today with a TV fee is out of date. Basically, it is also an unfair fee. It is paid per household regardless of the size of the household or the common income. It is also connected to the television set, which means that although I choose not to have a TV in my home, I still have the opportunity to take part in the public service's offer via other technical aids. In addition, public services, which I highlighted earlier in my speech, are important to all of us regardless of whether or not they are offered. The public service fee we have today to decide on and which will take effect from the end of the year is therefore a natural and proper way to go. It also means that a single parent will pay half of what you pay with today's contribution, while a family with two incomes will pay the equivalent of today's contribution. Another aspect of this is that with this decision we are making it easier for entrepreneurs. Today, we demand from television dealers that they report the name and address of Radiotjänst on the person to whom they sold a television set. The individual public service fee will no longer be necessary. Madam President, I would like The report, which forms the basis of the government's proposal and the committee's decision-making documents on long-term financing and strengthening public service independence, proposes that the permit periods for public service broadcasters should be eight years. The idea is that the permit period will start the same year as ordinary parliamentary elections are held. This design of the permit period strengthens the independence of public service broadcasters. Eight years can be seen as a long period of the state, not least in view of the rapidly changing media market. However, the option would be a four-year state, which would not secure and strengthen independence. Eight-year permit periods thus provide companies with the means to ensure long-term sustainability and stability, not least at a time of many uncertainties. The prerequisite is of course that during the permit period there is a follow-up of the assignments. As a prerequisite for the eight-year permit periods is that they start the same year as ordinary parliamentary elections are held in Sweden and that the current permit period expires in 2020, this means that it does not work with an eight-year permit period at this particular time, i.e. from 2020– at least not if the permit period after that is to start in connection with ordinary parliamentary elections. This means that the next authorisation period should instead be six years in order to switch to eight-year permit periods in 2026. In its proposal, the Government proposes that the next permit period, which starts in 2020, should instead be ten years old and then turn into eight-year permit periods in 2030. It is, in my opinion, a far too long period, not least in view of the rapidly changing media landscape and that eight-year periods ago will be the next step. Here I believe that the Parliamentary Public Service Committee made the right assessment when it really looked at these issues in detail and proposed a six-year permit from 2020 and eight-year permit from 2026. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-295	Madam President, I would like There are many of us here today who have talked about the importance of independence for public service, and I strongly support it. I mentioned it in my speech, and my colleague is about to talk about it more. I would like to talk a little about how you feel that public service is independent. It's a matter of fact. If consumers feel that public services are factual in their production and in what they convey, they believe in public services' independence, and that is why they have a high level of trust in public service providers. Why, then, does the Center Party not want to support our reservations that want to increase independence? Why do you as a center party not want to do more to attract more people to public service and the content they produce rather than attract other media? The public service companies have continued to have very high levels of confidence, but, as we have pointed out in previous debates, these figures are on a downward trend. It has not been highlighted in today's debate, but it is a fact. Why does the Center Party not want to do more to ensure that the downward trend is reversed?
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-299	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to understand Angelika Bengtsson's questions in this case. The proposal now on the table is, of course, a clear proposal to strengthen the independence of public services. It is about public services receiving a different type of funding, outside the normal state budget. It is also a question of providing public service funding over an eight-year permit period, after an initial six-year period. So we should not be able to go in politically and adjust and influence these budget lines each year. It is also a question of continuing to have as unpolitical a review of public services as possible. So I do not quite understand Angelika Bengtsson's concern in that respect, Madam President. The decision we are making today is one way of strengthening public service. What makes me a little worried is instead that the Swedish Democrats and Angelika Bengtsson would rather see shorter permit periods. This would mean more rapid political changes in new permit trials, depending on the state constellation. This and other parts make me a little worried when it comes to the Swedish Democrats' and Angelika Bengtsson's proposals for public service.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-301	Madam President, I would like We want to expand the function of the Audit Board precisely to ensure the facts. We want shorter broadcasting permits so that the companies do not fold flat for technical development eight or ten years to come. We want to continue to have annual budget bases to see what is produced. We have many proposals, such as the examination of the facts and the exposure to rectification. We have many suggestions among our reservations that would ensure an independent public service. Per Lodenius and the Center Party need not be concerned. Why do you not want to do more to ensure that more people turn to public services? It is a fact that the confidence figures are still high, but it is also a fact that they are going down. Why doesn't the Center Party want to do more to reverse the trend?
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-304	Madam President, I would like In order for those who take part of the public service offer to think that it is a student, the offer should be broad and cover and monitor the whole of Sweden. The issue of licensing comes later in the second part of the public service decisions to be taken. Increasing control, as advocated by the Swedish Democrats and Angelika Bengtsson, is not a way to increase confidence in the public service companies. Instead, it is to increase the political governance of public service broadcasters. That's not the way to go. I believe that the decision we are going to take today, which is about strengthening the independence and funding of public services, is the right way to go. The next step will be to talk about the permits and permits, which will then apply from 2020. That's the way to go. In this way, public services will continue to be relevant to all residents of Sweden.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-307	Madam President, I would like Our time is now. This is the name of a Swedish drama series that currently brings together about 2 million Swedish viewers every week. The series is an expression of the importance of Swedish public broadcasting. It reflects Sweden's history and the development of our society and creates a community around the cultural markers that have shaped us and our country today. Our time is now also in the sense that our time is in constant, constant, change and in many respects a high pace of development. This applies not least to the media development and development of media and digital platforms where we consume media; radio, television, film, text, sound etc. Our time is also globalised, and more and more international players, such as Netflix and HBO, are attracting more and more Swedish viewers with their streaming services. Blue TV is declining in scale, technology neutrality is a fact and the selection of film and television productions is growing and competing with public broadcasting – public service. All in all, Madam President, the press and demands for traditional and traditional large and established platforms are intensifying, not least licence-financed and soon tax-funded radio and television. This is particularly true when a law stipulates that everyone should finance a certain range of radio and television in a plethora of actors where one has previously been able to vote with one's feet and choose, or opt out of, the offer of public service by having or not having television. Three fundamental questions then arise today. Firstly, what motivates public service broadcasting today and its special status vis-à-vis other actors? Secondly, is public broadcasting de facto in public service, and who decides it? If not – how do public service providers' offerings and services are anchored in the public domain and gain popular legitimacy? Thirdly, what do we want public broadcasting to be and do today and tomorrow? Our time is now, and now is already yesterday. I will outline our most important starting points of principle and answers to the three questions. Firstly, the Swedish Democrats see Sweden and the Swedes as part of a Swedish, Nordic, European and Western community – in the descending order. We also see ourselves as a peoples' movement that protects our culture, our language, our history and the way we live today – in short, our nation and its citizens. It is easy to motivate general-funded Swedish radio and television from these perspectives. Sweden is a small country in northern Europe in terms of population, but it is a vast country geographically. We are a small language area, but with a unique and rich language. Sweden is a modern and innovative country, but with a long, proud and rich history. We know that we cannot rely on international actors or federations without economic benefits or market interest to or can produce high quality news, drama, documentaries or films in Sweden in Swedish. We know that the Swedish language area is too small for that. We know that rural and sparsely populated areas are too big for commercial operators such as TV4 or international operators to establish or even expand the number of local editors – as newspaper death spreads and leaves unattended parts of the country in its tracks. It is only through Swedish political will that we can ensure this by means of public broadcasting. Productions in Swedish throughout the country and in different categories motivate general-funded radio and television itself. It is also only through the broadcasting permits for public services that we can impose requirements. That justifies a special position. Secondly, is public broadcasting, Madam President, that being said in public service today? Yes and no, I think a lot of people would conclude the answer. Nine out of ten Swedes consume television broadcast by Swedish Television every week. Millions listen to Swedish Radio. They reflect Sweden in news, coverage of culture, nature and celebrations, and they produce entertainment in the Swedish language, our most important cultural marker. Unlike other market players, services and offerings are also targeted at target groups with disabilities, such as in the most extensive sign-interpreted range. They reflect Sweden from north to south and our different needs and conditions. But – nota bene – more and more people are increasingly finding that public broadcasting is increasingly in public disservice. We have been able to see this on the side of bourgeois leaders just before this debate and in the social debate as a whole. In the final stage of the election movement, Sweden's Television acted as judge in the major final debate, which broke in and distanced itself from a statement from a particular party, cut off and removed from its context, rather than allowing it to be met by political opponents within the framework of the debate. It also led to the redeployment of the responsible publisher and a partial recognition of the violation by Swedish Television and the puddling of numerous voters against the company in terms of bias, inquisitiveness and undue electoral influence – as Sweden's Television rightly observed after having problematicd the use and application of the otherwise important democracy clause. From a helicopter perspective, it can be seen that a broad majority of voters also in today's polarized media landscape hold Swedish Television and Swedish Radio as the most relevant and informative channels for elections and in connection with the general election coverage. At the same time, surveys show in black and white that confidence in companies is decreasing in several target groups. What does this all say? Well, that the public takes part in public service. But public service must each time demonstrate and gain credibility in reflecting the entire people throughout the country, all political perspectives, review and monitor political parties and movements with the same yardsticks and sharpness, test perspectives against each other, reflect the breadth of opinion-formers, act and mark internally and transparently against deficiencies in objectivity and independence, in order not only to retain those who feel trust today but also to win back those who have lost confidence. It is about consolidating and maintaining trust and the genuine popular legitimacy that is needed. Thirdly, what do we want public broadcasting to be and do, Madam President? There will be much of a technical debate on a day like this, but it is also important to map out the visions and principles. We are debating radio and television today, but what does that mean today? It is certainly still a question of elementary media platforms and communicational anals, but television makes text and sound, and newspapers make television, etcetera. The formats are transformed and challenged by social media, YouTube channels and internet-based news sites in the wake of the digital revolution. The media landscape is changing, and we decision-makers need to be aware and wise in how we respond to it. Our most important task, I mean, is to create the conditions for a multifaceted media offering and a secure and secure infrastructure and to offer tools for source criticism. There, public service – with the right reforms – is an essential and fundamental idea and institution in our democratic society. Our rejection of today's too tight and short-term proposal, along with our battery of innovative proposals and proposals for a new comprehensive investigation, lays the foundation for future developments. It is also interesting to note that more and more people are now approaching the line we highlighted in the study on the order in which public service issues would be investigated and in what order the funding would come when important and fundamental issues such as reformed review boards, broadcasting permits and reforms for factuality had been investigated. We welcome this and we hope that we can continue that discussion in the future.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-324	Madam President, I would like Like my colleague, Mr Redar, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the report and, in general, for the committee's proposal. A strong, independent public service requires long-term, stable funding. The licensing system we have had so far has served us well, but at this time of rapid technology development the system has reached the end of the road. Madam President, I would like I was one of the members assigned to the Parliamentary Public Service Committee. It was an extremely interesting and exciting piece of work, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive work and the secretariat of the Committee for their hard work. Madam President, I would like The new funding system we propose is robust, long-term and technology neutral, and it is a foundation for us to have a continued strong public service radio and television with a range for everyone who depicts the whole of Sweden. As a result of the change in the financing system, the agreement with Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB must be terminated. 240 people work there today. It is a large and important workplace for Kiruna, Norrbotten and the whole of Sweden – it corresponds to approximately 15 000 jobs in Stockholm. The Social Democratic-led government has therefore announced that it intends to replace these jobs so that the state takes advantage of the broad skills available in the workplace. However, as we now have a transitional government which is obliged to present a transitional budget, the investment in replacement jobs comes to an end. It is unfortunate but inevitable and contributes to the fact that Radiotjänst's employees now live in uncertainty about the future. Therefore, as soon as it presents an amending budget, an incoming government should secure jobs in Kiruna. It is also my greeting to Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB. Madam President, I would like The fact that the Swedish Parliament is now taking steps to secure independence and strengthen long-term funding for public services is important, and that is right and proper. Having public service – or public broadcasting, as we also say – is a foundation of our democracy. At a time when disinformation is trying to shape people's opinions and authoritarian powers, trying to take control of what can be said and what cannot be said, yes, there is independent radio and television in the public service without commercial or political influence more important than ever and something that concerns everyone.
i-QDsz8svTNamTzjyj8SBBfn	Madam President, I would like The Tax Committee's report No 4 deals with the proposal for the implementation of CFC rules in the EU directive against tax evasion. The proposal brings Swedish legislation into line with the EU Directive against tax evasion. We verige democrats, I would like to start by saying, are in favour of combating tax evasion and tax evasion and are particularly in favour of intergovernmental cooperation in this area. We have therefore chosen during the previous term of office to support the development and improvement of methods aimed at preventing tax evasion by taking the OECD guidelines and recommendations as a starting point, and we will continue to do so. The proposal is therefore an adaptation – an adaptation that certainly needs to be made, but we believe that it should not be made in exactly the way it is proposed. The government's proposal to flat-rate tax the insurance reserve deviates from the OECD guidelines, which do not specifically stipulate that flat-rate income taxation of the insurance reserve should take place. On the other hand, the reported results of the insurance company are mentioned, i.e. when they are returned from the insurance reserve to the profit and loss account and not when money is recorded in the insurance reserve account. A flat-rate income is not the same as the actual result but an additional tax in addition to corporate profit taxation. Moreover, money in a bank account – especially if it lacks interest – does not generate any additional return, which makes it unreasonable to tax a flat-rate income on the asset. In addition, it seems that overcapitalisation has been interpreted as just the insurance reserve, which we think is wrong. The entire balance sheet of the insurance company with its asset and liability side needs to be assessed in its entirety. Generally taxing all the reserves of the insurance undertaking means meeting also those companies that are not overcapitalised. It would be better to instead carry out capitalisation statistics across the industry and identify which individual companies are reasonably considered to deviate significantly from the industry average and in such cases may be suspected of tax evasion. So what the bill is to some extent about is a tax increase. In recent years, the government has pursued a policy that has moved towards identifying more and more areas to tax. This government proposal is another proposal for action with that intention. This time, the government intends to increase tax revenues to the state by introducing flat-rate tax also on the insurance reserve of foreign non-life insurance companies that are partly Swedish-owned. Insurance companies operate in such a way that their insurance business has different results between different years. This is due to the random environment in which insurance companies operate, and this also applies to the sound management of their entire business. Thus, gains incurred in a year can be considered as at least partially already committed for future losses. Therefore, it is reasonable that the company may set off untaxed earnings in a reserve that can be used to cover future losses in the insurance business. Madam President, I would like The consequence of the government's proposal is that both a permanent flat-rate revenue on the security reserve and reductions and increases in the reserve should be included in taxation. This means a form of double taxation, which we do not think is reasonable. We believe that it is a mistake of thought to tax the security reserve in the way that has been proposed. The direct consequence is a different form of corporate profit taxation for different industries. The likely consequence of the tax cost could be that insurance companies increase insurance premiums, which would result in customers receiving more expensive insurance policies. We do not want to support this. Finally, we believe that the bill is something of a hafsverk. There we rely on several consultation bodies, not least the Law Council. If I had been able to insist that one should do it again and do it right, I would have done it, but now we have to be content with calling for rejection until a new government – which it is now and when it can now be envisaged to take office – is given the opportunity to do just that: do it again and do it right. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-341	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government's proposals for adjustments to the CFC rules. CFC stands for controlled foreign c ompany, and most countries have some kind of rules to prevent companies or branches from being formed in low-tax countries and thus also to transfer income to such companies or branches. In some cases, the owner of shares in a foreign company must pay tax in Sweden for the income of the foreign company. The CFC rules aim to prevent or complicate tax planning measures through transactions with low-taxed foreign legal persons that lead to the erosion of the Swedish tax base. For example, it may be transactions involving the transfer of income, for example through incorrect transfer prices, to group companies in low-tax states and then being taken home in the form of tax-free dividends or capital gains. Sweden has had rules for this since the 80s. However, for the CFC rules to function as intended, they need to be adjusted over time and adapted to changes in the world around them. It is also important to keep up with the tax planning industry that is constantly seeking loopholes and new ways of reducing taxes and promoting unfair competition. There is a global war on aggressive tax planning, which has devastating effects both on the welfare of developed countries and on the possibility of building welfare in developing countries. In spring 2013, the OECD, in cooperation with the G20, launched a project to combat tax base erosion and profit shifting. In October 2015, reports and a single document, known as the BEPS package, were published approved by the OECD and G20 countries. Sweden has actively participated in this work. In order to allow for a coordinated implementation of effective CFC rules in the EU, the Council adopted in July 2016 the Directive against tax evasion. The Directive means that EU Member States coordinate the implementation of some OECD Action Points with BEPS, including Action 3 on effective CFC rules. It is desirable that the regulatory framework be more similar between countries, and the EU Directive, on which these proposals are based, is a step along the way. Madam President, I would like Several of the proposals resulting from the EU directive in this case have already been met in the current Swedish regulatory framework, but some changes are being proposed, for example as regards the security reserve in the rules on when to start paying taxes as well as in the case of non-life insurance companies. It is also proposed to introduce certain amendments to comply with the Directive's rules on the elimination of double taxation of members of CFCs. The rules of the Directive apply to taxable persons subject to corporate taxation, while applicable Swedish CFC rules apply to both natural and legal persons. The proposals made in the bill involve changes for shareholders in both categories. There is a rule in the Income Tax Act which states that even if the net income is low-taxed, the income shall not be considered low-taxed if the foreign legal person belongs and is taxable in an area listed in an Annex to the Income Tax Act and is not subject to the exemptions set out in the Annex. This proposal also includes changes to this Annex. The new provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. The proposal contains important proposals to combat tax evasion. The possibility of tax planning damages the confidence in the tax system of the person who works and pays taxes. It is important to close holes in tax legislation. We should not have a system where those who have large resources with the help of ingenious arrangements can choose to pay taxes or not. I support the committee's proposal.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-348	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation on the Web Accessibility Directive. The proposal proposes a new law implementing the EU Directive on accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. The proposal also proposes certain provisions that go beyond the minimum requirements of the directive, which the Christian Democrats consider to be positive. Sweden should be a leading country in terms of everyone's full participation in society. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are broadly satisfied with the EU directive and the government proposal. The implementation will lead to greater participation by making digital public services more accessible, especially for people with disabilities. However, the Christian Democrats propose that the exception for schools and preschools contained in the bill be removed. Such an exception risks affecting pupils and parents in a negative way. Inaccessible digital service can mean that a large number of students are not given the opportunity to independently publish and communicate with other students as well as the material produced by the teachers. For example, the exemption excludes digital learning materials from the accessibility requirement. This also impairs parents' ability to access the growing digital information that schools and teachers address to them and which does not fall under the category of essential administrative functions. We do not share the government's view that the present paragraph on equal rights is being demolished in Chapter 1. The first paragraph of Article 8 of the Education Act is sufficient. That is why we are today in favour of our own proposal.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-352	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 2 on the Web Accessibility Directive to be approved. We in the Liberals are very positive about the fact that minimum requirements have now been agreed within the EU, making web applications and apps more accessible to the entire population of the EU. This applies to those provided by public organisations and also by enterprises financed by the public sector. The decision was taken in the EU in 2016 and will be introduced here in Sweden at the turn of the year. We Liberals also take a very positive view of the fact that the proposal on the table today goes beyond the minimum requirements set by the European Union. Madam President, I would like For us liberals, however, it is difficult to understand that exceptions are made for schoolchildren. It has been stated that only essential administrative systems are to be included in the directive and thus exclude systems belonging to the core mission of the school, such as learning platforms, which are becoming an increasingly important part of teaching. The government says that the motive is that young people with disabilities can be granted special support with the help of the School Act. But, Madam President, we Liberals see that functional variations exist on a sliding scale. Should we have more accessible digital services and learning platforms, it would also make it easier for all those people, children and young people who are not eligible for support. For us Liberals, however, the main reason for including learning platforms is that the very purpose of the directive is to make accessibility requirements so that people can participate as much as possible on equal terms without being dependent on special solutions. That is our main motive. You're just exempting schoolchildren. But to participate on equal terms is especially important when you grow up. It is important that as a child you do not differ from the crowd but can actually do things in the same way as your friends. Someone can argue that this makes the development of learning platforms very expensive. However, the Government's proposal states that companies, if they receive excessive costs due to the new law, can apply for exemption from the directive, and this applies generally to all organisations affected by the directive. Against this background, we Liberals want the new law to be followed up to ensure that learning platforms are designed in the future according to the principle of design for all, so that as many as possible are included in this proposal. I therefore call for our reservation, Madam President, to be approved.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-360	Madam President, I would like Much of the future is based on increasing accessibility via the web. It is an important step towards a more open and democratic society. The purpose of this Directive is to make the websites and apps in question more accessible to users. Improved accessibility means that the websites and apps will be easier to perceive and more user-friendly than today. However, the EU Directive contains minimum requirements, which means that individual Member States may impose stricter requirements in national legislation than the Directive provides for. This is why the proposal proposes a new law that will implement the provisions of the Web Accessibility Directive in Swedish law. The bill imposes requirements on authorities so that they have the opportunity to adapt to the specific requirements imposed on them by the bill. What is important to mention is that it applies not only to public authorities but also to private operators financed from public funds. It is precisely on this point that the proposal imposes higher requirements than the EU directive requires. Therefore, the same requirements are imposed on private operators as on public authorities. The main requirement of the proposed law is that digital services provided by a public operator through a technical solution should be available in accordance with the Accessibility Directive. The Web Accessibility Directive makes legislative regulation necessary. Since there is no existing law that meets the requirements of the Directive or where the provisions required naturally fit in, new regulations that are required should be brought together in a new law. It is important that the proposed law is technologically neutral as far as possible. This means that technological developments do not have to lead to regular changes. Legislation is therefore becoming more flexible and sustainable over time. This also points out several referral bodies in their referrals. For example, it is considered that the concept of a technical solution should be used. Detailed rules on the technical accessibility requirements to be applied should be laid down in Regulation or in regulatory provisions. The bill therefore proposes that the government or the authority that the government decides should make regulations on this point. To make the proposed law more technology neutral, the concept of digital service should be used. Digital service means services and information provided through a technical solution. The exception contained in the bill is criticised. It is within the school area that we want to make exceptions. It is important to point out that the bill refers to the rules of the School Act, that everyone should have equal access to education, and to the Discrimination Act. The aim of the Discrimination Act is to combat discrimination and in other ways promote equal rights and opportunities in the field of education regardless of, among other things, functional variations. There are therefore existing provisions to ensure that pupils with functional variations receive the support they need. It is also important to remember that the current requirements of the proposed law apply generally and not to any individual in need of special adaptations. Such general requirements, when applied to educational activities, may, on the contrary, hinder teaching. Therefore, it is appropriate to introduce the derogation in question. The Web Accessibility Directive requires Member States to take a series of measures on training, information, monitoring and reporting. Member States shall ensure that there is a supervisory authority and a follow-up procedure to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Directive. That is why we need to appoint a special authority. The government makes the assessment that the most appropriate solution is to gather competence in one and the same authority. The authority best suited for this purpose is the Authority for Digital Management. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-371	Madam President, I would like I think me and Denis Begic, S, are very much in agreement on these issues. However, there is one difference which means that today we do not land entirely the same. That is what Mr Denis was at the end of his speech. In this case, there is a dividing line between the individual and the collective or the general. Today, Swedish development is more and more moving in this direction: When building a new house, as much as possible should be taken into account from the beginning that everyone should be able to live in it. If you rebuild a road you should take as much account as possible of that everyone should be able to use it. If you build new vehicles, everyone should be able to use them. The basic idea, then, is that when we do the new thing, we make sure to think about accessibility at once. Because it will be much more expensive and much more administration if we are to do it afterwards. When it comes to the digital world – it's web accessibility that we're talking about here – it's even easier. If, in the digital world, we say right from the start that it should be fully accessible, the producers of apps, digital means etc. know what applies. They will then have different modules, voice control or other pieces that make it work. But it is precisely in the digital world that an exception is made for preschool and school. In fact, it means – I am a former school politician – that more administration and trial are being built in. There is, as the document says, legal right on an individual level. On the other hand, if we go to the two reservations that exist, which have some similarities with each other, we would generally call on those who produce new documents and new tools at school to do so. That way, we won't have to deal with the individual trial. I therefore still support our proposal.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, KD, for the question! First of all, as I mentioned, it is about the fact that there are already laws that ensure that these children are seen, if you are to put it that way. What is also important to remember is that these are minimum requirements that we are currently setting. Perhaps there will be more administration with the proposal that you have in your reservation. Today, technology is on its way very quickly. I mentioned that it should be technology neutral, as the government has also mentioned. This means that technology may develop quite quickly in order for these things to be done. It is also important to remember that the consultative bodies, including Örebro University, do not exclude higher education from this. Making exceptions would hinder students in performing better. When we implement this law, it is important for us to think about what is the next step and how to move forward. I have read the referrals that have come, including from the Swedish National Agency for Education and others, who believe that this is a good exception for so long.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-380	Madam President, I would like I have also looked at the various referrals. As I said, I have been a school politician for a long time. It is in the nature of the school that you want as little administration as possible. If exceptions are not introduced, it could be seen as more work, that is, more administration. I have great respect for those who have landed differently than we have. The catch is I think you're right, Denis Begic. Technology is progressing so fast right now that we will slowly but surely drift away from the individual to that most of it is built in from the beginning. It also makes it very strange to exclude something that is self-evident, namely that preschool and school should have accessibility and that we make this requirement. Now we will suddenly think that we are making demands on accessibility for everyone else, but precisely in preschool and school we refer to the individual examination. I just think it's a mistake.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-382	Madam President, I would like It is precisely essential administrative functions, which Magnus Jacobsson mentioned earlier, that the school system has opinions on. I think that progress will eventually go more in that direction. But right now I think it is important that we implement this. We have laws that ensure that children with functional variations receive individual trials. That's what we're gonna use for so long. That is why I still support the proposal in the report.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-383	Madam President, I would like Accessibility is an important democracy issue. Accessibility is about all people regardless of functional variation having access to society, for example to physical places but also to information. Lack of accessibility creates obstacles, what we call disability. The National Board of Health and Welfare defines disability as a limitation that a disability entails for a person in relation to the environment. Thus disability is caused by the gap that can exist between the individual's abilities and the demands of the environment. Accessibility is an important prerequisite for participation, which is ultimately a democracy issue. We therefore welcome the Environmental Party Act on Accessibility to Digital Public Service implementing the EU Web Accessibility Directive, which aims to make public operators' websites and mobile applications more accessible to users, especially for people with disabilities. The Web Accessibility Directive is a minimum directive and the Government has chosen to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Web Accessibility Directive. In addition to public operators, therefore, private operators operating with public funding in certain areas are also included, and can therefore be compared with a public operator in contact with the citizen. This is mainly about private actors engaged in professional activities in health care and education. Of course, they also need to provide available digital service. The main requirement of the proposed law is that the digital service provided by a public operator through a technical solution under the control of the public operator should be available in accordance with accessibility requirements. In accordance with the underlying directive, the government of the new law proposes a number of exceptions to the scope of the law, as has been mentioned. For example, under the Web Accessibility Directive, websites and mobile applications belonging to public service broadcasting companies are not covered, which means that Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio are exempted from the provisions of the Act. At the same time, the government points out that requirements for accessibility in this area should be regulated by sector-specific legislation. It is also proposed to exempt certain operators from the scope of the new law if the provisions of the law can be regarded as unduly burdensome for them. The accompanying measures raise some concerns about the derogation proposed in the new law for digital services in the school sector which do not relate to the essential administrative functions of an activity. With regard to this exception, the Government states in the bill both the School Act's provisions that everyone should have access to education and the Discrimination Act, the purpose of which is to combat discrimination and in other ways promote equal rights and opportunities in the field of education regardless of, for example, a disability. Thus, in the Government's view, there are existing provisions that are well suited to ensure that pupils with some form of disability receive the support they need. I, too, am concerned that acceptance of these reservations would entail too much administration, but also that the use of digital tools used in schools would actually be impeded. Here we need to look at the needs of each child, each individual, for an individualized teaching to be able to assimilate information. The Transport Committee, of which I am a member, proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a law on accessibility to digital public services. The committee considers that the new law is balanced and that it will improve access to digital services provided by public operators. We in the Green Party are therefore in favour of the committee's proposal that the Parliament adopt the Government's proposal for a law on accessibility to digital public services and rejection of the two reservations.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-392	Madam President, I would like There is a lack of housing in a majority of the country's municipalities. The worst is the lack of housing in the metropolitan regions. Those most affected are low income earners, young adults and new arrivals. The housing shortage limits people's ability to take a job, study and be established in Swedish society. This has a negative impact on individual freedom, economic growth and the development of society. This leads to increased gaps and segregation. Much of what is being built has been too expensive for large groups in society. In short, there is a lack of housing that people can afford to demand. There is, above all, a shortage of rental apartments with reasonable rents. According to Boverket, an average of 67 000 new dwellings are needed each year until 2025. During the last parliamentary term, at the initiative of the Left Party, the Riksdag adopted a goal that means that at least half of the dwellings built should be rental apartments. In order to achieve the objective of the Riksdag, municipalities need to assume their housing responsibility. This is particularly true of the municipalities located in the country's growth areas where the need for new housing is greatest. At the same time, the housing shortage is a regional issue. For example, labour market regions are now larger than their own municipalities, and there are often advantages in discussing land use across municipalities. The responsibility of municipalities for housing supply therefore needs to be coordinated, so that all municipalities in one region contribute to building the necessary housing. Regional spatial planning can play an important role here. Madam President, I would like The Left Party shares the Government's view that the provision of housing can be better served by regional spatial planning. However, the Left Party would have preferred the government to have given regional planning greater opportunities to influence the housing construction of municipalities. Housing supply is a regional issue, and all municipalities in a county must contribute to building up the housing shortage. In order to get more municipalities to assume their housing responsibility, clearer government and regional governance are needed. That is why the Left Party has further positions and proposals on the issue of regional planning in our reservations. Madam President, I would like Today, 90 per cent of the population live in a municipality with a housing shortage. It is not reasonable that rich, prosperous municipalities only build expensive residential apartments and leave the concern of rentals to poorer municipalities within the same region. Many municipalities have not been able to adapt housing construction to population development and have therefore not assumed their housing responsibility. There are a number of explanations. This may, for example, be due to poor market conditions or a lack of municipal land. Malmö is an example; I remember when I was in the municipal council there and they sold land every time we had a council meeting. This may also be due to a political unwillingness to build. Vaxholm in Stockholm, for example, has built 27 rental apartments during 20 00 – 2017. In Danderyd 95 have been built and in Vallentuna 112. It can be compared to Upplands Väsby, which has built 1,178 rental apartments. The same is true in the Skåne region: Lomma built during the same period, 2000 – 2017, a total of 122 rentals and Vellinge 245, compared with Malmö, for example, which built 8 997 rental apartments. For municipal politicians, housing policy can be difficult to manoeuvre as it has become increasingly market-driven and fully market-funded. At the same time, municipalities have the planning monopoly, often a certain land holding and the utility housing companies to control – those that remain. The Left Party wants to create firmer housing-building structures that enable all municipalities to assume their responsibility for building up the housing shortage. This requires both state aid to the municipalities that need it and state sanctioning opportunities in cases where municipalities do not contribute, but pass on responsibility for housing to others. The Government proposes that regional spatial planning take place in Stockholm County and Skåne County. According to the government's assessment, regional spatial planning should be introduced in more counties when the needs and conditions for such planning exist. However, the Housing Planning Committee has proposed that regional spatial planning should take place in all counties. A number of referrals were in favour of this, including the Tenants' Association and Sabo. The Left Party, like the Committee, Tenants' Association and Sabo, believes that regional spatial planning should take place in all counties. There is a need for inter-municipal and regional collaboration to a greater or lesser extent throughout the country. In growth areas it may be a matter of coordinating for an increased housing building where all municipalities take responsibility. In municipalities with a declining population, it can instead be about adapting existing buildings and other facilities to new needs. In addition, some municipalities lack competence and resources for certain tasks and functions. For these municipalities, regional coordination can provide good support. Madam President, I would like There is a clear need for inter-municipal and regional interaction that does not seem to be achieved on a voluntary basis. The need for coordination between different types of planning applies regardless of where in the country the planning takes place. There is therefore no reason to limit the mission to certain parts of the country, as the government proposes. The Left Party believes that regional spatial planning should be mandatory in all counties. According to the Government's proposal, the regional plan should only be indicative and not binding. The Left Party believes that regional spatial planning should make it possible to make sharper demands that all municipalities within a region contribute to meeting the housing needs of the whole region. Without such requirements, the Government's proposal for regional spatial planning risks becoming ineffective. A clear example is the current regional development plan for the Stockholm region, RUFS. Despite solid work with RUFS, the basic problem remains that some municipalities in the county do not build new dwellings sufficiently, as there is no binding housing target. This is also confirmed by Stockholm Municipality, which, in its response to the Government's proposal, emphasises the need to get municipalities that do not contribute sufficiently to regional development to take greater responsibility. If the regional plan is only indicative, some municipalities will be able to continue as before and build few dwellings, in particular rental apartments. This exacerbates the housing shortage throughout the region, which has a negative impact on individual freedom, the growth of the economy and the development of society. In order to ensure that all municipalities in a region assume their housing responsibility in a regional housing market, a binding housing target should be introduced in regional housing planning indicating how many housing needs to be built in a region. The construction should then be divided between the municipalities of the region. This gives all municipalities in a region the opportunity to take responsibility for the housing shortage and build the required housing. Half of new production must be owned in accordance with Parliament's objectives. Madam President, I would like The government's legislative proposal completely lacks the possibility for the state to impose requirements on the municipalities of a region to build housing. Nor does the bill contain any proposals for sanctions against those municipalities that do not build housing. The Left Party believes that the state should be given the opportunity to impose housing on municipalities according to the binding regional housing planning, with particular regard to the national objective that at least half of the dwellings built should be rental apartments. At the same time, sanctions can be imposed on municipalities which, despite this, do not build in accordance with regional housing planning. Like Delegation Bostad in 2030, we believe that it should be costly for municipalities that do not fulfil their housing responsibility. Madam President, I would like In order to enable municipalities to achieve the housing targets in regional housing planning and to build the housing they have been allocated through the county administrative board and county council, the state should provide financial support. During the last term of office, the Government and the Left Party introduced extensive investment aid for the construction of rental rights and a targeted state grant for increased housing construction, the so-called municipal bonus. These aids should be increased and improved. In addition, top government loans for new production of rentals should be introduced. The state should be able to assist municipalities in achieving the objectives, and in particular funding support for new production of rental rights should be given priority. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. Madam President, I would like To conclude: It is time for a new housing policy in which the state, the municipality and the region will assume their responsibilities and implement what is a legal right for every person living in this country. The government should therefore come back with proposals whereby the State is given the right to impose on municipalities the housing allocated to them under the regional housing planning, with particular regard to the national objective that at least half of the housing built should be rental rights, and that municipalities which do not comply with such an injunction may be sanctioned. Madam President, I would like I agree with all the Left Party reservations, but for time to come, I only support the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-410	Madam President, I would like Today is the first civil committee debate for this term of office and also my first debate in the role of chairman of the committee. We are here today to debate the government proposal A new regional planning. This is part of the work of the Red Green Government during the previous term of office to strengthen the toolbox that municipalities and others need to get started and keep up the housing building we need. Part of this work has been to give county boards the task of prioritising housing construction. The housing shortage is a fact, although more housing is currently being built and completed than in a very long time in Sweden. It is now our task to ensure that we keep up the building act we have actually come up with, so that even more housing is built and even more people have a home. I think that the government proposal A new regional planning is good, and it is also extremely important. It is an important tool for municipalities to be able to take responsibility for the planning we need to build our future societies from an overall perspective. It is societies that should be good, inclusive and sustainable from an economic as well as a social and ecological perspective. These are communities where we dare to see what is happening on the other side of the municipal border and jointly in a region plan for the housing needed and for the region to grow. The proposal proposes to introduce new provisions on regional spatial planning into the Planning and Construction Act. Such planning is proposed to be introduced in Stockholm County and Skåne County. The government also opens up for further counties to do this type of planning. The county council becomes a regional planning agency responsible for regional spatial planning within its county. The tasks of the Regional Planning Agency include the adoption of the Regional Plan. The plan shall provide guidance for decisions on outline plans, detailed plans and site rules. The regional plan shall specify, inter alia, how the plan has been taken into account and how it has been coordinated with other national, regional and municipal plans and programmes. The county council of the counties concerned is given a number of new tasks with the proposal. Two of these are to promote actions that can help to meet the long-term need for housing and to promote actions that can contribute to reducing the county's climate impact and its effects. The Government also proposes that the county council be tasked with promoting efforts that can contribute to meeting the county's long-term needs for housing for all parts of the population. The Government's proposal that the county council should work for efforts that contribute to reducing the county's climate impact does not replace the county administrative board's responsibility for coordinating regional efforts to reduce climate impact. Instead, the purpose of the task that the government is now proposing to apply to the county council is that this will be another arena where regional spatial planning can contribute to a reduction of the county's climate impact. For example, the county council, through its knowledge and dialogue, can create the conditions for increased use of public transport and increased coordination of freight transport. It can also relate to structural conditions for infrastructure, land use and settlement and how these can be used to create transport efficiency. Another measure may be to raise the issue of regional cycle paths. This is something that requires coordinated action at municipal level. Other measures available to the regional and local levels are the creation of regional platforms to discuss how natural resources such as wind, sun and water can be exploited. Yesterday, SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, published on its website a debate post in which both President Lena Micko and Vice-President Anders Knape expressed concern that legislation on new regional planning will weaken local democracy. Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that the legislation we are debating here today should not be seen as a threat to local democracy. Rather, it should be seen as a help to all the municipalities around our country that together need to work with long-term, comprehensive and sustainable planning of our societies. I agree with the Bureau of the SKL in their argument that there is a great will among the municipalities in the country to ensure that we build more housing. On the other hand, I do not agree with the conclusion that the municipalities are already planning enough housing. There are municipalities that are doing a brilliant job, but there are also municipalities that need to do more. I think this will be an important tool for all municipalities to play their part. In committee, a broad majority has agreed on an announcement to the government. We want the government to take the necessary initiatives for regional spatial planning to cover more counties than Skåne and Stockholm. It feels good, because I think it is an important way forward to ensure that we build housing throughout Sweden and that we in the regions work together for this. I therefore call for the proposal contained in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-428	Madam President, I would like This will in part sound like a repetition of what Emma said. However, we belong to the same government, and that may of course be evident in the speech. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU2 report to be approved. The proposal includes new provisions on regional spatial planning in the Planning and Construction Act. The amendment of the law and the proposal for a declaration endorsed by the committee on regional spatial planning in the Planning and Construction Act is an important step in achieving more uniformity in the country for such a necessary review. Regional spatial planning shall cover issues relevant to the physical environment affecting two or more municipalities in a county. Such planning should be carried out in Stockholm County and Skåne County, according to the proposal. However, a united committee also believes that the government should take the necessary initiatives for more counties to be included in regional spatial planning. There is really no difference, but it must be based on the fact that there are also conditions for it. The county council will be responsible for regional spatial planning within its county. The task of adopting, inter alia, a regional plan shall include setting out the basic features of the use of land and water areas and guidelines for the location of buildings and construction works relevant to the county. The regional plan shall also provide guidance for decisions on outline plans, detailed plans and site rules. This is an important part of coordination and an overview. In addition, a regional plan will show, among other things, how the plan has been taken into account and how it has been coordinated with the regional development strategy, the regional transport infrastructure county plan, traffic supply programmes, municipal guidelines for housing supply and national and other regional and municipal objectives, plans and programmes of importance for sustainable development in the county. It shall also state how the plan is intended to be implemented. We agree with the government's assessment that regional spatial planning should contribute to better housing and sustainable development. We see that the need for housing is still very large and that cooperation between municipalities is required in order for it to be a good housing supply. A single municipality cannot solve this problem; we must work together. The fact that the rules on regional spatial planning are brought together in PBL makes it easier to coordinate the municipal responsibility for land and water planning under PBL, on the one hand, and the task of regional actors to investigate and plan issues of relevance to the county's physical environment, on the other. In the long run, increased coordination should help improve the efficiency of planning processes and improve the exchange of both public and private investment. This should lead to improved spatial planning from both a sustainability and a socio-economic perspective. In the legislative case, it has also been assessed that previously cited reasons for non-binding regional plans remain valid. In essence, a binding regional plan reduces feasibility by not leaving room for different priorities and emerging issues in subsequent planning. It risks becoming rigid, and the regional plan may become a difficult obstacle instead of the means it is intended to be. The Housing Planning Committee and several consultation bodies have also stated that regional plans should continue to be indicative. In conclusion, Madam President, we Social Democrats are in favour of the new legislation. We believe that it will facilitate future planning of housing and infrastructure, which is urgently needed to achieve the objectives that I believe we have in common across block borders. More housing and a functioning infrastructure are needed. Regional plans will also strengthen the future development potential of different regions in a better and clearer way. To conclude, Madam President, I would once again like to endorse the proposal in the committee's report.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-442	Madam President, I would like We broadly welcome the Government's proposal for a new regional planning for greater coordination and, above all, better housing provision. With growing regions, investment in infrastructure development in the coming years, a strongly growing population as a result of migration and demands for sustainable development, a more holistic approach is needed with coordinated action in social planning. Combating the housing shortage, after the last four years getting a housing policy worthy of the name and making it easier for cities and communities across our country to develop and expand is today one of our most important societal challenges. The braking of housing construction is alarming. Today, we are seeing a housing shortage that mainly affects those who find it most difficult to enter the housing market, a housing shortage that hampers growth, entrepreneurship and integration and makes it more difficult to deal with migration challenges. Any reform that significantly simplifies and shortens the work of municipalities with detailed plans is welcome. Unfortunately, little has happened in recent years. The Government Löfven has been remarkably passive in its efforts to develop proposals to facilitate housing construction. However, we from the Moderates and the Alliance have always been clear that we welcome all initiatives, big and small, which help to facilitate housing construction and to enable cities and communities to grow. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by also touching on what Emma Hult mentioned. It is of course important that regional planning should not delay or complicate the planning and implementation of municipalities in any way. Above all, it must not pre-empt or in any way restrict municipal self-government. Like Emma Hult, I have taken note of the comments and comments made by the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. I want to make it clear, Madam President, that it is essential for us that regional planning does not lead to local self-government in any way. If there were to be a legal application which in any way goes in this direction, which I do not believe, we would not only be open to but would like legislation to be reviewed immediately. But as I said, we do not think so, but the hope is that it will facilitate regional planning and become a tool for municipalities, county councils and regions to increase housing construction across the board. Should any other application and interpretation arise, we will, in an appropriate way, initiate a review of the legislation.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-448	Madam President, I would like A new regional planning is a proposal from the government that we Swedish democrats support. We also support and have exercised that the proposal for regional planning should extend beyond Skåne and Stockholm County and apply to the whole of Sweden. We have got a united committee behind this work, and of course we are happy about that. I myself was on the housing planning committee that laid the foundation for the bill and delivered its results in 2015, so I am well acquainted with the work behind the proposal. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we are pleased that the bill has now come to Parliament. We would of course have liked it to have gone faster, because we think this is a big and important piece of the puzzle in order to be able to get an extended housing building started and facilitate the possibility of building housing in Sweden. We also think that this should have been a more prioritised proposal than many of the other proposals and proposals that have come from the government. Nevertheless, we must be satisfied that we are standing here today. There is a need for a synchronisation of several policy areas in Sweden today, such as traffic, business, growth, financing and consensus regarding housing construction, infrastructure and much more. Here we are pleased that the regional bodies, the county councils, are tasked with presenting regional planning for all municipalities together and that all municipalities together also become part of the planning, so that we can come up with the important work of planning for infrastructure, business, growth, financing and consensus, as I mentioned. There has been far too much policy on pipes; this has been looked at in its own area. The Government's proposal now provides for greater coordination in this area. It also provides a better overall perspective and opportunities for municipalities and regions to co-plan where to draw infrastructure and how to put public transport in order to create better growth. We know, for example, that very many municipalities work with commuting municipalities into metropolitan regions, and there regional planning is extremely important. This means that we can create better conditions for municipalities, small and large, where everyone gets the benefit of planning together. This also strengthens the municipalities. Unless otherwise, it strengthens the municipalities in what is much today a lack of local authority, namely the possibility of having qualified physical and strategic planners. Here the region can strengthen the municipalities in their work and create better conditions. We also believe that it can benefit the municipalities very financially that they can use the data they develop in regional planning when planning locally for public transport, infrastructure, housing construction and much more. It is therefore a positive economic effect in many respects. It can also mean significant cost savings when using a form of co-investment in water, sewage, energy and many other areas affecting municipalities and regions. I agree with many speakers here today. And I am pleased that many speakers here today have been so clear that if there were to be a problem, as Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils claim, that this would affect municipal self-determination in the construction of housing and planning, they are prepared to make proposals to adjust it so that we do not end up in such a situation, because it is nothing that the Swedish Democrats want to see. We do not want regional plans to be made for municipalities to build housing. It must be the municipalities' own responsibility in the long term to know for themselves where it needs to be built housing and other things. Here we Swedish democrats are very clear in our position. I do not believe that the concerns of the SKL will come true, but if they come true, we are prepared to join the other parties and adjust the proposal. In these words, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats support the bill. I therefore support it.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-459	Madam President, and those who have just left the gallery! Where we live, where we work and how we travel are factors that affect the construction of society. Now that we are discussing how, where and how fast high-speed railways are going to transport people, it is a sign of what we usually call regional enlargement. The opposition to the creation of larger regions does not necessarily mean denying the existence and development of functional regions. Growing labour market regions should not be hindered by existing county boundaries. For better or worse, our metropolitan regions are having an increasing and wider impact on their surroundings. When the OECD, the Organisation for Co-operation and Development, defines a Megaregion of Western Scandinavia, it extends from Oslo in the north to Hamburg in the south. In this case, an infrastructure effort linking it would involve investment in the rail system from Oslo all the way down to Malmö – Copenhagen, the removal of bottlenecks of various kinds through Denmark and Germany and a possible tunnel under Fehmarn Belt between Denmark and Germany. In the midst of this giant, tiny banana is my home country of Halland, which is growing rapidly and which will soon have to plan for a population of half a million. We have also recently joined a cooperation organisation called Greater Copenhagen. Efforts such as these may be visionary and abstract, but at the same time there is a development, whether we like it or not. Instead of slowing down this, then, we must create the tools needed to steer development together. The regions are when they agree a stronger voice against the state. The time it takes for us to work commuting to Gothenburg determines how we travel on the railway we have with many remaining bottlenecks. The influence of the regions on how the state prioritises investment is weak, and the unpredictability means that already decided major investments, in the Western Swedish package, for example, have not been anchored with the citizens of the municipality that will be affected by these jobs. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it is particularly important that we talk about the need for stronger regional planning. This is the only way to take control of the development politically and ensure that the local infrastructure is in keeping with the fact that all municipalities within a region can take part in the development, that we have a reduced environmental impact with efficient transport and that we can plan for demographic development with the need for new schools, care, care for the elderly, housing and drinking water supply. Large start-ups should not be hindered by the lack of infrastructure and a training system that meets skills needs. All together are strong reasons why we need to develop the regional planning tool. Madam President, I would like It is good that the two functional labour market regions Skåne and Stockholm are allowed to take the lead so that other counties can follow. With the decision that Parliament will take today on the way forward for more counties, I am pleased, as the representative of West Sweden, that the third labour market region in Sweden, Gothenburg, is not prevented from continuing in the already existing coordination association GR. Of course, I am in favour of the committee's proposal because it contains a declaration in which a largely unanimous committee wants regional planning to be introduced in more counties when there are needs and conditions and that the government that will take up office will take the initiative to develop the reform in this direction either day. For the Center Party, it is an important indication that this does not in any way affect or restrict the municipal plan monopoly in the way the Left Party wishes with its second reservation, where according to plan economic principles the state will force all the country's 290 municipalities under the threat of sanctions to live up to binding housing targets – moreover, with the requirement that in all of these, 50 per cent tenancy rights be built. Madam President, I would strongly urge that this be rejected. One of the government's appointed investigators, Nooshi Dadgostar of the Left Party, proposes expropriation of private land in order to meet such goals. The Red-Green Government allowed this proposal to be referred to, and it is now receiving well-deserved criticism. Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not belong in the broad housing agreement that is needed. We can see that today when we hear Momodou Jallow say that it is time for a new housing policy. Let's hope it's not the Left Party's. Finally, this is an area of housing policy where there is otherwise a consensus. The need for reforms to improve the functioning of the housing market and to increase construction must be restored as soon as possible.
i-9e2d1374ccb888b9-474	Madam President, I would like We are all painfully aware that the number of homes built in Sweden is too small. That the building act needs to be increased in order to guarantee everyone a home, I think we agree. I also believe that we agree that we did too little during the last parliamentary term and that during this parliamentary term we have a common responsibility to step up the pace. A more comprehensive planning across the country would benefit the situation, and a good start is the work and planning already done regionally in various places around the country. This is done voluntarily and in different ways, which should be taken up as a good example. I am most familiar with the Gothenburg region's work and am very happy with the joint work that is being done to coordinate planning in the region. I am a strong supporter of decisions to be taken at the lowest effective level. It is therefore natural, for example, that the distribution of parental days should be determined in each family and not at state level, that the cost of va can be both decided and paid at municipal level, and that environmental objectives should be taken at state or even EU level and not be up to each person. As far as spatial planning is concerned, the need for greater coordination between municipalities has increased. The option of not coordinating spatial planning can have quite significant consequences for Sweden. The increased complexity of society has meant that account needs to be taken of ever larger geographical areas and that cooperation across administrative borders and planning areas has become increasingly important. For example, trends such as urbanisation and globalisation but also faster transport, as some speakers have mentioned, have meant that people and goods move across larger geographical areas. With regional spatial planning, local planning issues can be addressed in a wider context. Regional spatial planning strengthens the conditions for coordinating different levels of decision-making and policies by making important structures and links between these decisions visible. I also believe that opening municipal and state geodata, all planning data such as open data and a fully digital regional planning process are essential in the future in order to achieve effective regional spatial planning. Today's decision makes us come a bit on our way but not all the way. I also believe that this would strengthen the individual's potential for influence, transparency and planning. The committee has previously supported the government's draft legislation on regional spatial planning in the report. The Christian Democrats agree with the Government's assessment of the importance of facilitating coordination between municipal responsibilities according to the Planning and Construction Act for planning of soil and water areas and the regional actors' mission to investigate and plan issues of importance for the county's physical environment. As the government has pointed out, such coordination contributes to improved spatial planning. We also share the government's assessment that regional spatial planning should be introduced in more counties when there is a need and prerequisite for such planning and that it is important to strive for uniform regulation of regional spatial planning throughout the country. For me, this means studying the coordination that already works in regions such as Gothenburg, Västra Götaland, Örebro County and Blekinge County. Coordination does not need to be done the same everywhere in the country, but the result must be the focus. In the context of this work, the government should have a direct and continuous dialogue with stakeholders in the country. It should be taken into account in the work that in some places there are coordination associations with responsibility for regional planning and environmental and urban development. The government should shed more light on how these existing coordination associations can continue to operate in favour of spatial planning in the region. We Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal.
