i-b2896e0a90812e35-2	Mr President, I would like to It's about integration. It is about jobs, about education, about activity requirements during the start-up period and about social information. Jobs are of course in focus – unemployment but also labour shortages. Although unemployment has decreased during our government period, approximately 350 000 people are unemployed in Sweden. There's too many. We are expanding the education system, such as vocational adults and polytechnics, and not least we are building up teacher training. We need more teachers in our country. For us social democrats, it is obvious to invest in education when the biggest obstacle for companies to continue to grow is that there is a shortage of skilled labour. We have high unemployment, but at the same time there are 100,000 jobs that cannot be filled because of lack of knowledge. We can't have that. The lack of labour to take the job vacancies shows how important it is to equip people with the right skills so that they can take the jobs that exist and the jobs that are expected to emerge. It must also be easier to change careers, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to There will be no more hiring by reducing ordinary people's wages, but training, education and training are required. If there is a shortage of drivers, it does not help to reduce wages, but it is much better if we give more opportunities to take a truck licence. If we need more cooks, it does not help to lower wages, but we need to make sure that more people can cook. Last week I visited industries in Skåne. There was no entrepreneur during those visits who wanted to discuss the problems with the pay situation. No, the problem they wanted to discuss was how to ensure that more people train and choose programs so that these companies have people to hire. Companies need trained people so they have people to hire. This is a prerequisite for the industry to be able to accept the orders. Of course, everyone who can work should work. Unemployment among foreign born children is high, and a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language is one of the problems. Action is needed, and education is, as I said, the key to the labour market. The start-up jobs are based on a combination of jobs and education and mean that you can get a job, get a salary according to collective agreements and at the same time be able to supplement with training if necessary. We Social Democrats welcome the fact that the social partners agree on a model that will make it easier for newcomers and the long-term unemployed to enter the labour market. Here we hope, Mr President, to see at least 10 000 jobs in the future. With a more effective system of subsidised employment, more people will be able to enter the labour market. A simpler and clearer regulatory framework is welcomed by employers and not least by employment intermediaries. The knowledge boost will be expanded and will cover nearly 100 000 training opportunities during the next term of office. 100 000 training opportunities are needed to enable people to take the jobs that exist. Mr President, I would like to I'll get back to education, because that's the key. It deserves to be said over and over again. Those with knowledge not only enter the labour market but also stand firmer. Getting a job is important but also that you are safe at work – that you have a job that you can trust and that gives the opportunity to start your life and a salary that provides the prerequisite to write rental contracts and people food on the table. So it is not just a question of getting one foot into the labour market, it is a question of standing firmly in the labour market. Order and management, collective agreements and job security must be the basis for all employees in the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to The establishment must be faster. We are taking major steps in the right direction. For the new arrivals who arrived in a municipality in 2007, it took eight years before half had a job. Now half of them are in work after five years. Among newly arrived men who arrived in 2013, it took three years until half of them were in work. This does not mean that we have succeeded, and that does not mean at all that we are satisfied, but that means that we are on the right track. Fast track of shortage of jobs and additional welfare services for newly arrived and long-term unemployed are measures that play a role. Even if we wish that there would be far more covered, we can see today that 12 000 people have an extra service. That's good. Swedish, language training and community information via study associations and folk high schools has accelerated the establishment. The requirement to participate in the training you need to become employable is an important part of a faster and more effective establishment. Linking the establishment allowance to active participation in assigned actions is reasonable. The demands on the individual are clear, but they are also the demands that access to training or labour market measures be offered. Through politics, we shall open doors. When the doors are open, it is the individual's responsibility and obligation to step in. Foreign born women have low participation in the labour market. That's not good. It is not good for women, it is not good for families and it is not good for society. Women's participation in the labour market must be increased. It is not only about everyone who can work to work, it is also about our demographic development that places great demands on everyone to contribute. Much remains to be done in terms of women's participation in the labour market in general. Women work involuntary part-time more often than men do. More women than men are insecure employment. Women's income is significantly lower than men's. Work towards higher participation of women in the labour market does not only apply to those born abroad, although the challenge is even greater there. Many municipalities have fast track to help bring forward the welfare workers of the future. There are many good examples. There are not only good examples in municipalities and county councils, but there are also examples in industry, for example when it comes to assembly, welding and CNC staff. Getting a job, a livelihood, is crucial for successful integration. But, as I said, it is also about a functioning labour market. It's about our Swedish model. Our Swedish model, which has served us well, should include everyone, not just some. Collective agreements, job security and order and order – that's the Swedish model, just like the person who can work will work. We contribute each one according to his ability and we pay according to his viability. When we need society's efforts, we are sorted not according to income but according to needs. Mr President, I would like to Although our debate is entitled Integration, this is about labour market policy in general, about education and about ways to work. It is also about gender equality and our Swedish model. We want a better and more equal Sweden, not greater divides. The Swedish model should be developed, not phased out. With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 10, rejecting the other reservations and otherwise agreeing to the proposal contained in the report.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-23	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the motion report on integration, which is one of Sweden's most important challenges, perhaps the biggest challenge here and now. The biggest problem we have with integration today is that it takes an average of eight years before half of the new arrivals have some form of employment. We heard something else from the speaker's seat just now. In my speech, I do not intend to address all parts of the report, but I will make a few points. We have heard the government beating its chest, as the report also shows, telling us how well Sweden is doing. Yes, it does. Because we're in a boom. Something else would be strange. The serious thing is that things aren't going well for everyone. The part of the labour force that is furthest from the labour market is not doing well, despite the boom. And then last autumn we see something so serious as the employment rate of foreign born is falling. It's serious. As I said, it still takes an unreasonable amount of time for newcomers to enter employment. Integration has worked far too badly for a long time, and the labour market is becoming increasingly two-way. The government beats its chest, and the report states that their policy has produced results. I don't see it that way. It is a bit remarkable to say so in view of these results. The government has carried out emergency work and additional services. We have just heard about the extra services, and the job of preparedness has been discussed many times in this House. They turned into a flop. There weren't as many jobs as it was promised. In addition, according to Statskontoret's calculations, more than half of these jobs go to people with post-secondary education, and about 30 per cent go to those with upper secondary education. There won't be many percent left. Then there are additional services, which have now increased. But they have long been few, nor have they gone to those who are absolutely the furthest away from the labour market, but to those who have upper secondary education. So this is happening in a boom where the labour market is screaming for people. Integration has worked badly for a long time. We can't go on like that. This calls for strong reforms. We have not seen any structural reforms from the government. I'm worried about what's gonna happen when we get into a recession. I believe that the power to do something good with your life, to do right by yourself and to get a job is in everyone's hands. But Sweden is no undemanding community. Then we must ensure that the right conditions exist. Within the framework of integration, we need to make much clearer demands on those who come to Sweden to build a life here. The new regulatory framework in the area of establishment, which began to apply at the end of the year, is good. It is good that there are clearer demands on the individual, but that is not enough. The Alliance believes that the activity requirements should increase further during the start-up period, and we see that even more measures are needed. The link between participation in operations and the right to compensation needs to be strengthened, and the committee has also made a declaration on this to the government. As I said, the problem of integration is that it takes too long for new arrivals to enter employment. The Alliance believes that the efforts must come early in the asylum period – where we are apparently in agreement with the Government – and that the skills mapping should take place directly in connection with coming to Sweden and seeking asylum. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe that there needs to be an obligation to integrate. This includes training requirements, language training requirements, social orientation with a test, individual plan in SFI and more, in order to obtain a residence permit. Integration is more than just a job. We also need to talk about values. The government should have ensured, among other things, that there is an easily accessible and user-friendly information material for newcomers on human rights and freedoms, democracy, gender equality in Sweden and more. Since the introduction of the establishment reform in December 2010, there have been some improvements around Sweden. But it looks a little different, and in some municipalities it doesn't work. We also know that Arbetsförmedlingen, which is the authority responsible for the establishment, does not work. We believe that for those municipalities that would like to take over responsibility for the integration of new arrivals, that would be a good way to go. The government parties want to continue waiting for investigations and the Swedish Public Employment Service's change journey. But we have done so for too long. I also believe that it is time to phase out the Employment Service, and in any case allow the municipalities that want to take this responsibility to do so. We need to make it easier to enter the labour market, and a broad range of reforms is needed in order to seriously improve integration. The Moderates want to improve the driving forces for work, we want to introduce special apprenticeships and we want to replace Arbetsförmedlingen with a new organisation. We want work to pay off. But we have a government that has made it less profitable to work. On Monday, the agreement reached between the parties and the Government on establishment was presented. I welcome the fact that the parties have reached this agreement and have stated that a new form of employment is needed. But there are shortcomings, among other things that the state should pay 10 000 SEK to each individual who has this employment, i.e. pay for the person to go to work. That's not the way to go. Moreover, the proposal only applies to companies with collective agreements. I'm critical of that. This should apply to all companies in Sweden. It is good that the parties have taken hold of this. We must make it easier and cheaper to hire this group which is far from the labour market. The Alliance has a suggestion: in entry jobs. Our proposal is still better. This would apply to newly arrived and young people up to 23 years of age without an upper secondary school degree and would enable employment with a significantly reduced wage cost for all companies in Sweden. Entry-in employment would make it possible to learn the job at work. Mr President, I would like to I conclude by saying that I see what the government parties are writing in this report as largely agreeing with our and the Alliance's proposals, but they express it as waiting for an investigation or waiting for an investigation to be prepared. That's too bad. It's not enough. As I said at the outset, we have problems with integration here and now. It should not take eight years before half of the new arrivals come into employment. We must also tackle the exclusion of women born abroad in particular. We must break the trend that the employment rate of foreign born people is falling. We should have done that during the boom. In order for us to do this in a recession, all this had to be done right now. Mr President, I would like to Me and the Moderates are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 1 and 3. I also support the committee's proposal in paragraph 5.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-45	Mr President, I would like to Maybe Jessika Roswall and I can't agree on everything. However, I think it is reasonable to stick to the reality and statistics we have. Jessika Roswall says it takes eight years for half of these people to work. That was when the moderate-led government ruled. But it's changed. There are figures showing that, and I said so in my speech. For the sake of clarity, I can say it again: now half has a job after five years. For newly arrived men who arrived in 2013, it took three years before half of them were in work. I already said then, and I can say it again, that we are not satisfied. But it is certainly a step in the right direction. I don't know how fast Jessika Roswall thinks you could reverse the statistics. This is a problem with which we have lived both under the bourgeois government and under the Social Democratic-led government. I would like to talk to Mrs Roswall about another matter, namely the obligation to integrate. What do the Moderates think when they say integration duty? Should we send out a message with the values in some material, perhaps in paper form? I am thinking that perhaps we should produce information material on the Swedish model and share it. It would be good for Swedish politicians to see what model we have on the Swedish labour market. It's a model that has served us well. We could contribute that information material, Jessika Roswall. When it comes to start-up jobs and that it only applies to companies with collective agreements, I can make a comparison with handball; I come from a part of Sweden where it plays a lot of handball. We would never let a team into the series that didn't follow the rules. When we invest the state's money, is it reasonable that they go to companies that follow the rules of the Swedish labour market, who pay decent wages and who have the right conditions of employment? I think it is very reasonable that we should not waste tax money on anything else.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-51	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the numbers. I read the SCB numbers as recently as yesterday. Perhaps Annelie Karlsson thinks that things have improved when it comes to almost half. But the fact is that half means more than 50%, and then it takes eight years for half of them to have employment. As far as integration is concerned, it includes, as I said, training requirements, language training requirements, social orientation with tests, individual planning of SFIs and more. I think it is important that this is included in integration. Research shows that it is important to better integrate into society. Then there were the start-up jobs. Here I have to put a counter-question: do the Social Democrats think that a direct grant of SEK 10 000 to the individual is reasonable? I can't see it. I must also ask a question about complying with the rules of the game. Is it that Annelie Karlsson believes that all the companies, many small businesses, which do not have collective agreements do not comply with the rules of the Swedish labour market?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-55	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the closing. When companies in the labour market are without collective agreements but still comply with them, I have never understood why a collective agreement cannot be signed, if that is the key to obtaining the support that exists. I do not understand why collective agreements cannot be signed if they are said to be followed. Collective agreements are the guarantee that those who work receive contractual pay and the entire insurance package. The need for collective agreements in the Swedish labour market is great. There are many who are not covered by it today. There are problems in the labour market. Many people work part-time involuntarily. A lot of people sleep with their cell phone by the pillow and wait for it to plange so that you can get a job for maybe one or two days. Many people do not know whether they will be able to pay the rent next or next month. This order in the Swedish labour market concerns a great many people. I'm wondering if the Moderates don't see that problem. In the spirit that companies should not have to comply with collective agreements and not be orderly, people who are affected by the policies of Jessika Roswall and her party friends are ignored. You completely miss the point of the order that means that people are safe and can start their lives. Go out and meet people who work under those conditions! I'm from the trade. There it is full of people with loose jobs. Now you want to contribute to more people working in precarious employment. To comply with collective agreements and to see that companies sign them, that is order and order. It is the best integration in the Swedish labour market. That's when people can start their lives.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-60	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I don't know what to say. This debate and the report are about integration. I heard from Annelie Karlsson's speech that she wanted a broader labour market policy debate. I don't think it's the right way. But I would like to interpret it this way, which was also one of my points: the Social Democrats do not want to talk about the problem that we have, that is, integration. Instead, they try to add to me things that I don't stand for. Of course I protect the Swedish model. I am in favour of public safety in the labour market just as you are. To not dare to talk about the integration challenges but instead talk about Swedish trade I think is wrong.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-63	Mr President, I would like to I will begin where the last line was closed by stating that this is actually an integration debate. Every time we have this integration debate – once a year – I feel a little bit like I'm standing in my own little bubble. I think everyone can agree with that, even if you think different things. Every time, I tend to point out that the biggest problem I see with the attitude of the other parties is that it deals with the issue of integration as if it were a job issue on its own. We also heard this clearly in the two previous speeches that have been made from the speaker's seat. The Social Democrats said explicitly: Jobs, a little education, a little gender equality linked to jobs is what integration is all about. The Moderates also said a little explicitly that the biggest challenge is the time it takes to get to work. Personally, I would perhaps place the integration report in another committee. For me, integration is about having a society that holds together, a community where every person who is a citizen of our country feels that you are just that: you are part of a larger community. It is also about those who are here temporarily feeling that they are welcome into society and that they function and find their place. But it's not just about work. As long as you're focused there, we're going to fail. There are countless examples of people who certainly have employment or work but who in no way identify with our country or feel welcome here and have found their place. They are here because it is here that they have ended up, but they do not like and do not see Sweden as their home country. For me, integration is about weaving our citizens together. Work is, of course, part of security when you feel that you have found your place in society, that you have a meaningful employment and that you contribute to society and can support yourself. Supporting oneself is also an interesting key word. Both the Moderates and the Social Democrats have talked about the time it takes half to get to work. The statistics usually show that you have a job to go to someone or a few times a week, but it is not linked to that you are self-sufficient and feel that you have a safe place in society, unfortunately. We have heard the Social Democrats pay tribute to the latest agreement on start-up jobs, and we have heard the Moderates criticise the fact that a large part of this is based on the state paying for a larger proportion of the jobs. It is good and nice to hear from alliances that you reject the kind of subsidised employment that is aimed at certain groups but not at others. That is something we have been saying for a long time. We also want to make investments that on the surface may seem similar. We have been talking about apprenticeships for a long time, but there is, of course, the key that education should be aimed at all those who have not completed upper secondary education without any connection to whether or not they have recently arrived in the country and how long they have been unemployed or not. We see this as an educational initiative, as a way into the labour market. This is how you have to think if you want a society that holds together. Our integration efforts are scattered across all committees. It is a comprehensive policy to create better conditions, better infrastructure that weaves together country and city, better opportunities to work, travel and get local services wherever you live. It is about cultural initiatives that welcome people into society, which show that they are welcome and show how we live. It doesn't matter where you're from, but we'd like you to be one of us. It is clearly about labour market policy but at a general level to rebuild a strong Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I will not speak too much about this report. As usual, most of our positions are simply that we say no to the sort of proposals put forward by the other parties. Such proposals can never seem integrative as they are grounded in segregation. They are based on different views of groups in our society. However, I can note that there is one point, paragraph 5, where in this case the opposition – the government and the Left Party – has a reservation in which we have supported a proposal from the Alliance, but it is not a proposal that we really fully support. It is about compensation and requirements during the start-up period. We have a specific opinion which justifies why we have chosen to support the Alliance's proposals which, in practice, aim to tighten up the requirements for participation in activities, otherwise there may be an even more reduced start-up allowance. It is well known that we from the Swedish Democrats think the whole initiative is bad. It doesn't work, it puts group against group and it creates a strange order. Nevertheless, we have chosen to support a proposal which, at least a little, reduces the compensation that tax money is being wasted on in this case. I would also like to say a few words about our reservation 5, which I would also like to support. We have another reservation, which I naturally support, but I choose not to vote in favour of it in order to gain time for the vote. Reservation 5 deals with the reception and residence of newly arrived immigrants. It is known that for a few years, the government, with the support of some other parties, has introduced a mandatory residence law which allows all municipalities, whether or not they consider themselves capable of receiving new arrivals, to accept new arrivals of asylum seekers. That is not a reasonable position for us. First of all, it is the municipalities themselves, hence further down at the municipal level, who know what conditions they have. Secondly, coercion will never be a good basis for creating a welcoming and building human relationships. A person who knows that it is not in a particular municipality because they want to receive the person in question but because the state has forced the municipality to receive you will not feel very welcome. Citizens of such a municipality who feel that there is no housing, school or opportunity to give it and tell if it has been imposed on such a commitment will find it difficult to have confidence in the system. It is not a good basis for integrating people into a society. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 5 and highlight the need for real reflection on integration policy.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-84	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 3 in the report. One is from the Center Party and the other is alliance-common. We're discussing integration. To succeed in integration, jobs are key, says the Center Party. They are an important piece of the puzzle to cope with integration. I'll get back to you with other pieces later. Sweden is currently in a boom. Despite this, jobs do not grow to the extent that one would wish for them to benefit all people. When the government talks about the fine figures and that more jobs are growing, many people – thousands – do not recognize themselves in that description. For many, everyday life is about getting the money to be enough, wrestling with thoughts of being needed and not being allowed to contribute. This year, nearly 300 000 people will be unemployed and in a vulnerable position. This includes several groups, including new arrivals, the long-term unemployed and the disabled. Success in the job issue is the key to integration. The security of having a job is a good basis for getting into society. Sweden really has quite good conditions for successful integration. We see that companies very strongly demand labour. The economy is good, but unfortunately we do not succeed. During the government's time, we have seen that the split of Sweden has become larger. More and more people are in a vulnerable position. We also see that integration policy has failed. It takes far too long for people to get to work. Unfortunately, Sweden's integration policy has some deep flaws. In order not to deepen these problems, strong measures and reforms are needed. Reforms in the labour market are particularly needed for those people who have no longer educational background so that they get a way in. I have to start from the perspective of believing that this challenge can really be met. We must have an optimistic view of our ability to get people into work. All people can contribute, regardless of their background and whether they are born in Sweden or come from another country. In order for more new arrivals to get into work, they need to be encouraged to enter the labour market from the first day of their arrival in Sweden. A more functional labour market is needed, better ways to get into society are needed and newcomers need to learn Swedish faster. The labour market has three main areas where reforms are needed. The first is about matching, the second is about the cost of hiring and the third is that it has to pay off to work. Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying something about the match. Sweden has a paradoxical situation in the labour market with many unemployed, while companies are screaming for labour. The employment agency needs to be fundamentally redesigned. We need to better involve civil society and municipalities in the establishment process so that people can enter the labour market more quickly. There is also a need for shorter training packages and actions throughout the education system. We want people to be assessed from the first day when they come to Sweden because they can get to work faster. Mr President, I would like to The costs of hiring need to be reduced. We have heard this earlier in the debate, and then it was linked to the start-up jobs presented this week. Instead, the Centre Party and the Alliance believe in entry jobs, which would be a simpler form for companies to use to reduce costs and thus dare to take the step of hiring people who are far from the labour market and who have little work experience or a small network of contacts. Because we need to open the job door to more people. Sweden is the worst in the EU when it comes to jobs with low educational requirements. We need to get better here for more people to get a chance at a first job and be able to get in. Then we must also have smaller companies without collective agreements, which unfortunately are excluded from setting up jobs. Mr President, I would like to It needs to pay better to work. It is about reducing taxes for first jobs, especially for those with lower incomes and middle income, so that it pays better to work. It is also a question of creating an incentive for supply aid to move from exclusion and supply aid to work. The Centre Party has a number of proposals to reduce taxes on low-income and medium-income people and to create job incentives in support of livelihoods. The conditions need to be better for people who come to Sweden so that they can start and run companies. It is difficult for people born in Sweden to run businesses today. Imagine, then, the situation when you have a different native language and should understand the Swedish bureaucracy and the Swedish rules! The Center Party wants to see several measures here. Among other things, it is a matter of the Arbetsförmedlingen – as long as it is responsible for the matching – being given the task of informing about the possibility of running a business and encouraging this. We also want to see a simpler form of enterprise, which we call entry companies. First of all, when you have low turnover, we cut a number of rules in bureaucracy and taxes, so that it becomes very easy to take the step of daring to become an entrepreneur. V i sees among the people who come from other countries that more are entrepreneurs, which one can understand given the momentum that has led them to move or move from another country to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Several other elements are important to highlight when we discuss integration. Although jobs are the key to successful integration, more parts are needed. One issue I would like to raise concerns language. When you come to Sweden, you should learn the language early in order to be able to get into society more easily. It is also about improving SFI education, which unfortunately works quite poorly in some parts of the country. We want a results-oriented SFI-money with a focus on creating opportunities for people to be able to choose trainers. In addition, it should be performance-based so that we get more bang for the money. We must also ensure that the possibility of vocational training combined with Swedish for immigrants is strengthened. It must be easier to get into Swedish society, and then you need to know more about how Sweden works. That is why we have a text in the report saying that we think there should be a social-oriented basic education for new arrivals immediately when they come to Sweden. It will start early, already in the asylum process, and will also be mandatory and linked to compensation. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying something about an important part of integration, namely the role of civil society. All associations and NGOs that have made fantastic contributions are a prerequisite for people to enter Swedish society. It is about sports associations and the possibility of entering society through them. These are voluntary organisations, as we write about in the report. With their help, we can create better conditions for people to integrate into Sweden in a completely different way. It is extremely important to make integration a success. We have a great challenge ahead of us, but it is possible to take on board. The most important thing is the jobs. We need to get people to move from exclusion to inside, from subsidies to work. This requires a series of reforms in the labour market area, but also in other areas. In this way, we can meet the integration challenge, and then we can also get more people to feel the warmth of having colleagues, a job and a livelihood.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-105	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the speech – it was as always interesting to listen, Fredrik Christensson. I'm not going to take the war on jobs or anything else. On the other hand, I have a question. I would also have liked to have received answers from the Moderates, but I am not allowed to reply to them. The question arises from the fact that both you in the Center Party and the Moderates have talked about having training already during the asylum period. I can certainly understand how you think – it has taken a very long time in the past to obtain a residence permit. It's a long time that's hard to make up for. But at the same time it is quite strange for me to invest a lot of resources in teaching people about Swedish society and training them in our language before it is even clear whether they will stay in the country or not. I would like to hear how you view that discussion. Wouldn't it be better to review processing times further and perhaps spend more resources on faster assessments? Even better would be simplified asylum rules that make it clear that asylum should not be sought in Sweden when there is no war in our neighbourhoods. But regardless of this: would it not be better to invest resources in first getting a decision on whether or not a person should stay in the country and then start working on education, language teaching and so on? Or are you simply saying that there should be material available in asylum accommodations? It is quite different that there may be self-study material. I assume that whoever comes here does not want to go idle and can take on tasks. But to invest active resources before you even know what it leads to in the end-- isn't that a waste of tax money?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. I share the view that it is important to have a rapid process of processing. There's no difference. Especially in recent years, it has taken far too long for people to find out whether or not to stay in Sweden. Resources really need to be invested in creating the conditions for a faster processing time. But what we can also see from the situation that has prevailed in recent years is a number of shortcomings in the reception of asylum. We have had a system that has been somewhat passivating to people. You have had to sit and wait for your handling and the information about whether you can stay or not. I think it would be good if people during that time had good opportunities to learn the language and get knowledge of Swedish society. This would facilitate integration at the later stage and avoid being passive for a long time pending decisions. However, if people are not allowed to stay, they will have knowledge that can be useful and create conditions in other cases. During the migration situation in 2015 and beyond, civil society has taken a major responsibility to enable language teaching, among other things, but also social education.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I don't mind if NGOs want to train extra or, as I said, if there are course material available and so on. What I do have something against, however, is that we both give false hopes and actively use resources to invest in educating people about our society and our language before it is clear that this is where they should have their future life, especially when we know that many people are expected to be rejected even with the current rules. Many people have abused the system and perhaps should not have come here at all. Is it reasonable, then, for us to spend resources giving them that training? I don't think so. I think it is reasonable to wait for this kind of initiative. Once someone has been granted a residence permit, you clarify what the person is expected to learn. Therefore, we also require, for example, social education and language skills when it comes to obtaining citizenship. During the time you stay here and live here you should of course be able to learn things. If you then want to become a citizen, it is a matter of course that you should be able to do that. Fredrik can also take it home to his party colleagues in the Social Security Committee. You are the only party of those sitting on the right in this House who do not impose any kind of language requirements on citizenship. I find it extremely interesting: is it really reasonable to allocate resources to educate people before they have an assessment of whether they have reason to be in our country or not and whether or not they have complied with the legislation?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-115	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by highlighting our reservation, which makes it clear that we are making counter-requirements when it comes to training during the asylum process: there should be the possibility of withdrawing the daily allowance for those who do not participate or do not carry out the training. But I think this is important for the whole of integration. Unfortunately, we see today that it is taking far too long. There was a statistical discussion earlier. We count how long it takes to get a job from receiving a residence permit. Unfortunately, it has been far too long waiting for many people. It is possible to create better conditions for people to gain knowledge of society and better language opportunities. We have highlighted the issue of having internships and so on during the period of asylum. This is also something that the Receiving Investigation and the Employment Service are looking at right now. If you get into the situation that you get a job during that time, you should have the opportunity to make a change of track in order to stay. Then you're a part of society. I think it is important to have this early. I think we can learn lessons from what has happened. People shouldn't passivate when they get here. Of course, we should have a fast and legally secure process to tell people whether or not they can stay. But during the time they wait for the news, I think it is important, both for individuals and for society, to provide the opportunity for both language teaching and social orientation.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-118	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson talks about the need for reform. Yes, exactly! That is why we are making gigantic educational efforts. That's why we invest in language training and social education from day one. That's why we have extra services. That's why we have professional science. That's why we have fast track. This is why the parties agree on start-up jobs. It's full of reforms. It will take time before everything falls into place, but there is no lack of reform. However, I understand, Mr President, that Fredrik Christensson does not like the subsidies that the parties agree on. The fact that the parties' agreement is not accepted as a good idea is strange, but I guess it is because it is a question of subsidies. It is better to lower wages in general, if you now take the liberty of interpreting how the Center views the Swedish labour market. The only subsidies that work in the world of the Center Party and Fredrik Christensson are such as RUT and ROT. It's a good bet. It's subsidies that go home. One can almost imagine that there is a point in this because these subsidies are particularly beneficial to groups other than those who are far from the labour market. It is above all a question I would like to ask you, Fredrik Christensson. You say that reduced taxes will stimulate people. But then I think you're guilty of the answer. You're lowering taxes. How do you respond to the nurses in the home ministry around the country when they are going to be a few fewer? If you lower taxes, well-being will change. The health care needs are enormous, not least at home in Skåne. I think you should answer the employees and also those who need Scanian health care, Fredrik Christensson. You also have your own county council to answer about. What are we going to cut down on? If we reduce taxes, we must reduce welfare. What welfare is too good? What welfare should we deteriorate in this country? If we are to reduce taxes, we must also answer where to take the money.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-121	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to reply to the nurses with the message that they will get more money in their wallet and thus get incentives to work more and that more people will want to become nurses, nurses and so on and take the step from exclusion to work. Now it is about the labour market, but we can see that during the time of the Alliance we managed to reduce taxes while at the same time making more money for welfare. There are a number of other areas where we can see the need to raise taxes, such as the environment, but this is not precisely about labour. Working in Sweden must pay off. Unfortunately, the government is raising taxes, making it less profitable for people to work. We see that what is needed is exactly the opposite. Annelie Karlsson highlights various reforms. A number of the reforms are very good. Others are worthy of heart. However, there are no structural reforms that make a real difference in the labour market. We have a huge problem with the match. We have a major problem with the fact that we have far too few jobs with lower educational requirements. We have a structure with very high entry-level wages that means that companies do not dare to hire the people who are farthest from the labour market. That is where we need reforms. Unfortunately, however, the Social Democrats have not presented a single proposal that would make a real difference to the Swedish labour market.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-124	Mr President, I would like to I understand that it gives more money in the wallet for the assistant nurse. But I think the nurses are smarter than that. They understand that no one can pay their salary even if they could work more or get incentives to work more. Who will pay the salary if tax revenue is reduced? It's with tax money that we pay the nurses' wages. For them to become more, it must mean that we pay taxes. There's no other way to pay for it. I think every nurse knows that. I spoke about trade workers in my previous speech. It's the same thing there. I met 90 trade employees yesterday in the Viska Valley. None of them asked for lower taxes. They asked for better access to Swedish healthcare. They demanded better resources for the school so that they could leave their children there and feel confident that it worked. They asked for care to work for old parents. They're asking for more welfare, not less. If we reduce taxes, there will be less welfare. It's very simple math. It's not rocket science. We must be able to explain this to the voters. I think Fredrik Christensson owes that to the voters. If we are to reduce taxes: What welfare is too much of today? What welfare should we reduce? Should we cut child benefits? Should we reduce the costs of Swedish healthcare? I think every voter thinks we need to increase welfare. We need better general welfare. My family has been very grateful on several occasions that Swedish health care has been waiting for us when we needed it. None of those times we've known we'd need it. But once it's needed, you're infinitely grateful that it's there. We risk talking about tax cuts instead of welfare that works. I think Fredrik Christensson should consider another lap of that thought.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-132	Mr President, I would like to This shows quite clearly the difference in economic policy between the Center Party and the Social Democrats. In Sweden, the Social Democrats want to increase taxes and thus also get fewer people to work so that fewer people will pay more to get more money for their welfare. We have another vision. We want more people to work. If more people are involved in contributing, the tax burden does not have to be the same for all people. Therefore, lower taxes are needed for people with low income and middle income so that more people take the step and work. That is why we need a job stimulus in the support system so that more people take the opportunity to work. That is how we get more people to pay taxes. If we have more people paying taxes, we will also have more resources for welfare to invest in shortening, for example, the care queues that have grown during the time of the Social Democrats. It's important. That is why we are pushing the issue of jobs when it comes to integration. Lower taxes are needed for jobs and entrepreneurship. I've been pointing at the jobs. It is the same with entrepreneurship. If we are to get more people to work and contribute, reforms are needed to reduce taxes on businesses so that they can hire the people furthest from the labour market. That is how we get more resources for welfare.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-136	Mr President, I would like to Integration, or inclusion, is about us all being given the conditions and rights to have the same standard of living and life chances. It is a question of freeing people's future from the background they have, thereby giving them the freedom to live on equal terms and opportunities. Having a job and an income are often crucial for a new arrival to have a standard of living similar to that of a native of the same age. But integration is at the same time so much more than jobs. Integration is also about housing standards, health and longevity, and about equal opportunities to offer their children good growing-up conditions and good chances in life. When discussing integration, you need to distinguish between what Arena Idea calls the big integration policy and the small integration policy. Although Sweden can and should be even better at creating an equal standard of living and life opportunities for new immigrants as for those born here, Sweden is still a country that, by many measures, has been successful in integrating immigrants. As several migration researchers have shown, only part of this success can be explained by actions specifically targeted at new arrivals and other foreign born. Targeted actions, such as language teaching or validation, are the small integration policy. Many of the proposals we are debating today are precisely part of the small integration policy. But Sweden's recipe for success is the major integration policy. The major integration policy is the one that seems inclusive to most of the population, in different parts of life. It is therefore about the welfare and social security system that will create conditions throughout life, from childcare and education systems to health care, unemployment and health insurance and access to housing and welfare services such as libraries. Mr President, I would like to So it is not possible to talk about integration without talking about general welfare, the great integration policy. The reception of people on the run from the asylum process to housing and the establishment of society should be characterised by a perspective in which individual people's opportunities for an equal and equal life free from discrimination are at the centre. This means that together we create a society that provides all the conditions for equal living conditions and opportunities – a society that stands up for people who live and work here to have the same rights and opportunities. General welfare is central to upholding the rights that it is our duty to protect. It is also through these two building blocks that we create the fastest and most effective opportunity for newly arrived people to enter Swedish society. The challenge we now face is to give the people who have gone to Sweden to escape war and oppression good opportunities to start their new lives here. We will meet that challenge too, but how successful we are now depends on the decisions we make. The key to Sweden's success has never been lower wages or worse conditions than in other countries. Our strength has been to invest in society and each other – in education, housing, health and equality. This is how Sweden develops and grows. It shows our whole modern history. Earlier generations got better education and better jobs while we got more. This was possible thanks to long-term profitable investments. This is a lesson that Sweden must also take on board today. The Government, in cooperation with the Left Party, has implemented reforms that facilitate the establishment of new arrivals, although we would have liked to see more and greater efforts on both the major integration policy in the form of an expanded and strengthened general welfare and housing construction and also on the small integration policy in the form of, for example, investments in Swedish from day one. To do so requires a redistributive policy in which the richest of society contributes more. Mr President, I would like to As in many other OECD countries, children of foreign born children fare worse than children of native born parents even here in Sweden. In Sweden, these differences are smaller than elsewhere, which is particularly remarkable in view of the challenges faced by their parents. Many came as refugees compared to other OECD countries. According to an OECD report on integration and employment that came in 2016, this is a sign that integration has been successful in the longer term. Sweden is facing an extensive shortage of labour. The number of children, young people and older people will increase considerably over the next ten years. The number of persons aged over 80 and young people in upper secondary school age increases most. At the same time, they increase in working age, aged 20 to 67 years, significantly less, on average by 34,000 people per year. Of these, the activities of welfare in the short term require almost 20 000 people. According to SKL, more than 500 000 people will have to be employed in welfare from 2013 until 2022. In addition to preschool and school, the need is greatest in municipal care and care. It is important to realise that the people who have come to Sweden in recent years are an important resource in this. They are here and can help us build the country and our common future. Mr President, I would like to The transition from 17 years to adult is a major step with great significance for both the life situation and the rights of unaccompanied asylum seekers. On the 18th anniversary, the right to a good man disappears, and the young person is forced to move from the home of unaccompanied minors to an adult home. The move to new housing can sometimes mean that they end up in another municipality, in some cases far away from the former place of residence, which means that they are pulled up from the context they created and from the place where they started to establish themselves. It also involves the risk of having to leave the school you go to and an unwelcome interruption of your studies. In negotiations with the government, the Left Party has made an effort to provide the municipalities with resources to allow unaccompanied minors to remain where they live after the 18th anniversary. This is an important step, which would probably need to be more comprehensive and which unfortunately is not used by all municipalities as intended. In the light of the legal uncertainty of age assessments and other things we have seen, this is an important issue. The Left Party wants to see a softer transition from 17 years to adults that makes the change a little easier to handle. We have such softer transitions in so many other areas of our society. What such a solution might look like should be further explored, with a focus on unaccompanied minors aged 18 to 21. Such an investigation should, for example, address the role of folk high schools, the form of housing, the possibility of using assisted housing as a transitional solution, how housing can have more appropriate age classifications, a long-term placement of unaccompanied minors and asylum seekers, and how the right to a contact person can be strengthened when the good man's assignment ends. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 6.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-152	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3. For time winning, the Liberals do not agree to the other reservations, but we wholeheartedly support them. We Liberals see how the gap is growing between those who have livelihood, security and every chance of life and those who lack hope and opportunity and who are never given the chance to contribute. In Sweden of freedom many children grow up without seeing their parents go to work or even being able to speak Swedish. There people lose hope of ever being able to influence their future. There is often chaos in the classroom, and the big dreams seem to be reserved for those growing up in other neighborhoods. In Sweden of Independence, it is no longer a matter of course to be able to walk dressed as you want, to go out when you want or even to sit down in the café in the square that is closest. There criminal gangs run, and religious moral policemen have taken over streets and squares when the rule of law is unable to maintain the security or social contract of these citizens. In Liberals' Sweden, not even the background should be able to decide your future. It is a matter of destiny for Sweden that we manage to bridge the gaps between those born in Sweden and those born in another country. It is about keeping our country together and giving everyone confidence in the future and freedom. Immigration has enriched Sweden for centuries, and we want it to continue to be so. It's our mission to make it happen in real life. However, immigration must become more than just a journey across the border; it also requires new Swedes to be admitted into Swedish society in real life, to learn the language, to respect Sweden's laws, to work and to become part of a Sweden that is growing and developing. It wasn't better before. We Swedes must also change our view of Swedishness in exchange. People who have their future in this country must be able to be seen and treated as Swedes by us who are born here and allowed to retain their cultural identity. I myself, for example, see myself as proud 100% Swedish and 100% Assyrian. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention four areas in which we Liberals will invest when the Alliance takes power this autumn so that people can succeed when they come to Sweden and so that we can keep this society together. First of all, it's about the jobs. The Liberals and the Alliance want to invest in entry jobs with lower wages for a period of time. This gives newcomers a real chance to get a foothold in the labour market, and it is particularly important for the many newcomers who have little or no education. This challenge has absolutely no answer to the government at all, and these people are in the majority. The first job in Sweden is the crucial step into Swedish society to get rid of dependency and get empowerment. We could save 37 billion on women with immigrant background working as much as women with Swedish background. There are 37 billion people who can invest in welfare, but Annelie Karlsson and the Social Democrats do not know that. It is commercial workers who are paying this 37 billion today. We in the Alliance also want a compensatory survey to be carried out from day one during the asylum period so that people who then receive asylum can get to work as soon as possible. It goes without saying that we should do this. Secondly, Mr President, we want to invest in the Swedish language. Knowledge of Swedish is the key to both independence and participation in Swedish society. People who do not know Swedish cannot even listen to this debate. They cannot even understand which Sweden we politicians from eight different parties in the Riksdag want and which country we want to build. It is essential to be able to speak Swedish. I do not demand that you be able to speak professor Swedish, but you should know a little Icasvenska. You should be able to buy milk and understand what something contains; it is quite normal. We want to see earlier and better language teaching, and we want to see requirements for learning Swedish. We also want a social test for citizenship. The Public Employment Service must be allowed to make clearer demands on the individual in terms of both attendance and results, and the Liberals believe that it is reasonable for work and practice to be put in as a language measure if knowledge of the Swedish language is not achieved after six to eight months of studying in Swedish. You can't keep putting people who will never learn the language on a school bench and leave them there. They need to get into some kind of job or internship to learn the language in the workplace. So it was in the 70s and 80s; you learned the language at work. The Liberals and the Alliance today receive a notice to strengthen the activity requirements during the start-up period by further reducing the start-up allowance for persons who are absent without a valid reason from start-up activities. I expect the government to immediately introduce reduced compensation in the event of absenteeism. It is quite reasonable that people who are part of start-up efforts should be present. They have to take this seriously. If they do not, they should also not receive the same kind of compensation. Thirdly, equality. Sweden has developed into one of the world's most equal countries. The Liberals have a strong part in this. We have everything from Selma Lagerlöf to Cecilia Malmström and Birgitta Ohlsson, who have been fighting for gender equality in this country. Equality gives people freedom and increases our prosperity. Gender equality should be self-evident for all girls and women – both those born here and those who have moved here. We have for decades betrayed the women who have come to Sweden by accepting honour violence and passivation. We need to take strong action against both honour violence and patriarchal structures. For us liberals, that means total ban on child marriage. We should not allow polygamy, and we should have a lex Fadime, that is, a penalty rule for crimes of honour. If you commit violent crimes during the asylum period, you must always be tried against expulsion. It is almost exclusively a question of violent crimes committed against women or LGBT people, and it is almost exclusively men who commit them. The Public Employment Service and other Swedish authorities should not contribute to maintaining traditional gender roles in work. Today, over 30% of women born outside Europe are unemployed, compared with 4% for women born in Sweden. It is commercial workers, Annelie Karlsson, who pay this price. It costs us 37 billion for these women not to work, and this money could go to welfare. It is also a question of restricting the freedom of these women. After seven years, only 39 per cent of women who have come to Sweden are in employment. For men, 59% applies. It is totally unacceptable that such differences exist, and these differences are largely due to patriarchal structures. Women and men must be met by the same expectations and demands to work by Swedish authorities, and they must receive the same contributions from Swedish authorities. We must also focus on other things of this kind, such as the fact that sfi has become a women's trap where you get stuck for years. Women are hidden away in unemployment figures. It cannot continue to be this way. We liberals believe, among other things, that the municipalities should organise courses in Swedish also for women on parental leave, for example within the framework of open preschool. This would cause many of these women to learn the language even though they have children. Fourthly, it is about the safety of our suburbs. After a long time with an understaffed and mismanaged police force we see great breaks in Swedish security. Worst victims are suburbs and exclusion areas where lawlessness spreads and where crime has become a career path for many young people who see no other way. My own town Tynnered in Gothenburg is now classified by the police as a socially vulnerable area. But to be honest, it is a socially disadvantaged area, where we have given up. It is visible both in terms of school results and in terms of criminality. Mr President, I would like to The state of law must be restored, and we will secure the social contract again in Tynnered and in other vulnerable areas. In order to do so, the police must increase, and the best teachers should work in these areas. The consequences must be clear to young people who commit crimes. It's supposed to cost you a lot of money to commit a crime. Mr President, I would like to Through Sweden's openness to the outside world, we have received new ideas and thoughts and people who have helped to build Sweden strongly. This applies to my own family, among others. In our protected corner of the world, we have created a stable democracy with freedom of opinion, freedom of religion, equality and a strong protection for everyone's freedom. All these are liberal achievements of which I am proud and which we liberals intend to fight to defend against the wave of anti-liberal Islamist, right-wing and left-wing forces that have grown stronger in Sweden in recent years. The liberal idea of the freedom, power and integrity of every human being is not history but living values for which we will fight. These are the same ideas that will carry Sweden into the future, which will enable people to dream and develop and make Sweden one of the most respected countries in the world.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-176	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Hannah, for a speech in which I can actually agree with large parts. It is much of the policy that we are also pursuing, and it is nice to hear that the Liberals once again and a little more powerful than for a long time, not least in government, talk about things like language and social literacy requirements to strengthen citizenship and to stress that values and knowledge of our society and being a part of Sweden are important if you are to be a part of Sweden. I requested a reply to ask a question about reservation 17. It is an alliance-based reservation based on a motion by mainly defence members. Liberals are the driving force of the Alliance, and it is a question of involving voluntary defence organisations in the creation of new arrivals as well. I myself have often highlighted the importance and importance of military service, for example, as one of the absolute best integration measures that exist. It doesn't matter where you come from, who your father is, what your mother works with or where you were born: Once you are in the Swedish Armed Forces, it is you and your combat partner, your group, your task and what you do together that applies. On the part of the party, we are talking about civic duty, perhaps not just in the military for everyone, but the idea that one can be a part of society when one becomes a citizen we highlight as an important part of integration. I am therefore in favour of these ideas, but I still have to ask the question why it is decided to do this already for new arrivals, not least inside the defence organisations. There is, of course, a difference between the task and the task of the defence, but there are still limited resources available. It is said that they will participate in training courses and build important networks of contacts, and we know that they do not fully know who the new arrivals are and what loyalty they have.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-181	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the question! I believe that there is quite a difference between the integration policies of the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. After all, you do not have an integration policy. You have almost no proposals, as Paula Bieler admits. In the debate, she says that she takes note of things. There is another huge difference when it comes to our parties' integration policy: Liberals want people to be able to come to Sweden. We want people to succeed in Sweden, and that is why we are also shaping a policy for it. Liberals want to be open to the outside world. We want to be part of European cooperation. We want a free, democratic society. We want to defend ourselves against anti-liberal forces such as right-wing parties. We want very much; you do not. We also want civil society, which is a natural party and has been for generations, to be part of getting people into this society. There's a lot of power, and there's a lot we can do better. But when it comes to defence and NGOs, it is not the defence itself, but the NGOs around those who have a lot of power and knowledge and can contribute. I am open to everyone who wants to contribute, and we have raised this motion for voluntary organisations in the field of defence to contribute to a society that strengthens and contributes to integration. It's perfectly natural. There is nothing strange about us thinking that they should be allowed to contribute.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-186	Mr President, I would like to Liberals want a lot. Above all, they want to be prejudiced. I can recommend to Robert Hannah both to read our migration policy programme and to talk to me outside this Chamber and to know what we really think, if that is the case. I said that we do not have much of the integration policy that is called integration policy in the debate, because it is often about subsidies and specific efforts that distinguish different groups. I stand for this every day of the week: I do not think that integration policy should be based on separate solutions. That goes without saying to me. I am talking about integration policy as a policy that builds together and integrates our whole society, whether it is about those who have moved here or are born here, about those who live in rural and rural areas, about those who come from the city or about different age groups. It is about building a good society where everyone has the opportunity to develop and contribute in the best way. Let me return to my question: it is very easy to do this when you wave the question of NGOs around the defence. I'm active in volunteer defense myself. This has been my way into the defence organization and the Armed Forces. As I mentioned, there are a few of the voluntary defence organisations involved in tasks that are not specifically linked to the Armed Forces. However, the vast majority of them spend most of their resources on training courses, for example, on domestic military employment, i.e. specialist training for the volunteer soldiers. It's about safety training and quite serious situations and social crises when you're supposed to be there. I see that the Alliance wants to open this system to people who are newly arrived and who are not fully aware of it. As we have seen, unfortunately, there are among these both those who commit crimes of a less serious nature and those who commit crimes of the most serious kind, as we saw last year in the attack on our entire society. I do not think that is reasonable, and I wonder how this can be imagined.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-193	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler seems to think that people in this case should be able to get weapons and be involved in various types of operations. It is not about this, it is about quite simple efforts regarding voluntary organisations in the field of defence, for example that they should be able to come to asylum homes and talk to the asylum seekers, participate in various interventions and have some exchange in the Swedish language. It is not a question of arming them and allowing people in any way to have access to our weapons reserves. This is about NGOs, regardless of who they are, having a lot of power and knowledge and being able to contribute to the integration of this society. I look forward to seeing Swedish voluntary organisations within the military come to our asylum accommodations and participate in language interventions. It's welcome. Let us talk about special solutions and also be very clear: the Swedish Democrats think that too many people come here. One, two, a hundred, a thousand or a million, that's too many, no matter what. One is always one too many. That is why you do not want integration policy either, and that you do not want it because you do not want these people to succeed. In your world you do not want people to succeed, because you want to form an opinion in Sweden so that people will not be open to this. These are anti-liberal values. It's the anti-liberal wave. We Liberals will always oppose it. We believe that we need an integration policy. We believe that people who come to Sweden must be met by some kind of effort to succeed. We believe that people should be able to meet and that voluntary society organisations should be a strong and active part of it. If non-governmental organisations in the military want to be involved and have announced this to us in the Alliance in various types of forums and contexts, and Allan Widman and the Committee on Defence are pushing this issue, then I welcome it. I think it is an important part of our society that people who come here should also meet civil society.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-199	Mr President, I would like to This is my first debate as a Member of Parliament in this House, and I therefore ask for an extraordinary understanding of any formal errors and extra humble opponents of the red-green team. I would also like to start by calling for the approval of reservations 7 and 20. Mr President, I would like to The concept of integration in Swedish debate has almost always been synonymous with language and work. Only one new arrival will quickly get out of work and quickly learn Swedish will do the rest. Of course, work and language are incredibly important elements for successful integration. But that's not enough. To become fully part of the community, we need to understand and embrace the common values on which our country rests – what we Christian Democrats like to call the ethical mother tongue. If you do not understand this foundation of values, then it will be difficult to become a part of Swedish society. It will also be harder to find a job, and it will be harder to learn Swedish. This perspective has been almost absent in the Swedish integration debate, which in turn has contributed to less functioning integration and also, I believe, fear of making demands on people who come here. Social orientation came about under the alliance government, and it was an important reform to strengthen the value base work of new arrivals and to clarify the values on which our country rests. However, social orientation can work better than it does today. When we in Stockholm City, where I am also active in local politics, looked closely at the presence of social orientation, it turned out that it was significantly lower than we had feared. There is also a great risk that those who need social orientation most are also those who do not. Contact with Arbetsförmedlingen was also expressed in terms of social orientation being offered to new arrivals. But social orientation should not be offered, but social orientation should be a mandatory part of the introduction for new arrivals. It is therefore important that we follow up on the presence of social orientation considerably more than we do today. The four alliance parties have put forward a joint motion for that. We Christian Democrats even go so far as to believe that social orientation should start already during the asylum process, as we believe that Swedish education should start during the asylum process. We also think that asylum seekers should be allowed to carry out various work-related tasks while waiting for a decision on residence permits. In total, studies and work will amount to a normal full-time service – this in order not to passivate people and to prepare asylum seekers for a life in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The willingness to help and contribute in connection with the migration wave in autumn 2015 was admirable. What if the commitment and energy that existed then can be translated into the integration work that must now take on? To do this, civil society needs to be strengthened. We must ensure that civil society is given the opportunity to contribute to good society. Unfortunately, the red-green parties abolished the tax credit to non-profit organisations carried out by the alliance government. It was a direct signal that civil society was not valued. We Christian Democrats want to strengthen the civil society that makes efforts every day to support Swedish society. In Stockholm there is the Volontärbyrån. Their task is to match individual people who want to make a non-profit contribution to integration, for example, with an appropriate voluntary organisation. This is an idea that I hope can spread to more parts of the country. We need to make it easier for more people to help and contribute to better functioning integration. As I said at the beginning, jobs and languages are important parts of the integration process. It is, to say the least, regrettable that it should take such a long time for a newcomer to get a job; not least, this applies to newly arrived women. We need to create a labour market that allows more people with lower qualifications to find a job and thus gain their own livelihood and stand on their own feet. The RUT deduction has been a success in this respect, and we need to find more sectors where we can lower thresholds to enter the labour market and reduce the cost of hiring more people. The Alliance's proposal for entry would be extremely important in reducing both thresholds and costs. Wages from work are always better than contributions from social services. The road from new arrivals to self-sufficiency must be shortened in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We often see and hear about the problems of integration, and I live and work in a municipality where we see this daily. Some districts are deeply segregated. Unemployment and dependency on benefits have been entrenched, school outcomes are poor and violence is part of everyday life. But few things are so uplifting and many times also touching as when new arrivals struggle with Swedish, try to understand Swedish society, find jobs and contribute to Swedish society. They show great and loving gratitude to Sweden and the Swedish people for this opportunity. There are so many immigrants in our country who want nothing more than to give back to Sweden by doing the right thing, finding a livelihood, paying taxes and seeing their children and grandchildren make the same trip. But this is only possible if we emphasise both obligations and rights, if we make demands in the receiving system and show that effort and diligence pay off while the opposite will cost. Sweden is a country based on good values, and so we want it to be in the future. With an integration policy based on these values and where we are clear to those who want to create parallel societies, we are laying a good foundation for integration. Rights must be accompanied by requirements and obligations. With strong and good values, we build a strong and secure society.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-213	Mr President, I would like to Welcome, Erik! I shall begin by being a little short on the label in this House. It's not against you, Erik Slottner, but I want to point out to Robert Hannah that lies and straw men don't usually pay off in the long run. Read again what we think before you lie. I am a little curious about a reservation from the Christian Democrats about the reception and residence of newly arrived immigrants. It deals with the home equipment loan. It is considered that the main problem with the home equipment loan is that it takes longer to enter the labour market is the two years during which the loan is grace free. This is certainly a problem, and it results, among other things, in the long-term inefficiencies of loans. That is a clear example of the specific solutions I am talking about which are poor integration policies. The biggest problem I see with the home equipment loan is that it is an opportunity that exists only for those who come to our society, not for young people who are going to leave home, or who may not even have a home to move from, who have lived in foster homes and wandered around the system, and also others who are going to build a home for the first time. They do not have the possibility to apply for government loans at low interest rates and grace to equip their first home. I wonder if the Christian Democrats think it is a reasonable order.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-217	Mr President, I would like to This is not a motion that I myself have aroused. I am new to Parliament, many motions are being raised in the Chamber and I am not particularly familiar with everything. Here's the thing. The motion has been raised because we have seen the effects of the changed rules on the home equipment loan. There are no concrete proposals to strengthen or weaken one or the other. We want to see what the effects of the changes have been, if they have contributed to the increase in debt and if it has become more difficult for newcomers to establish themselves in Sweden. Once the impact assessment has been carried out, we will see if further changes need to be made. Then the Swedish Democrats can decide for themselves whether they want to develop their policies and introduce home equipment loans for more groups than just new arrivals. Now this report is precisely about integration, and that is the question on which we have tabled a motion.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-220	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The Swedish Democrats are developing their policies in all areas. At the moment, we want to delete these efforts precisely because it is a separate solution. It is an opportunity that puts groups against groups by creating better conditions for those who have just come to our country than for those who have been born and raised in our country in similar situations. It's on that meta level that this is all about. We do not need to discuss the home equipment loan in detail, but for me it is interesting to hear Erik Slottner's and Christian Democrats' views on what they think will have consequences for integration if you give some opportunities and offer the conditions to a group that has come here that those who have lived in our country for a long time cannot and have never had an opportunity to get. Do you think that it can in itself set a group against a group, as it actually does, and create increased contradictions, or do you think that this is a fruitful way of creating integration?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-223	Mr President, I would like to I think there is a great understanding among the Swedish people that you sometimes have to develop some special solutions for people who come here completely empty-handed and who have with them terrible and traumatic experiences from their previous life. They may have seen all their assets disappear in their home country or on their way to Sweden. I think there is an understanding of this. I believe that the upset in Swedish society over the home equipment loan is quite limited. I have rarely encountered any great indignation about this. There are special solutions even for groups that are born in Sweden and have it tough in Sweden. I think it is good that it does, both in terms of social services and in terms of the economy. We need to take care of and have protection for people who do not have the same conditions as all of us. Many new arrivals belong to this group, and some special solutions will be needed to enable new arrivals to enter the Swedish labour market and Swedish society. That's it. We may wish that this would not be the case, but it will be the case. What we need to do is find incentives and activities that shorten the time from new arrivals to self-sufficiency so that it becomes as short as possible. That is the most important task – instead of whining about a home equipment loan, because I think that is actually a bit petty.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-229	Mr President, I would like to To complete comprehensive school and complete upper secondary school are today important prerequisites for being able to get a job and make a living. Good education is the basis for social mobility. We Moderates believe that it is more important where a person is going than where the person comes from. No one should be held back, and education is one of the most important keys to reaching where you want to go. Today, almost every fifth pupil leaves comprehensive school without being eligible for further studies in upper secondary school. That's the highest measured number ever. There are also far too many students who do not complete their upper secondary education but choose to quit. Many also switch programmes, which means that high school is longer. This could be avoided with better study and career guidance, especially in primary school. In Sweden today, the search pressure on professional programmes is far too low. This means that upper secondary school is unable to deliver skilled young people to the labour market. There is a shortage of skills in many places. Because of the debate that arose when university qualifications for professional programmes were no longer compulsory, many believed that the programmes were some kind of dead end. Now that we have ended up there, we agree with the government that it is right to reinstate higher education qualifications, but with the opportunity for the student to opt out of it. The high school inquiry has found that the number of hours of teaching in upper secondary school is small. Many students testify to many hole hours and teacherless lessons. The National Association of Teachers notes that for their teachers the teaching time may vary by up to 30 percent between schools for the same course content. The typical value is 86 hours per 100 points course, which corresponds to a teaching time of less than 20 hours teaching per week.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-236	Mr President, I would like to Today's course-shaped gymnasium has been around since the mid-1990s. The course upper secondary school means that students study courses and receive a final grade after each completed course. After such a long period of time, we believe that there is reason to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the course-based upper secondary school and how it has affected students' learning outcomes. Mr President, I would like to There is a lack of competence in many areas, not least in health care and long-term care. We need better cooperation within the regions with regard to the dimensioning of programmes in upper secondary school. Not all municipalities need to offer all programmes. Better cooperation can still guarantee a wider range of programmes in all parts of Sweden. The design of the sites should also be coordinated according to the need for skills in that particular region. We Moderates want to see an increased investment in industry schools to better match students to narrow professional areas where there is a shortage of skilled labour. It allows companies to develop, either on their own or in conjunction with an existing school, vocational training that is in line with the skills needs of the industry. Industry schools should be located in strategically selected places in the country and serve as centres of excellence, where the best professional teachers and the right equipment are available to provide pupils with up-to-date training. Mr President, I would like to Today, 33 per cent of all upper secondary schools in Sweden are independent. It's about 428 schools. In these schools, nearly 90 000 students attend. Most of them are well-functioning schools, but there are of course independent upper secondary schools that have improvement areas – as well as municipal upper secondary schools that have problems. It is important that we have a well-functioning follow-up of our schools and that we can demand that action be taken when quality is lacking. It's no matter who's head of high school. What Swedish upper secondary school doesn't need is a government that discredits independent activities, a government that puts forward a proposal that the Law Council has totally condemned. I would like to read a few quotes from the Council's opinion, which I consider to be particularly serious. The first is that both the impact assessment and the definition of the details of the profit limitation can, in conclusion, be considered incomplete as a basis for decision. ..................................................... The second is that it cannot be ruled out that a large number of... students and parents will be adversely affected by, for example, a large number of... students and parents in different ways. closures, transfers and organisational changes. ..................................................... We have major challenges in Swedish upper secondary school that we need to address. Risking the closure of a large number of independent secondary schools will not make it easier for us to overcome the challenges we face. I very much hope that the government will come to its senses, listen to the Law Council and put the proposal on profit limits in welfare where it belongs, namely in the trash. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for our reservation No 1 and the Alliance's joint reservations Nos 11 and 18.
i-3xbQNxNJXkLTLxxj18Aj76	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin in reverse to the previous speaker and call for the approval of reservations 6 and 12 on behalf of the Swedish Democrats. Perhaps the fact that the Swedish democrats want state authority is not news, Mr President. But what does that really mean? Well, above all, the government headship means that we review the things around the teachers, the principals and the other educators that will be there for the students to strengthen and ensure that teachers can be teachers and nothing else. There is something positive to mention here today, Mr President. It is the High School inquiry, in which all parties have sat down and debated their way to good solutions in parliamentary terms. This is an area in which Finland believes that we have set an example in any attempt at reforms or half the reforms that have been made. All parties have sat down and discussed what they agree on and what can apply over time. If something is important for the College of Teachers, Mr President, it is to have a long-term perspective and not to be pushed back and forth. Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to guess your age, but I suspect we're about the same age category as when we were in high school had subject grades. What was the advantage of the subject grade compared to today's course grade? Course grades mean that you have an opportunity to high-prester extremely much. This is stressful the students something cruel for the simple reason that you don't always have a good day. Some days are worse; some days are better. You may have been sick, you may have broken up with your boyfriend, something may have happened in the family, it could be anything – all of that can make you perform worse on that particular day. This is extremely unfair. We want to go further than the Moderates. We do not believe that course grades belong at all in high school. Should we have something, we should have subject grades so that we go back to that you have the chance to improve your results over time. There are even schools with 37% drop-outs. Why is that? Why are there so many dropouts from high school? Perhaps one of the reasons, Mr President, is that when you take courses, the only way to improve your grade on a subject is to step off your education and start over. When you step off your education and start over, you have the chance to read your course grades and improve your results. That's not the signal we're sending to our high school students. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed two-year secondary schools, a return to what it looked like before the reform and the change to three-year olds. There are advantages and disadvantages to reading three years. The advantage is that you have time for more studies. The disadvantage, Mr President, is that pupils who are tired at school are that for a reason. They do not want to continue studying a theoretical education but are practical or aesthetically designed and want to get out in their industry as soon as possible. That is why we have proposed a two-year training programme. If it is then, Mr President, that you want to read on as a high school student, that is fine. You can do a year's extension and study the theoretical subjects you lack. In fact, Sweden has one of the absolutely best functioning adult education systems – we will debate that later. We have both Komvux and folk high schools that can catch students who want to change direction later in life. I do not think that, when he was in high school, Mr. Speaker had the ambition to sit as Speaker of the Swedish Parliament. Perhaps I am wrong, but at least it was not my ambition to end up here as a Member of Parliament. Changes are taking place and must be made later in life. I've changed my profession five or six times myself, I think. It must be given the opportunity to do so. In a world as flexible as today, you don't know when you're in high school what you're actually going to be later in life. We can look at a country like Singapore. I have been there, and I have advocated their method in many debates here. What they do that is a bit unique is that companies go into upper secondary education and ensure that they contain the things that students need to be able to get out to work. Why is this so important? Well, we have a major mismatch in Sweden today between what is being studied in upper secondary education and what the labour market requires. This is something that not only Singapore but also Switzerland and many other countries are very good at: helping and supporting with sponsorship of tools and work materials and also offering practical teachers. You take teachers from reality – good people in your gender – and put them into upper secondary education to ensure that they contain what is important. At the hand of the heart, what is the school really? The school is a preparation for getting into working life and succeeds well there. Then we'll also give the students the tools they need. We have advocated, among other things, a high school of technology, in which we direct students into education to ensure that in 10 to 20 years' time we are still a country leading the technology, not just buying it. There is something called alternative fuels. It's great that we have different alternative fuels. Unfortunately, the industry and the education unit have not followed. If you look at a vehicle technology training, you can see that the things that are needed for us to continue to develop this are not there. Here we have something to do: go in and steer up what the national programmes should contain. What about study and career guidance in schools, Mr President? Yes, unfortunately, it is very varied. If it is important, it is to sit down with companies and guidance counselors and discuss what on the labour market you are suitable for. What are your strengths and weaknesses? Students must be made aware. Many times students live in some kind of sheltered workshop, and once they come out in reality they are not ready for the demands that are actually made. It is incredibly important that we get a well-functioning study and career guidance at all upper secondary schools in Sweden, both municipal schools and free schools. I would like to conclude by saying, Mr President, that what I saw from high school when I worked as a teacher for a small part of my career made me extremely impressed by the teachers who are out there. As I said, the market is extremely flexible. Those of us who stand here in Parliament today have no idea what will be required of the students in five or ten years' time. I respect and want to highlight the teachers who work in high school, because they do not have an easy situation. They will constantly try to adapt. It is therefore even more important that we actually use the local and national companies, which offer help and support on the ground. That's where I think we have the solution.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-263	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Jakobsson began his speech by talking about the Gymnasie inquiry and how good it is that all parties work together and take responsibility for creating long-term conditions for the school. This is, of course, important; I agree with that. However, it then falls into a completely different direction when Stefan Jakobsson is prepared to change the grading system from one day to another without making a proper evaluation. The motive I heard in the speech was that students feel stressed over the grades. It's not good that students feel bad, but I think the design of the grade system has very little to do with that thing. I think it is more about the fact that the grades mean so much when admission to higher education. From a moderate point of view, we would like you to look at other opportunities to bring students to higher education than just grades, which have received a lot of focus in Sweden. What I wonder is if Stefan Jakobsson thinks it is reasonable to make such a big change as changing the grade system and going back to subject grades without a proper evaluation being made.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-266	Mr President, I would like to No, an evaluation is never wrong but of course good to do. But I actually think the course grades have reached the end of the road. We can look at how well the students are doing today. We have an incredible number of defections today. We have many students who come out and are poorly adapted to the market. Why? Because they can choose courses. If you are 15, 16, 17 years old, will you choose the courses that are the toughest to read and offer the greatest opportunities to get a job, or will you choose the courses that are a little easier to read so that you get a good grade? Today, when students come out, they don't have all the basics that are needed because they themselves have been given the choice of courses they wanted to study. There can be an infinite number of combinations among the students who come out. I went myself four-year-old technical. When I entered the labour market, they knew exactly what I had read. It was safe with the information it had and knew what small resources needed to be deployed to strengthen me in the workplace. This cannot be done in the system of courses. If the Moderates want to make an evaluation, please – we welcome it. We'll also look at what it looks like. However, I do not think that a return to the grades we had requires much evaluation. For this reason, we believe that we can already say today that the course grades are not working. I want to stop rushing Sweden's students. I want the students to feel good and learn something in high school. They should be safe in themselves and come out with the subject knowledge needed to succeed in working life.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-270	Mr President, I would like to It feels strange to make such a big change because you think that a grade system has reached the end of the road. I do not take a stand for or against one or the other grading system, but there was a reason why the course grades were introduced. I think there may be a motivational factor in having the opportunity to influence a certain part of the content of their upper secondary education. The courses you study are governed most of what programme you are taking. The fact that there is a certain possibility to choose can motivate students to study a little harder. Changing the rating system has enormous consequences. It's about transition periods and how to handle previous grade systems and other things. I know that from experience from the last time we switched. It's not something you should do just because you think something's come to the end of the road. There are pros and cons with both types of rating systems. I think the big stress is that you think your whole future depends on the grades you get in high school. Of course, they are important, but we need to make sure that there are other opportunities to move on in life so that students do not perceive grades as such a hugely crucial factor for their entire future career. However, I do not think it depends on whether we have a course or subject grade, but on the fact that the upper secondary school grade is perceived as the only thing that makes sense when it comes to moving on to other education. I think that we need a proper evaluation that weighs the pros and cons. Finding good transition solutions can also be very difficult. I think it is irresponsible to reason as the Swedish Democrats do and say that we can continue to change the grading system because we believe that the grading system has reached the end of the road.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-274	Mr President, I would like to Of course we don't believe. We have done a great evaluation of this within our circle and have produced all the statistics and facts available. We see that high school students fail more today than they did in the past and that they are less adapted to the market than before. Earlier, they came out much easier to work. What were the reasons why we moved from subject grades to course grades? Indeed, they dispute about this. There are as many different theories as there are professors out there. I don't trust us to keep running anything just because we've done it. We must be pragmatic and look at this. Has the course grades reached the end of the road? According to the Swedish Democrats and the statistics and research we have produced, this is absolutely the case. Mr President, I would like to In this case, there is already a complete grade system to go back to. The subject grades were there. We know how it worked. They existed for many years. If there's anything the Moderates are good at, it's copying. This should not be a problem for them.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-279	Mr President, I would like to Upper secondary school is an extremely important part of the Swedish education system. That is why I am pleased that we are to be able to debate this subject today. We may also come back to this before the end of the Parliamentary Session, given that the Government has promised a bill. On every working life visit that we make as Members of Parliament, the issue of skills supply comes up as the most important issue. It is important that the upper secondary school in all its parts also maintains a high and uniform quality, so that you can trust that regardless of which programme you go to have the opportunity for a really good education. The Center Party's educational policy programme is called Training for Jobs. I would like to concentrate on a few of the points in the report, linked to the reservations we have, including the common reservations of the whole Alliance. Working life will change. It's an important factor. In what way, then, do we, from the political side, provide the conditions for lifelong learning, which you need to develop in Sweden? I listened to the debate of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs here earlier today. When you list a wide range of measures to be taken, it sounds more like a hailstorm or fireworks, which you hope will meet a number of people, rather than a coherent system of systematics and structures. There are studies showing that perhaps 50% of the jobs currently available will be lost within a 20-year period. In a way, this is serious, but it also presents fantastic challenges. To then build different ways forward for students I see as one of the most basic parts of a modern and good upper secondary school. There needs to be more ways to work. The Prime Minister, together with her Minister Anna Ekström, presented at Midsummerkransen Upper Secondary School a while ago some of the proposals that would strengthen upper secondary school, more specifically what concerns higher education qualifications. Since the introduction of Upper Secondary School 11, it has been possible for everyone to enter higher education qualifications. From the Alliance and the Center Party we have seen it as important to strengthen the school, so that it keeps a high quality no matter which way you want to go. What saddens me and saddens me is that the Minister now says that those who want to opt out of the preparatory parts are offered a hole hour. For me, this hurts. I don't understand the thought. We want to create good conditions for both the professions and the preparatory subjects of higher education. That is how we in the Alliance have thought about the current upper secondary school. It should be high quality regardless of orientation. To promise hole hours then I see as a step down. It was pointed out that the system that we have today can create problems for students when one might have to give priority to vocational courses. Now this possibility has been effectively facilitated by promising hole hours instead. We are talking about creating conditions for the future. Then there will be a focus on how we create the conditions for professional programmes in upper secondary school. But a challenge of at least equal magnitude is how from having attended a theoretical upper secondary school programme to be able to choose different forms of vocational education and training. Industry schools are up and running, which is good. We in the Center Party have highlighted this on a number of occasions. But it is also important to have access to polytechnic education. Already today we see that even those who have a university of applied sciences have a university degree. That's as much as 16%. 35 per cent of those in polytechnic education have also studied at universities and colleges. To focus only on professional programmes and make them more pre-school rather than strengthening quality is a bad thing, even though it has been part of the Social Democrats' rhetoric ever since Gymnasium 11 was introduced to talk about a dead end. I think it is a pity that the speech on dead ends has taken hold in the debate, because there are no dead ends. On the other hand, we must strengthen our young people, for example through better study and career guidance, so that they also develop electoral skills. The whole life is made up of choices. The upper secondary school elections are important, but at the same time it is important to build up your own skills in order to make a well-informed choice. Mr President, I would like to There are many challenges when it comes to upper secondary school. I would also like to mention the introduction programmes, which are important for strengthening quality. The previous debate was about integration. The introduction programmes in upper secondary school are important for this in different ways. I do not have time to go into the proposals we have today, but I would still like to mention this in the debate. Another important part is about young people's mental illness. Now this is a motion report, so it only deals with matters that are dealt with in the motions that Members of Parliament have written. Nevertheless, it is important to strengthen study and career guidance and election skills. It will increase mental health, as well as strengthening pupil health and providing young people with the support they feel they need in a crucial period of life. There needs to be conditions for learning throughout the working life. I will conclude by quoting Claes Åberg, Marketing Manager at TRR: It is worse to be too long on the same job than to be low-skilled or old. It is a rather exciting statement, given that we want to create greater mobility and opportunities to develop in their job. If 50 percent of the jobs will disappear within a certain period of time, there needs to be constant developmental thinking, so that you work with the entrepreneurial abilities in upper secondary school as well. In this context, I would also like to mention the possibility of working with UF companies throughout upper secondary school to create additional skills to meet a changing working life. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservations 11 and 16, although of course we support all our reservations.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-292	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by addressing all high school students who attend their respective schools throughout the country. I would like to congratulate them on the agreement reached by the Left Party with the government on free public transport for high school students during the summer. I would also like to congratulate them on the increase in the study allowance that the Left Party has agreed with the government to introduce. I would also like to congratulate those students who will not be able to take part in it in upper secondary school but who will be able to take part in it when they go to further studies after upper secondary school. Upper secondary school, which was once the way for a small selection of pupils, is today a matter for almost everyone who has completed primary school. Almost all young people go to upper secondary school, but only half of them reach all the goals and complete their education with a pass on all courses. The mission of upper secondary school must be to ensure that all pupils actually reach the goals that exist. Since the knowledge to be provided by upper secondary school must be regarded as a right for each student, the school should not be able to discharge its responsibilities by referring to it as a voluntary form of school. Just as free of charge applies to comprehensive school, it must also apply to upper secondary school. In addition, the Left Party believes that the study allowance should have the same scope as the child benefit and should also be paid during the summer. For the individual as well as for society, upper secondary education is a prerequisite for good professional competence and active participation in society. However, the task of upper secondary school is double. It will pave the way for the individual to a profession and personal trust and thereby strengthen the material and social base of social life. It is equally important that it continuously broadens the competence and status of individuals as citizens of society. I am not going to have a broad upper secondary school debate because we will have one when the bill is due to be debated in May. However, it is important to mention that it is important for us in the Left Party to pursue the issue of subject grades in a subject-designed secondary school. Aesthetic subjects should be available as regular subjects on all programmes in upper secondary school. Higher education qualifications shall apply to all upper secondary education programmes. We will invest in better study and career guidance and better student health. We're going to invest more in a better sex and cohabitation education. But what I intend to concentrate on is the reservation that the Left Party has and to which I would like to call for approval – reservation 17. It is about many of the students who are currently in the introduction programmes. It is about students who are newly arrived and who attend upper secondary school's introduction program. We know that the lack of upper secondary skills today represents a major obstacle to the ability to enter the labour market. This is particularly true for this group of high school students. The group in question has many years ahead of them in working life. Paving the way for them to end up in poorly paid jobs and in precarious employment would be detrimental to both them and society at large. The Left is convinced that we must contribute to raising the level of education of all pupils and, not least, of the newly arrived students – of all students who lack sufficient skills for the jobs available in the labour market. We must do this rather than create jobs with lower qualifications. The major problems today are that the education system is not adapted for those who have applied for asylum in Sweden. As you know, in order to qualify for a national upper secondary school programme, a new arrival or asylum seeker must first go through the introduction programme. There is a risk of getting stuck in the introduction programmes for many years. In most cases, pupils in the introduction programmes are also separated from students who study the national programmes. Many of the students who study the introduction programs feel that they are stomping year after year. One possibility could be that we extend the possibility to study single courses on national programmes while going into the introduction programme. As a result, study time would be shortened. This would lead to improved inclusion. It would also strengthen the sense of development. We believe that this is a proposal that the Swedish Parliament should support. Having said that, I would like to thank myself and say congratulations to the students, who have received these investments in high school. I wish I had received this when I was in high school, under another government.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-304	Madam President, I would like There are many different parts of Daniel Riazats's speech that could be highlighted, but there is one point I would like to highlight. It concerns the issue of aesthetic subjects, which are now to be included in all upper secondary school programmes. It is not that I devalue aesthetics in any way. It is important to get in touch with different forms of artistic expression and to express oneself aesthetically in different ways. However, as the proposal stands, high school work will be reduced by 50%. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, there is a fairly high risk that a halving will make it difficult to meet the goals of upper secondary school work. Upper secondary school work should somehow link up the student's education. You should have the opportunity to prepare, carry out and complete an independent project. This is the type of competence that employers also demand. I find it unfortunate that the two parts fall into a contradiction. What are the Left Party's views on the value of high school work? How does the Left Party see that the proposal before us will actually reduce this to half?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-306	Madam President, I would like I have chosen not to debate the college bill itself. I would like to debate the motions and the other that we are going to debate here today. On the other hand, I thought it was important to mention briefly where the Left Party stands on the question of, among other things, aesthetic subjects in school. As you know, they have existed in the past in upper secondary school, and this has not led to any reduction in quality or to the fact that students have become less employable after upper secondary school, rather the opposite. We can look at the years when aesthetic subjects existed in upper secondary school. They contributed positive effects, which have also helped students on other subjects. I believe that this is the right way to go, but we have not yet gone fully into the bill – it is a legislative referral. We will wait to give our opinion on the proposal put forward by the government.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-309	Madam President, I would like I do not question aesthetic subjects and the value of aesthetic subjects. But the question was: How does the Left Party view high school work? You can discuss that without having the bill on the table. If we want aesthetic subjects and do not increase the number of teaching hours, something must be moved on and, according to the proposal, it is now high school work, which at least we Moderates find rather unfortunate given that it is an independent job and that it promotes the type of skills that the labour market actually asks for. I'm still a little curious. You must have thought about it anyway. What is it you should remove? Or should the number of hours of teaching be increased? How does the Left Party really view high school work and its value?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-312	Madam President, I would like I find it very exciting that the Moderates have nothing against aesthetic subjects but have chosen, as the most important question today, to ask: Why should we have aesthetic subjects? The Moderates want to invest in the school but usually question the parties that want to invest more in the school. The Moderates think we should have an equal school but do not have a single suggestion on how to achieve that school. I find it interesting that you always start a question defensively. They say that they do not want anything bad about this, but then they come to what is negative about the issue. The Left Party is in favour of upper secondary school work and aesthetic subjects. The Left Party will return when the bill is presented and when we will have that debate in the Swedish Parliament. I look forward to debating this issue, probably against Maria Stockhaus, in this House.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-316	Madam President, I would like He took a two-year economic line, then an AMU training, got a job as a welder, became a metal worker and now sits in the White House discussing trade policy and other important international issues with the President of the United States. One day when the Education Committee is discussing secondary, labour market and vocational education, I think it is quite important to zoom out and see this picture: that Sweden has had a fantastic ability to create social mobility, where a person who grows up under scarce conditions and in difficult growing-up environments has the chance to become Prime Minister and sit and discuss with the President of the United States. What we now have to ask ourselves is whether the Swedish system still has the ability to create that kind of social mobility. Since I am liberal and think it is very central that every individual should have the chance to develop on the basis of their opportunities, I am quite interested in how school works today, how integration works today and how labour market education works today. I see that it is more difficult to create social mobility. The main problem is that we have too little knowledge in Swedish school. Madam President, I would like When, during the time of the alliance government, we made changes in upper secondary school, a lot happened, but we need to do more. When we discuss high school in this report, we must also zoom out. In fact, thousands of people – I think it was 19 000, or 17.5% – of those who graduated from comprehensive school were not eligible for upper secondary school. If you do not see this problem, it is very difficult to handle upper secondary school. Those who have not succeeded in primary school should also get a way to work or study. How to handle this group – those who do not even have primary school – at upper secondary school level will be crucial for the chances they get to make a journey into society and support themselves. There has been a deterioration in recent years, and it is very serious. This is perhaps one of the most difficult challenges we are facing in Sweden right now. I hear in the debate that many have high ambitions for high school. We're going into high school with more things. Everyone's supposed to be a college graduate. You should have more aesthetic programs. You should have more of one and more of the other. Finally, the question must still be asked: how can those who do not succeed in high school today, who did not even pass primary school, manage that we want to add even more and create even more uniformity in high school? I believe that we must dare to do the opposite, Madam President, and have more flexibility at the upper secondary level. After all, upper secondary school should prepare either for a profession or for further studies. I think we have to realise that all upper secondary education can then not look almost the same. We must have more flexibility at the upper secondary level. There must be more ways to work. The fact that many people today get caught up in the introduction programmes or in language introductions and then fail to make progress is one of our biggest integration policy problems and one of our biggest educational policy problems. The response from the policy must be greater flexibility. It is more important to go further than to have high ambitions that you can then not live up to. We need more apprenticeships. We need closer links between apprenticeships and vocational training, on the one hand, and the labour market and the industry, on the other. We need to work much more with what the Alliance did during its eight years in power – to raise the status of apprenticeships. We know that these training courses are very good, both for the individual, who gets a chance to get into the labour market, and for the industry, who can thus ensure that they manage their livelihoods. We must dare to say that those who are currently attending pre-graduate programmes must also be prepared for the university once they have completed these programmes. We cannot continue to have it so that we push the problems up in the education system. Every part of high school has to deliver its share. Each part of the education system must deliver its share. The fact that comprehensive school does not ensure that everyone succeeds has an impact on upper secondary school, and when upper secondary school adapts to this, it has consequences for higher education. Madam President, I would like More people have to succeed. Later, we will discuss how those who chose not to become eligible for higher education or who chose a profession that they then want to move on from get more chance in the form of labour market education or vocational training. However, we must also consider how more people can actually succeed. Not only can we have high ambitions and say that everything should be about the same, but we need to think about how flexibility can be linked to new opportunities later in life. Madam President, I would like The liberals want the Swedish upper secondary school to develop towards a subject high school with subject grades. We want the teaching time promised in upper secondary school also to be delivered in upper secondary school – too many lessons are cancelled. This is an important contract between school and student. When the student comes to the classes, the school will show that it takes it very seriously and conducts the lessons. We must ensure that there is quality in all schools, no matter who runs them. Whether public or independent, we must have quality. We must also ensure that we have teachers in place and that the status of the teaching profession continues to be increased. We cannot deliver a good upper secondary education unless we have the most skilled teachers in place. We also need to improve order in Swedish schools. Regardless of the level, it is essential that there are students in the classrooms and that the headmaster can, for example, quickly separate a student who is dangerous to other students or to the staff and teachers. Madam President, I would like The Swedish education system has had a fantastic ability to create social mobility. When we undermine knowledge requirements and devalue knowledge, we also lose the power that has meant that people who come from all sorts of backgrounds can become Sweden's Prime Minister. That is why it is so important to upgrade high school and to ensure that we have more knowledge in Swedish school. With this agreement, I would like to ask for reservation 11.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-334	Madam President, I would like Almost all young people begin upper secondary school immediately after the ninth grade, but only two thirds finish upper secondary school within the three years of education. This is problematic and something we must help to deal with together. The high school inquiry that we have heard about here, in which several of us members of the Education Committee participated, was aimed at increasing the flow of upper secondary education. It cannot continue as it is now, with only 69 percent of the students passing high school in three years. The fact that it looks like this can have many different reasons. Some people pick wrongs from the beginning. Others can't handle the line they've chosen. Many times there is insufficient support to advance your studies. A significant reason for the drop-out could also be the so-called course grades, which we have already heard a lot about in the debate and which almost all parties raise. Today you get a course grade in grade 1. If you can't pass the grade or get a bad grade, you're basically already out. The grade will be included in the grade. The course grades they look like today also increase the stress and grade within the school. We Christian Democrats therefore want to investigate the possibility of a return to subject grades in upper secondary school. However, this is a major change in the system, which in such cases must take time, as my moderate colleague mentioned in his speech. Madam President, I would like A prerequisite for the students to complete their studies is that they receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. Points on different courses have today replaced the previous hourly plan, but there are today no requirements on how many lessons a high school student should have. The more flexible scoring plan in several schools has become a way to cut back on lessons to save money. Two thirds of the principals lack guidance on how to follow up the teaching time, and every year many schools are criticized by the School Inspectorate for the lack of teaching time for the students. In an international comparison, we are low in the number of teaching hours. Moreover, the fact that we do not give our students the hours to which they are legally entitled is devastating. We must be able to guarantee that our students receive the education to which they are entitled. This applies to both primary and secondary schools. Madam President, I would like Since 2014, there has been a law on apprenticeships. Those taking upper secondary apprenticeships under one of the upper secondary school's vocational programmes can now become employed in a new form of employment. The advantage of apprenticeships is to gain experience and contacts in working life during their training, which can make it easier to access the labour market. As an apprentice, you learn to take responsibility and learn what applies at a workplace, while at the same time having the school that supports when needed. A report from the Swedish National Agency for Education shows that nine out of ten people who have taken an apprenticeship get a job. This compares with SCB's 2015 stud ie, which showed that 71 per cent of students who completed vocational training in spring 2014 had a job ten months after education. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, believe that this speaks clearly. We believe that employers' access to apprenticeship training should be increased. Madam President, I would like Professional skills must be valued and given a higher status among our young people. The message that the only thing that counts is being qualified for academic studies has been devastating. While we have youth unemployment, companies are screaming for skilled people. There is a need for matching and better information about which courses lead to jobs and which have the future ahead. Study guidance and career guidance play a central role here. It is also important that there is the possibility of a second chance or of completing their education if necessary in the future. Madam President, I would like Let me say a few words about the national tests. The main purpose of the national tests is to support an equivalent and fair assessment and rating. It helps to concretise curricula and subject plans, which in turn will lead to increased goal fulfilment for the students. Although we have agreed in this House that national tests play an important role, the government has now decided to halve the number of tests in high school on the grounds that teachers have a very stressed working situation and that many students are very stressed. Now we can't eliminate everything that's difficult in life. I agree that the national tests increase the workload. But why not look at how to simplify implementation, for example by central correction, instead of removing half of the samples, which are such an important tool for equivalence? The government has decided to remove the initial tests but keep the final tests. I do not get this to go together with the purpose of c malen to increase the achievement of goals. Madam President, I would like Those who, for various reasons, cannot cope with or cope with school need support much earlier in the education system. It is important to put support and resources into primary school as soon as you find that students are falling behind or feel bad. Here, sufficient resources for student health will be central and also access to special pedagogy skills. In these areas, the Christian Democrats have well-prepared and funded proposals. With this, I am in favour of reservations 11 and 18. Of course, we also support other reservations.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-349	Madam President, I would like This debate is based on 51 motions from the general period of exercise. Some things have happened since then. After the Occupational Programme Investigation and the Upper Secondary Education Investigation, the Government has now presented two legislative referrals on how to proceed to improve upper secondary school. We expect a bill to Parliament by April, and we will have reason to both debate and decide on upper secondary school as a whole in May. That is the main reason why I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and reject all motions, although many of them are both good and interesting. Nevertheless, I would like to anticipate the forthcoming debate and say a few words about how I look at upper secondary school. Upper secondary school is the basis for the skills supply of industry and welfare. It is also a basis for recruitment to higher education and has a mission to form for life. After all, we have some challenges with this, which have been highlighted earlier in the debate. Despite many good things that came with the Gy 2011 upper secondary school reform, the communication and debate on the reform were not good. In fact, they wanted to deepen and develop vocational training and reintroduce an apprenticeship track. Good. But what kind of signals did they send out to teachers and students? This has been mentioned by other speakers on our part in the past. That is why I was going to take the opportunity to take the opportunity to highlight the Alliance's positions on the matter. The former Minister of Education drummed in the phrase that not everyone can become academics in people's ears and heads. I think he was wrong. We must have high expectations. High expectations produce good results according to research. Actually, I think everyone can, but not everyone wants to. And we have a huge need for high school professional workers in this country. I think it was a very bad signal to send out when, at the same time, we introduced lower admission requirements for professional programmes and removed the standard that higher education qualifications should be given on professional programmes – one could choose for subjects. In addition, the Minister described apprenticeship training as a track for school fatigue. Apprenticeship education is a very good track for many, but it is not a trail for school-tired people. Reality has shown that this has had consequences. The attractiveness of vocational programmes has fallen, and we now have far too little pressure on vocational training. Therefore, the government has chosen to invest in the development of professional colleges, invested money together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO in marketing and informing about vocational training and professional competitions. It invests in a pilot project with industry schools and allocates 30 million to develop workplace learning. An SYV investigation has also been set up and mandatory prao has been introduced in 8th and 9th. The Government has also developed 51 different professional packages for vocational adult education in particular, but also for the introduction programme of upper secondary school. Buildable ones, speaking of flexibility, are important for lifelong learning, so that you can move forward in your development and take many different ways forward to work. A state grant is also introduced for upper secondary school apprentices in the introduction programmes. In the next debate, we will discuss the right to komvux, so that later in life you can have a chance to enter higher education. I am, of course, pleased that the government is now moving forward with the legislative referral on basic competences to be included in all vocational training as the norm. You should have the opportunity to opt out of subjects, but you are guaranteed to be able to read them if you want. I am also pleased that most politicians and business representatives have realised that what Jan Björklund introduced was not so happy. The Moderates, for example, have a motion in the report to strengthen pupils' ability to access basic competences. It honors them, I think. Madam President, I would like Another challenge we have is that too many people do not complete their upper secondary education. Upper secondary education is a watershed in the labour market, and all the energy we have should be given to everyone and be able to implement it in different ways and at different stages in some cases. The Government announces another Council referral on some important measures, including that everyone should have a mentor, that the Vice-Chancellor should more clearly investigate absenteeism and that there should be a better transition between primary and secondary schools. As many have said, the introduction programmes are a challenge. They are currently recruiting more young people than the vocational programmes. Some measures to improve quality have already been taken by adding SEK 300 million annually from this year. We are now moving forward to improve the transition between the introduction programmes and the national programmes. The proposal is for young people to have a guaranteed period of education as well. An aesthetic subject is proposed to become mandatory in the legislative referral that is now out. It actually gives the upper secondary school programme a broad common knowledge base and strengthens learning in both practical and theoretical subjects. There is so much that has been said here in the speaker's chair, and I suppose I will have some reply so that we can continue to debate it. However, I would now like to comment on a number of points. Everyone has taken up the subject marks, and we are in complete agreement there. The Government of Ekström has now announced the appointment of an investigation. I really think that the issue needs to be investigated, not least because adult education is also course-based. I'm sure there's a lot to think about there, but we're in agreement. The Moderates highlight an increased investment in industry schools, and I think that is needed. That's a huge search pressure for the experiments that are going to start this year. We will probably have to invest in this even more. I have already touched on the question of apprentices, and it was also raised by Christer Nylander. The bourgeois government set up an investigation, but the industry was not so keen on taking greater responsibility but thought that business schools would be a better way to go. But, of course, we shall continue to discuss the issue of apprenticeships. In my view, one of the most interesting requests in the Moderates report is to improve the dimensioning of the sites. That they want to strengthen governance is very interesting, and I agree. The school commission did not say much about upper secondary school, but it said that there is a need for a stronger national responsibility for the funding, dimensioning and localisation of upper secondary school. My speaking time is up, but perhaps Maria Stockhaus would like to discuss this issue with me in a change of line.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-372	Madam President, I would like We will have to talk about the dimension another time, because I will mention another point in my line, namely the Council of Law opinion on welfare gains. It's no secret that we Moderates didn't think it was a good idea from the beginning, but now others also think it's really bad. I will repeat the two quotes I had in my opening speech: closures, transfers and organisational changes. In conclusion, both in the context of the impact assessment and the definition of the details of the profit limitation, the present proposal may be considered incomplete as a basis for decision. ..................................................... It's words and no songs. A total sawing, say many in the media, and I am prepared to agree. We are talking about 90 000 pupils in upper secondary school who are at risk of this – plus all the teachers and, of course, worried parents of all these students. Does Caroline Helmersson Olsson think it is responsible to play Russian roulette, as you do, with their education and the teachers' work?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-378	Madam President, I would like Russian roulette – it was a dramatic choice of words. I think there is a simple answer to this question. Maria Stockhaus has an habit of raising the issue of profit in every debate regardless of what questions we have on the table. From the Social Democrats, there is only one answer: we want the tax money to go to students' education. The proposal may not be perfectly drafted, and the Government will of course take into account the views of the Legislative Council before presenting a proposal. But we must ensure that the money we spend on education goes to education. What is Maria Stockhaus' solution to this? How can we allow such a system in Sweden? How do you make profits at all in a school? I have not heard Maria Stockhaus' solution to the problem that the money does not actually go to education.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-381	Madam President, I would like I don't think Caroline has listened attentively. Even when we debated preschool, I raised our proposals to increase quality requirements, follow-up and evaluation. We do not want rogue players who are of low quality and trying to pick out money that way. There have been some rogue actors who are now gone, and we are just as grateful for that as everyone else. We think it is equally important to be tough with municipal authorities who do not deliver the quality that students can expect. We think that the focus should be on accessing all schools, regardless of the principal, who do not deliver the expected quality. Quality requirements and tougher follow-up are our answer. Furthermore, the Council does not believe that the proposal the government has put forward will have the desired effect. If you want to limit profit in welfare, this is not the way to go. Even here, the Law Council doesn't give the government the right. Does Caroline think it is reasonable and responsible for the government to put a bill on Parliament's table in spring when, according to the Swedish Law Council, there is much left to investigate before you get a sensible proposal that meets the requirements regarding the preparation documents and other things? Today 90 000 students attend independent secondary schools, and most are satisfied. Now you are endangering their schooling and the work of the teachers. Is it responsible to present a proposal that has received so much criticism?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-387	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that we end up in a profit debate when we discuss sports about upper secondary school, but of course I understand the link. Yes, I have listened attentively to Maria Stockhaus, and I have heard the word quality requirements. But what quality requirements does Maria Stockhaus mean? Is that how many teachers there are? Is that how many qualified teachers there are? Is it about the teacher's wages or the grades? I recently saw in a report from the Swedish National Agency for Education that the free schools had received higher grades despite less knowledge to cope with higher education. What are the quality requirements? The question is rhetorical, but I will continue to follow Maria Stockhaus and try to figure out what these quality requirements are. I do not think it is the disaster or Russian roulette that Maria Stockhaus says. We will of course listen to the Law Council, and of course we will keep the fine high schools that are out there. The money should go to the business, to teaching and teacher's salaries, and we must find a way to do so.
i-3jBNsb4x5mqFPZFTFJEjxU	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 13. We have a fantastic technological development that gives fantastic new opportunities in Sweden. Something that has emerged in recent years is the incredible development of the e-sports arena. It's about professional computer and video gaming. It is people with a serious profession who are also professional athletes. Many times they earn more money than many other athletes who have gone to sports gymnasiums do. At the same time, our legislation puts an end to which sports education can be started. It is the Swedish Sports Federation that decides which sports educations can start. Membership of the League is required – something that we cannot politically influence. This, of course, is a problem. We need to equate the e-sport with other sports so that we can have e-sport gymnasies in the same way as we have orientation gymnasies, football gymnasies and other things. It's only fair. You have as much chance of becoming a professional e-sporter as a professional in other sports, if not bigger. In my hometown of Eksjö we have an orientation high school, but there are more professional e-sporters in Sweden than there are professional orienteers. Then it is obvious that you should be able to educate yourself to do so. It's not about playing computer games in school all day. It's about a professional practice with coaching, physiology, nutrition and more. It is simply about professional athletes. We have to equate legislation in many areas, and secondary school is perhaps the most obvious area. There are e-sport gymnasies today as a local supplement, but they do not have the same opportunities as other educations. For the Center Party, it is a matter of course that they should have it. It is also about visa rules, tax rules and other things, but high school education is one of the major stumbling blocks. There are companies that want to enter this market and start these courses, but they do not get the same chance as other sports gymnasies. The fact that an independent organisation without political influence, the Swedish Sports Federation, decides which educations can be started in Sweden is a problem. It became a very clear problem when the e-sports wanted to be involved and the National Sports Federation said: No, thank you, you have to wait. We'll put you on the waiting list for two years, and in the meantime, we'll revise our statutes. For me, this is a clear signal that people are afraid of this enlargement and of e-sports. Then it is only right for politics to say: Okay, if you are not interested in bringing in all the members who meet your requirements, we will have to change our legislation. This is what we say in the Center Party's reservation No 13: One should have the same conditions in order to have equal training.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-402	Madam President, I would like I have a brief question about this, because I think we could have a really good exchange. There is no doubt that Rickard Nordin is passionate about this issue – it is clearly visible. We have also looked at these parts a lot. I went to a gymnasium for gymnastics and I have that background. I've been training there and I know what that means. What we saw as the biggest problem was gaining access to the skills to run different upper secondary schools. I shall begin by asking: how does the Center Party view this issue? Can we get access to the skills? It's there somewhere we're stuck in the investigation. How do we ensure that we can have access to the right people who are well connected to the market so that this training can be provided? This is the case for most gymnasiums. We have just had the Olympics and succeeded extremely well in the different sports. It has to do with the fact that we have had the right trainers and the right people in the right place – physiologists and everything around it. Rickard Nordin mentioned in his speech, among other things, the importance of having the complete set. Are there any thoughts of the Center Party there?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-406	Madam President, I would like For me, it goes without saying that those who recruit, that is, the principals, should also ensure that there is the right competence. It is not us here, from the state side, who recruit people to high school. Of course, good teaching materials and the right people are needed in the right place and so on, but exactly which people are to be recruited is not something that we sit in Parliament and decide. There are an incredible number of exciting people out there – and companies, as I said – who have specialized precisely in finding the right people, practicing those types of teachers, coaches, coaches, physiologists and all that it might be. This is out there if you just get the chance. However, it is not for us in Parliament to decide who is to be recruited, but for the individual headmaster.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-409	Madam President, I would like I am humble enough to be able to give Rickard Nordin quite right on this issue – of course. On the other hand, we may still have to set up an investigation. If we are to get such a line of thought through from above, we, as parties, need to agree on certain criteria in parliamentary terms. In this case, I think it might be wise to conduct an investigation. I am the first to sit at a round table and discuss this issue, because it is important. It is a question for the future. We must not lag behind here in Sweden, but rather be at the forefront. I'm gonna reach out to Rickard Nordin and hope Rickard receives it. I can sit down and have a cup of coffee any day.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-413	Madam President, I would like It's fun to hear the Swedish Democrats' newly awakened interest in e-sport issues. I look forward to them being pursued further and also voting in favour of the Centre Party's reservation in the Riksdag. We will see how much the extended hand in this House is worth when it comes to decisions.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-414	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservations 5 and 18 under paragraphs 2 and 9, respectively, so that I do not forget that. The motion report and the debate deal with municipal adult education, which includes Swedish for immigrants, and the university of applied sciences. On a lot of points we in the Moderates and the Alliance are in agreement with the government. We need to expand adult education, especially in vocational adult education. We also need to do this when it comes to SFI. The big differences are about how and whether, while expanding, one needs to be careful to ensure quality. It must be recognised that there is a great risk that the quality of large systems will fall. This needs to be recognised in particular because, from the very beginning, there are problems with quality. I think that everyone who has visited adult education and met and talked with people who are doing it and who have read statistics in this area knows that today's design of Swedish for immigrants is not very effective. There are far too many examples of people who have read Swedish year after year, who do not finish, who do not learn enough and who definitely do not get a job. This is not only bad for us as a society at large, but it is also an incredibly great tragedy for the individual people. So what do we want to do from a moderate point of view? Well, we think that you need to start reviewing adult education at unit level – at school level, if we want to speak clearly – instead of today, when the School Inspectorate reviews at municipal level and it is then up to the municipality to follow up in various activities. That's one thing. The second is that we have an incredibly sprawling system. Since it is up to the municipality to set up the business, procure and operate itself, there are many different rules from municipality to municipality. For those actors that are involved and that we need to expand the business, it becomes very difficult, and they spend an extremely great amount of time and resources to adapt to different municipalities and regulations. This is time and money that could have been spent on improving the quality of teaching and education. We need a more uniform system. That is why we want to introduce, among other things, national criteria. There are some municipalities that have started using something called authorisation, where compensation is much more clearly linked to results. If you have good results, get many out of work, work in such a way that students who study Swedish, for example, learn the language quickly, get out to work and become self-sufficient, you get a bonus for it. Then we reward that you have high quality. This is tested and used in Sundbyberg, Växjö, Helsingborg and in more places around the country. It spreads rapidly because it produces very good results. We need to have more of this at national level – taking what works well and doing more of it, while having inspections and doing less of what does not work well. This is a very pragmatic view and something that I think we could all be in favour of. Something against it is that this requires that we have freedom of choice in the system and that we introduce a system of frivux where operators can establish themselves without having to be procured. This is another of the things we are proposing. What I would also like to mention is a proposal we have that we call a vocational school. It is a fast track – a shorter way into the labour market. We can call this a career introduction or the start of vocational training that will enable you to get the first jobs in a labour market. Then you will probably need to come back and educate yourself more. This is in a sense similar to the Social Democrats' proposal for a course package. Here, too, we could certainly agree. It is only that we believe and know, because we have talked to the industries, that today's curricula do not meet the requirements of the industries. As long as this is the case, and as far as content is concerned, it does not learn enough or the right things and as long as the industry is sceptical about the content of education, it will not work well enough. We need to look at this – it is our responsibility. We also need to ensure that inspections of vocational education and training – this applies to all vocational training – are carried out by inspectors who know the profession. We need more professional inspectors, who are in place in the training courses and in the units and are reviewing, rather than bureaucrats who know school systems as a whole. It is quality and what you learn that is important. It is more important than exactly how the system is designed.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-426	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 2 and 9. There are many things that could be said about adult education. But I'll try to dwell on two. Here, too, we see that a government headship in some parts would be necessary to ensure quality. I heard the Moderates mention that we need to steer certain things up at national level. It sounds almost like a government headship in my ears. But there are some things that I think we need to ensure in order to get a good quality in all parts. I had the opportunity to visit parts of Tornedalen to see what it looks like up there. I also spoke to both Komvux and folk high schools. However we do today, these two units are together. I know that folk high schools do not belong to our area, but I will unfortunately have to mention them a few times today. What I was told is that quality differences have to do not only with teachers' knowledge of SFI but also with geographical location. Unfortunately, in this case we have geographical differences in Sweden, which makes it very difficult to ensure good competence in certain areas. What shocked me was that I thought it would be the other way around. I really thought it was down here in Stockholm that we would have access to good educators and that the further up in Sweden one comes, the worse it would be, because it is very large geographical areas. This was not the case, but rather the opposite. Up there you were very pleased. It was ensured that very early in SFI training involve training in what will be needed. Are nurses, nurses or guides needed? This is done to get people to work where they live. This part isn't down here. How did they know that this difference was so great? When individuals who have gone SFI down here in Central Sweden moved up in the country it turned out that they were so bad that they more or less had to start over. Perhaps they had read sfi 1 - 3 and had to go down to sfi 2 or 1. In the different courses A – D they also had to jump back several steps. I am very concerned about this, but we cannot solve that from the speaker's seat today. But I think that we politicians must be aware of this and dare to look at this problem. Our adult education in Sweden is a rather unique system. Few countries are as good as Sweden at catching up with adults, so that we can actually change direction later in life. In many countries you study once, and then you work in this industry more or less your whole life. But we are very good at adult education. We also see that small, small things can lead to huge economic gains. Among other things, we are aware that people who need to read about metallurgy in order to be able to work in the mining industry are not encouraged at all as much as they should. The mining industry is actually made up of a huge profit. I have had the privilege of being down in one of LKAB's mines in northern Sweden. Two things were said to us: Make sure to support ourselves with staff, and make sure to expand logistics. For we can break ore – so much. I know that LKAB is pumping a huge amount of money into our system. Here we have great profits to make if we can only focus on having a good staff supply. In most localities, Komvux is very good at working closely with local traders, so that you can get in and actually get a concrete review of what traders are looking for and what people need to read. When you have studied in Komvux to read, for example, upper secondary school skills, what should you choose? Where's the work? I would almost dare say that komvux many times is better at this than the local high school. The first point, which I would like to dwell on properly, is that we have, via Komvux, a unique system that we could use. We don't do that today. Madam President, I would like I come from the construction industry from the beginning, and there are often time-based employees. The construction industry has in some parts of the year less to do. Construction firms therefore do not dare to employ too much staff, as they then have staff who go unemployed during a certain part of the year. Here we see an extremely great advantage if you could hire people for the whole year, who can be permanent employees. Then they would not have to be employed for some time and then perhaps go and stamp for three four months in the Swedish system. Municipalities, county councils and states can contribute with different resources and money, as these people do not receive a fixed income during the year. This means that the municipalities get large costs, because a lot of extra money has to be paid out in support or similar. We also have an industry that is never further educated; it stands still. The Swedish democrats' proposal is that we put these people into compux during the time when the workload is a little less and let them read in in the komvux that you actually benefit from in some jobs – concrete 1, 2 and 3. I could list more things, but I think you understand what I mean. Instead of people being unemployed at certain times, there is the opportunity for companies and municipalities to go in and sponsor this fifty-fifty system. This means for individuals that they have permanent employment all year round. For companies, this means that they will have people re-trained for half the price. They become more knowledgeable and more competent to carry out work on the market. And for the municipalities, this means a half-assisted income support. Everyone has a win-win situation in this regard. This is something that I hope the other parties really listen to and that we can discuss it in the future. Here we have something we can do for the individual, for the companies and for the municipalities. Unfortunately, I have to mention folk high schools, because they are very much connected with adult education. Folkhögskolan belong to another area, but Komvux and folk high schools often work very much to divide the resources between each other. It is rarely seen at municipal level that folk high schools and Komvux run one and the same issue. The problem with this is that reading komvux gives you grades. But if you study in folk high school you get a study judgment, and the study judgment cannot compete with when it comes to seeking out further. In Komvux you can read things and then challenge other people when it comes to the same criteria with the same opportunities. But if you come from folk high school you can unfortunately not be challenged but end up in a small category for yourself, and there must be enough people to open a place for it to be possible to read further. I think we need to sew our systems together so they're not so different. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech by saying that I think that komvux is something that we in Sweden should all be extremely proud of. It's something that allows us adults later in life to change direction many times – we can read things. The problems that have arisen in Komvux and also in folk high schools are due to the fact that they have been able to capture many of the failures of municipal schools and perhaps even the free schools at the underlying levels, when we talk about primary and secondary schools. It's hard to get statistics for komvux. But you can look at statistics for folk high schools. General courses are about reading in the things you have failed to do. Special courses are a bit more about reading what you find interesting. But general courses are therefore about studying the subjects or areas in which you have too low grades in order to be able to apply further. These courses have increased from 15 per cent, as intended, to 50 per cent and almost more. It's been growing fast lately. I'm afraid the folk high schools and Komvux swallow very much of the failures in primary and secondary schools.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-449	Madam President, I would like It was exciting to listen to the Swedish Democrats' praises for adult education in Sweden. There is often a lot of criticism and call for nationalisation of one and the other part of the Swedish education system. But obviously, in the north in particular, it is a fantastic activity. It is fun when you see such an activity that also gives people the opportunity to grow in different ways. Madam President, I would like In order to meet the demand of the labour market for skilled professionals, it is incredibly important that this part is built together with the rest of the education system. We have debated high school just before, and it is clear that there are many parallels and similar elements that are highlighted in the two debates. Some of the things we talked about when it comes to upper secondary school are the apprenticeship system. Our wish from the Center Party is that it should be opened up even more in the case of adults in municipal adult education and other forms of adult education. One should have the opportunity to build on one's education for academic studies, and it will just be an opportunity with many ways forward – with flexibility, so that there will also be different paths. Sometimes we have had a tendency in our country to want to equip from the beginning – to build on with a rather heavy backpack in the Swedish school and in different ways, not only when it comes to time but sometimes even when it comes to content, try to finish. But in a changing world, it is precisely the recurrent development of competence that we in the Center Party see as the most important part, and there are some factors there that we need to address politically. A system of choice for Komvux means both that there is something to choose from and that the freedom of the individual is greater than it is today. During the first period of the alliance government, 2006-2010, the so-called Frivux investigation worked. It pointed to the possibility for adult students to choose more freely than they can in many places today. Both in larger and smaller municipalities there are exciting examples of how to increase people's freedom of choice in the form of an adult education grant and so on, and the Center Party sees this as an important part to spread in even more parts of Sweden. It is incredibly important that it is made easier to enter polytechnic qualifications for all students who have attended the pre-graduate programmes. In a way, you could say that students might have made more informed choices if they had had better guidance from the beginning, but when life offers different elements in the form of challenges, you need the opportunity to take on a newly awakened interest – or if you see a newly awakened need in the labour market – by developing your skills. This requires a different system from today, which is open and has more ways forward. Today, everything is down to university qualifications in a way that would not be necessary, as university of applied sciences qualifications are another important element to highlight. The University of Applied Sciences also needs to be given the opportunity to operate long-term, for example through longer permits. There the government has listened to some of the challenges that exist, but it could go even further in this regard. Just over ten months ago, we had a joint committee initiative dealing with post-secondary education for people with intellectual disabilities. In the debate that day – on 4 May, I think it was – we were very pleased with this opportunity. I would like to send a few questions to the debater of the Social Democrats: Now it has been almost a year on this issue, and what is it like? What's going on? What are the various elements that the government intends to highlight? There is no doubt that we want to put some further traces of this period of government, which is coming to an end. On the part of the Center Party, we have once again highlighted and wanted to point out the major problems that people with intellectual disabilities need more time for education in various ways. Our study aid system does not correspond to the pace of education as it would have to, and so we want to highlight this. We do so in one of our reservations in today's report. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party and the Alliance, it is extremely important that adult education becomes an opportunity for different ways forward. There is a great deal of investment in various forms of labour market training and adult education in our country, and one could have a more integrated system – a single structure for the possibility of having more power over the opportunities one can get as an individual throughout one's working life. We have a number of suggestions in our reservations. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 14 and 16.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-461	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by talking about the importance of investing in adult education. I would also like to say that it is very positive that efforts are being made again on adult education in a different way now that the Left Party and the Government are making joint budgets. With regard to distance education, I would say that this is one of the most important issues in adult education today. Today, more and more people in municipal adult education are studying at a distance. The Swedish National Agency for Education describes in its 2017 situation assessment that the proportion of distance students over the last 15 years has increased from a few per cent to today's approximately 24 per cent. Unfortunately, however, distance training is all too often linked to savings on staff and premises. In a 2015 study, the Swedish School Inspectorate points out that those offering distance education often place high demands on student discipline, while the possibility of teacher support is unfortunately lacking. The proportion of those who interrupt their studies is also very high for those who study at a distance. The municipality of Gothenburg has carried out a follow-up of the causes, and it is noted that one common reason is how the education is organised. How clear the structure is and how flexible you are as an organisation thus affects the number of dropouts. The Left Party welcomes the opportunities offered by distance learning, which many are offered to take, but when combined with unclear systems, profit-hunting and market adjustment, this becomes part of a system failure. In order for distance learning to function as intended and to be there for students who need this type of flexibility, a proper regulatory framework is needed that regulates the right to teaching time and support for teachers and protects the interests of students. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the regulations on distance education in adult education. There is another issue that the Left Party is passionate about in these contexts, and it is a question of rights. For the Left Party, it is important that all people are entitled to multiple opportunities and equal opportunities for education. At the same time, we know that those who are older and study often have higher costs and more difficulty in getting the economy with study money as the main income to go together. The purchase of course literature is a major financial burden for many students, not just for the elderly. The fact that students in adult education have to buy their own course literature can be seen as a departure from the principle of freedom of charge for education. For those who study the same education during adolescence, it costs nothing. At the same time, it can sometimes also be a problem to get some books after they have sold out. Of course, libraries do not buy enough copies of each book to be sufficient for everyone; it might not be possible to do so. If the principals buy books, it also makes it easier for teachers to plan, since they then know which books they will work with during their studies. We therefore believe that the government should require that all education covered by the Education Act should be provided with course literature free of charge for students. For the Left Party, student assistant training is important. It's about getting to focus on what you're trained to do. This is why we welcome the fact that there are different occupational categories within the school that can relieve, among other things, teachers. More recently, several student and teacher assistant training courses have been set up, and we find this promising because it is important that those who relieve teachers also have the skills to work with children and in a school. We are not opposed to providing targeted support for this type of training in the future. The training of student and teacher assistants should therefore be evaluated in order to ensure that they are carried out correctly. Although all of us in here, I believe, are in favour of this, it is important to monitor and evaluate how this system works and whether the staff actually get the right skills to work on the right issues in adult education. Another training that can be mentioned is the training of nurses. Today, the University of Applied Sciences provides various types of specialist courses in nursing education. What is strange, however, is that there are no national guidelines for training in dementia or palliative care, for example. Different universities must therefore reinvent the wheel. At best, they share each other's good examples. Regardless of what you think about the head of adult education, you must think that there should be national guidelines for specialist training for nurses. We believe that the government should make proposals on this. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to address the SFI issue, which has been very topical. Perhaps you saw Cold Facts a couple of weeks ago reporting on an unserious actor, a private operator, who has basically put in a system of very low quality training to make a profit from our tax money. This is not the first or unfortunately the last case where rogue actors only enter our educational system to make money out of our tax money. This has to be stopped, we mean. The Left Party sees education, language and knowledge as tools to be able to live in a functioning system – in order to be able to have their rights satisfied, to acquire new knowledge, to be able to work and make their way through life and, perhaps most importantly, to be able to participate actively in the democratic dialogue. In the same way as the Swedish school has a compensatory mission, Swedish for immigrants will also work compensatoryly and equalize differences between different groups in society. However, there are several indications that this does not always work in practice. In a debate dominated by proposals for lower wages and simple jobs, there is little room for a view of SFI as something that has higher ambitions than that newcomers should only learn the language in order to be able to work. We believe that the objective of SFI – that students should learn the language, which enables active participation in working life, everyday life and social life – must be protected and be at the top of employment policy objectives alone. There are many shortcomings in today's SFI training, and the training is often criticised, even by us. At the same time, there are many examples that it works well around the country and that SFI has played a crucial role in including people in society. Basically, I would say that in many cases criticism stems from the fact that SFI education has a very difficult task to carry out, and that the area has not been sufficiently prioritised politically either in terms of political substance or the distribution of resources. One consequence of this is that about 35 percent of those today who are teachers at SFI have the authority to teach. That is why we believe that there is a need for a general upgrading of skills. My speaking time has now run out, so I will try to shorten the speech quite substantially. I would like to conclude by talking about the right to SFI. As you know, the right to study SFI applies from the day you have been granted a residence permit and that new arrivals have been registered in a municipality. The Left Party has long pushed the demand to reintroduce SFI from day one. The Left Party has pushed this issue because we believe that asylum seekers should be allowed to read Swedish from the day they submit their asylum application in Sweden. A project called Swedish from day one was introduced the other year as a compromise between the government and the Left Party. The reform provided resources for the study associations to conduct Swedish education for asylum seekers in the form of a study circle. It's been very good. It's a welcome bet. But it cannot be equated with or replaced with SFI. Therefore, the law must be changed so that the education is made available from day one. In order to tackle the shortcomings of the SFI, we believe, education needs to be fundamentally reformed, and sufficient resources must be made available. We will continue to fight for that. I'm sorry I've been running out of time. I call for the Left Party's reservation 20 to be approved.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-486	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the proposal in the committee's report and reject all motions. Madam President, I would like Why is adult education important? And why is community support for adult education important? One short answer is that adult education is a necessity in a modern knowledge society where the need for knowledge and competence is constantly changing and evolving, mainly because society, Sweden as a country and the world are changing. Another answer is that adult education is important to provide a basis for work, a platform for further studies or the path to a new profession. A third reason is the needs of the labour market and the shortage of labour in certain occupations. While we have unemployment, the number of vacancies is increasing. At the moment there are about 100 000 vacancies in Sweden. A large number of recruitment attempts fail because unemployed people do not have the skills they need. In this case, matching in the labour market must work better and people must have the opportunity to acquire the skills needed. This is also the background to the fact that, since it took office, the government has carried out an extensive expansion of adult education and this year and the coming years are completing this initiative. It can be compared with and contrasted with what happened under the former bourgeois government. One of the first decisions taken was to significantly reduce the number of places in municipal adult education and to reduce the possibility of reading up their qualifications for further studies. Adult education had to adapt most to the economic situation. In recession and financial crisis, the number of places increased, and when times improved, the places were reduced. For the municipalities responsible for carrying out the training, the consequences were a twitch in the planning and uncertainty as to how long the state aid would last. The result was that adult education was pulled down and doors closed for those who wanted to study. In the 2018 budget, this government reported a knowledge boost for Sweden that includes 78,000 state-funded places of education in regional vocational adult education, in universities of applied sciences, in folk high schools and in universities and colleges. Adult vocational training is being expanded with more than 30 000 places in a new regional form in order to better meet labour market needs, to combat a shortage of skilled labour and to provide opportunities for retraining or to complement an earlier training. It also includes resources to both strengthen the quality of education and broaden supply. It is about continuing the expansion of the successful university of applied sciences, whose courses provide qualified professional competence and can meet skills shortages, thus giving students jobs and companies the opportunity to grow. Fully expanded 2022, the University of Applied Sciences will have been expanded by approximately 14 000 places beyond what has been previously decided. The effort at folk high schools continues. This means more places on general and special courses but also on the study-motivating courses. Madam President, I would like Students in Komvux often want vocational training that leads to work as soon as possible. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop national professional packages that can lead to faster ways to work. As a result of this work, there are now 51 different national professional packages that can be used in municipal adult education. The packages contain a combination of courses to meet the skills requirements of the labour market. And they have been developed together with industries and industry representatives. These are packages of vocational training in health care, construction, industry and various services in the service sector. A person who chooses to take such a national professional package can be sure that the training consists of courses that meet the requirements for obtaining employment. The package can also lead, through additional build-up courses, to a secondary school degree – if you don't already have one. This is an innovative, exciting and flexible way to train in shortage professions, meet the needs of the labour market and get national equivalent requirements in education. Madam President, I would like As a social democrat, I am proud of the efforts now being made on adult education opportunities. At the same time, I am a little concerned about the proposals made by the bourgeois parties to once again reduce the ambitions of adult education. Moderates and even more liberals wanted in their draft budgets to reduce resources to professional adults. Liberals wanted more than half the government's proposal for an initiative. Instead, both parties are launching the construction of a new school form, a vocational school, but with a slightly different focus. The Swedish Democrats did not propose any changes in the appropriations for adult education. However, they proposed savings of nearly SEK 13 billion in funding to the municipalities. Then there is every reason to be concerned about the whole of adult education in Sweden. Now we're about to have a choice. Of course, it raises questions about what will happen to adult education and the knowledge boost, should there be a change of government. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Alliance representatives: Will the Alliance return to seeing adult education as an activity that will increase in bad times and disappear better? Or should we continue to create permanent places in regional adult education? These are places where you can train for lack of jobs, meet the needs of companies for skills and solve matching problems in the labour market. What will happen to the regional professional adult now established between many different municipalities in the same labour market region and meeting the needs of businesses? Will they remain, and will they evolve? What are the alliance parties' views on the professional packages? Will they remain in a possible change of government? And if so, will they be able to be used as intended in municipal adult education, as a quick way into the labour market? Or do you intend to spend several years investigating, preparing, deciding on and then building a new school form – vocational school – that will offer the same things already offered today in regional adult education, and at the same time as matching problems in the labour market are growing? The opinion of the Social Democrats is that education should be accessible to everyone throughout life. This requires more places, more opportunities for education throughout the country, more ways in and adult education opening doors. In this way unemployment can be broken. In this way, more people can gain access to the labour market or continue their studies. In this way, we also increase the freedom of people and individuals. We need good adult education. I received a direct question from Ulrika about our announcement of post-secondary education for special school students. I'd like to answer that. It was an important discussion we had. Representatives from both the Social Democrats and the Center Party were deeply involved in the matter. Now the investigator responsible for reviewing the legal framework for municipal adult education in various ways has received an additional assignment which also concerns this particular issue. The study will present a final report at the end of August this year. After that comes preparation, consultation procedure and such. This means that the issue will not be resolved during this term of office. But I believe that the discussion and the questions will be very lively, both in the consultation work and in the continued discussion between the parties in the Education Committee. So the question is on the roll. I wanted to answer that because it was a joint announcement and an important issue involving many people. I'm sorry if I've been running out of time. But when the heart is full of something, it happens sometimes.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-514	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Håkan Bergman for his reply. It is a very important issue and, as Mr Bergman said, an issue in which there is broad political agreement. Several representatives of our committees and of our parties have worked hard on this issue for many years. It feels good that the investigation will come up with some kind of report at the end of August. Håkan Bergman also asked the alliance parties how we will strengthen adult education in the future, not least vocational adult education and university of applied sciences. For the Center Party, the answer is that it is extremely important that there is competence provision and that individuals are given the opportunity to develop in different ways. Then I will move on to my own question in this change of line. Håkan Bergman mentions the need for regional professional experience, precisely in order to meet the needs of working life and the labour market in many different parts of Sweden and that it can look different. As far as universities of applied sciences are concerned, the Centre Party highlights the need for regional review. It is an issue that we have discussed in various forums where we have met in the past, including outside this House. At the outset, the majority of the committee simply says that it is proposing to reject the motions. However, the committee's position does not return in any way to the problems that exist in various places in Sweden. Social Democratic representatives have also raised it in sports, not least small businesses' need for good skills supply and students at polytechnic level in different parts of Sweden. But this also applies to the great opportunities that exist throughout our country, but which may not receive sufficient support in the review in which metropolitan regions dominate. How does Håkan Bergman view it?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-518	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the Center Party's answers to my questions. I asked them because last week the alliance parties announced that they are going to form a joint government. From what I understand, the alliance parties are also going to educate key people about the policies that were conducted during the previous period. I suppose it will be people who were active then who will lead those training courses. I also assume that some of the members of the Education Committee may be involved as key persons in this type of training. Then it is interesting to ask: How will the Alliance as a whole approach this? Right now you have some different proposals and are moving in a slightly different direction when it comes to adult education. I think it is important to see that this government has carried out a very extensive extension of adult education and has moved on to a line with more permanent training places. Regionalisation of vocational adult education and training has also been built. Then it may be important to know if it will remain. Will it continue to develop? That was the reason for my question. Thank you for your response from the Center Party. We will have to come back to that in the discussion. As far as universities of applied sciences are concerned, there is probably a discussion in all parties about the need for polytechnic places in different parts of the country and the need for a balance between them. We Social Democrats have a very lively discussion of this kind. My answer is about the purpose of the university of applied sciences...
i-b2896e0a90812e35-524	Madam President, I would like Then I'll have to wait with excitement for the answer in the next line from Håkan Bergman. If there is such a lively discussion within the Social Democrats, it surprises me that the majority does not mention and problematise in the committee's position by a single letter. It also surprises me that you do not choose to lift that part and that you do not highlight and show that you see the discussion and the need that exists around the country. It is clear that we, from the alliance parties, and not least from the Center Party, want to build a structure for the provision of skills throughout the country. Håkan Bergman at least pretends to be worried about what will remain when there is a new government after the election. There is every reason to look after reforms that are good, whether they come from political opponents. I see no reason to pull my feet away for what benefits the supply of skills and is good for strengthening competence in different parts of Sweden. I will come back to my question about the University of Applied Sciences. Why not describe with a letter that you see the problamt and have some kind of thought in the future how to meet that need? There are sometimes very narrow niche courses that can be found anywhere in Sweden and that then get a national spread. But then there are other elements where there is a regional logic where there would be a need for another form of skills development and further training. In order to meet this need, the level of polytechnic education is therefore required. I would very much like Håkan Bergman to dwell on my question during his two minutes. I'll take this opportunity to ask you one more question. How has guidance been used to enable adult education students to understand all 51 different packages? It can certainly be commendable that there are many different things, but what guidance efforts have you made to meet this?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-529	Madam President, I would like The answer to the last question is that these packages have just been produced. They will be available for use in regional vocational adult education and in municipal adult education. Then guidance and other things will be done. The University of Applied Sciences has a very clear mission, and I think it is important to stick to that mission. The university of applied sciences must meet skills gaps and ensure that qualified vocational training is provided to meet labour market needs in these areas. You should also keep a high quality. These are the two goals that the University of Applied Sciences has to work with. The conditions for educational providers are different in Sweden. That is what the trainings are being tested against. Yrkeshögskolan has operations all over the country. If you do not have enough participants in a course but there is still a great need to arrange such a polytechnic education and if other factors are crucial, the basic requirements are to meet the labour market needs of qualified vocational training, and we will...
i-b2896e0a90812e35-533	Madam President, I would like I almost think it's a little cute that Håkan Bergman is so worried about how we on the alliance side should be able to cooperate. I'm not worried at all. Rather, I find it rather strange that we have such incredibly similar proposals, although we are four different parties that do not sit together in a government – especially given how disunited the current government can be. You're still in a government with each other. We don't. One thing that I hear repeatedly in this House from the Social Democrats and which is beginning to disturb me quite properly is that we are said to have cut down on places within and funds for adult education. That's not true. I think we can stick to the truth. I'm sure there's a lot of things you can criticize the Moderates for. We belong to two different parties, so there is also much that we can debate and have different views on. But sticking to the truth is a rather low minimum threshold that you should stay over. To clarify, I'll tell you what's the truth. It is that after several years of social democratic governance – when in the 1990s adult education had been severely cut and turned from targeted support to more general support, if you want targeted or general support can be debated – the alliance government removed targeted support for specific adult education and gave it to the municipalities as a whole, as the government itself now does in several areas. So this money could be redirected and spent on pupils trained in upper secondary education, for example. In this way, the stakes could come a little earlier.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-536	Madam President, I would like It's good that you think I'm cute when I ask you questions if you can cooperate or not. The reason why I am asking these questions is that I am concerned about the consequences of the major change that has now been made, if you break up the knowledge transfer and the efforts that are now being made to increase municipal adult education, to broaden the supply of professional adult education and to give more opportunities to get into work. Then I can see that it's sprawling in all directions. You have different suggestions. Two parties are launching a vocational school that is likely – as I see it – to be implemented in regional vocational training. Is this going to be done again? Are the conditions for regional and municipal adult education to change again? I am therefore concerned that this will lead to continued matching problems in the labour market. That is my complete conviction. That's why I asked the questions. It wasn't by any general sweetness. What happened after the last elections was that the consequence of the decisions taken by the Alliance government was the disappearance of more than 15 000 places of study in municipal adult education. Municipalities reduced their opportunities to offer adult education. It was the result of the decisions taken by the government and implemented. I don't think Ida Drougge was in the last term of office, but we saw...
i-b2896e0a90812e35-540	Madam President, I would like What is right in this is very true that we gave municipalities more funds and more opportunity to decide for ourselves how these funds should be used on the educational side. You should go in with bets already when the students went to high school so that they didn't drop out and thus didn't have to start at komvux. The funds could also be spent directly on komvux. Therefore, the number of places at Komvux and places and interventions at upper secondary school varied. In addition, different regions did in different ways. This was needed at the time because the large part of those studying in Komvux consisted of those who had dropped out of high school. Today, we are spending more money in the form of targeted state grants to professional adults and the SFI, because that target group is larger. They don't go to high school. So it is natural to think differently and also to do differently today. To be honest, we want to build on what this government has done well. It has put forward proposals for a professional package. I can reassure Håkan Bergman that we think it is good. This is in part exactly what we want to do with a vocational school. Nor do we think it is very important to determine exactly what the vocational school is: whether it is a form of school or whether it should be part of adult education. What is important is that young people under the age of 19 can also read there, because they cannot do so today in municipal adult education. Instead, they have to wait and get older, which is very unnecessary if they know from the start that they want this and rather quickly want to get a job. For example, you may come here and as new arrivals need to make a living. This is what we want to do. Behind the national frameworks that we want, there is a little bit the same idea that you have with regional vocation. There will be simpler rules for all those involved in training so that they can focus on content and quality instead. We want to move on with this.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-545	Madam President, I would like The fact remains: 15 000 places disappeared. At least it is my view that adult education over the years afterwards was a kind of cyclical activity. Places were added when times got worse, and places disappeared when times got a little better. This created a great twitchiness and uncertainty in the planning of the municipalities, as many municipal representatives from both bourgeois and social-democratically governed municipalities testify to. Now there is another approach. If adult education is important to meet the matching problem and to offer many a chance to acquire new vocational training, change their careers or whatever they want to do, a more permanent approach to the functioning of the education system is needed. I am pleased that at least the Moderates have begun to see that in the discussion there can be crystallized a development of adult education that makes it really meets the needs of the labour market and gives people a very great freedom to educate themselves later in life if they have such needs. If so, it is positive. But you are four parties to agree on this. I do not want to point out any particular party, but there are parties that have more far-reaching savings and changes in vocational training. Therefore, there is still reason to keep the discussion alive. As far as the professional packages are concerned, there's...
i-b2896e0a90812e35-549	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll let Håkan Bergman finish his sentence and what he wanted to say before he starts answering my questions. Maybe we can coordinate like that. Håkan Bergman is actually a much better politician and debater than he was just when he walked as low as he did to the Swedish Democrats. We have heard so many times the debate that we have taken money and that we are not giving anything back. Madam President, I would like Let me be extremely educational. Mattias Karlsson, the group leader of the Swedish Democrats, once had a very good presentation. I don't remember if it was on our country days or if it was any other time. At least he tried to explain this in an educational way. By chance, I have accidentally brought a Smurf, which I hold up here. With the help of this smurf I will try to explain what Mattias Karlsson tried to explain. He said: Yes, we take 13 billion from the municipalities. We'll take them and move into state ownership. When we have this money in government ownership, we earmark it and ensure that we have proper stimulus contributions that go to actual things that contribute. Then we add these contributions to the business again. This smurf may thus illustrate that the Swedish democrats take money but then add exactly the same amount back. We only control them from the state's side. It is with an honour that I hand over the Smurf to Håkan, Madam President, so that in future he will always be reminded of this debate.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-555	Madam President, I would like A Smurf in this design is a fantasy figure. I would say that Stefan Jakobsson's argumentation and the Swedish Democrats' draft budget are also something of a fantasy product. You are cutting 13 billion on public subsidies to municipalities. I believe that the idea is that the municipalities should bear the costs of integration, establishment and reception of refugees, which I very much believe is a state responsibility. The consequences of this would be savings in welfare or other activities. Experience tells us that it protects first those activities that are legally bound and those that feel very keen to preserve, as every municipal politician knows. This has been done in all the savings. It protects the care of the elderly, the school and the basic welfare. In activities that are less restrictive or require less, savings can be made. Of course, it is good to say in its draft budgets that it supports the Government's efforts in regional vocational, polytechnic and municipal adult education, but then it has to make quite a lot of savings in another area that affects adult education. With these words, I would like to return the Smurf, the fantasy figure, to Stefan Jakobsson.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-560	Madam President, I would like Since in a previous debate we introduced the word a little bit, I would like to say that it was very sweet that I got the smurf back. I promise to repay it to my children who have forgotten this. I do not quite understand Mr Håkan's reasoning, Madam President. This is exactly what the Swedish Democrats want to do. We believe that the municipalities are not old enough to take care of this money. The fact that the Swedish Democrats are pushing the question that we want a government principal should not surprise anyone here at all. Let us look at what we are discussing today: the field of education. Håkan Bergman should be reassured, Madam President, that we are not taking any money from adult education. All we're doing is earmarking and steering them up so they'll probably get to the right things. In some areas related to adult education, including folk high schools and education that I spoke about before, we have seen how extremely bad things have gone when we do not steer them up with state funds. We have the examples of Brunnsvik and Studiefrämjandet in Västerbotten where we have seen how bad things can go when we do not have government control and control of the money. This is exactly what we want to do. We believe that some units are not in charge of taking care of this money. For years, for the Swedish Democrats, they have shown that they are not fit to do so. I'll keep the Smurf and promise to repay it to my children. I hope, however, that we can release this debate now, because we are not taking any money. We return them again, though earmarked.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-566	Madam President, I would like I am glad that I have this opportunity to sort out another thought that I thought was in Stefan Jakobsson's previous speech. It's about the perception of folk high school and public education. I think there was a very unfortunate, or perhaps conscious, confusion between what municipal adult education and folk high education are. Folkhögskolan can be part of the municipal adult education that exists, but this is done in a completely different way. They have grown up in a completely different way, and they have a way of working and a pedagogy that is different. I think it's good and valuable. It's been valuable to a lot of people. That is also why the government is investing in folk high schools. They have a very important task: to give people who may have been less successful in the regular school system a second chance to get an education. It is also a very good opportunity for new arrivals, who can take part in the activities of folk high schools. I think it is very important that peoples' education is free and that we use folk high schools, which have a very strong voluntary commitment in their structure. They should continue to develop and be a high quality alternative in education, but based on their specific characteristics. I am very concerned when I hear the Swedish Democrats' confusion between municipal adult education – komvux – regional vocational adult education and folk high schools.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-570	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by comforting Håkan Bergman. Alliance governments have improved Sweden in the past and will be able to do so in the autumn as well. It is not that there is a perfect construction that the Social Democracy has built up and that cannot be changed in anything. To answer the questions: I think that training efforts must vary with the economy. I do not think you can always have exactly the same conversion aid. When there is a greater need, for example in the event of a major international crisis, change efforts in society must be pursued. When things get a little better, we still need to maintain a transition effort, but we cannot have exactly as much as in recession or deep European crisis. I would like to say to Daniel Riazat that it is not the case that all bourgeois people are mean people who want to ensure that those who come as new to the country get low-wage jobs and get stuck in poverty. Nor is it that we believe that the purpose of education is for some to profit from profits at the expense of taxpayers. Some of my best friends work in adult education. I usually say that people are involved in social liberalism in practice. They give people a second, third or fourth chance. They ensure that those facing a change in the labour market are given a renewed chance to move on to a new job. They are the ones who ensure that people who did not succeed in high school get a second, third or fourth chance to succeed. They are the ones who make sure that people who want to change direction in life – not because society changes, but because they themselves change – get a new chance to deepen or broaden their knowledge. We have some different solutions. We have some different ideas. We have different priorities. But not all the good things in the world come from red - green parties. Madam President, I would like The difficult thing in this area is to combine flexibility with transparency. Because people are so very different and have so different conditions and needs, there is a need for a great deal of flexibility in adult education and labour market training. At the same time, a great deal of flexibility means that it is quite difficult to see which possibilities suit you. What compensations, grants and subsidies are entitled to? What study facilities are available if you attend the various courses? And what is the outcome of the training? What are their professional choices? That's a bit humble, I think. The need for flexibility sometimes makes the systems insurmountable. What the Alliance did that was so central and important in this area was to introduce the University of Applied Sciences, which is now hailed as a Social Democratic construction. We saw that there were several different types of education at the post-secondary level, which gave a rather difficult-to-transparent system. We brought them together to a university of applied sciences – in the autumn of 2009 I think it was – that made it much easier to combine flexibility and transparency. From the Liberals' side, we have been inspired so much by that that we imagine that perhaps the same could be done in the upper secondary field. That's what we call vocational education. We then take the success factors that we see in the university of applied sciences and use them also at the upper secondary level. Madam President, I would like In this report, we are also putting forward proposals to improve the SFI, which must be more linked to jobs and better linked to traineeships. It must be made easier to get SFIs with a professional orientation and to use SFIs aimed at shortage occupations to get into work more quickly. With this, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 21 on sfi.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-578	Madam President, I would like I thank Christer Nylander for entering the debate. I think it is important that the Liberals should also be included in this discussion. It is, of course, one of the parties that will be part of a possible new government. No, it is not that everything that the Social Democrats do is perfect. The changes proposed are not always quite as planned. This applies both to us and to you. We'll be so humble. Things need to change once they have been tested in practice. Politics is also about trying to see what we can learn and what we can do new. I reacted to Christer Nylander's thesis that the University of Applied Sciences would be the Alliance's construction and results. That's not really true. There was a very broad consensus on building on the qualified vocational training that already existed around the country. I would say that it was a Social Democratic proposal. But it was really based on such a need. This type of training was then built up. What we did not really think was that we should have a special authority in this form. But then the university of applied sciences has become a success story and a success story. I think there's a lot to learn from this and a lot to develop. I still think that the questions I have asked are unanswered.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-582	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear any question from Håkan Bergman. But I can ask him a question. Isn't it true that the university of applied sciences was established in 2009 and that we then had an alliance government? I think it is great that we had a broad consensus on the introduction of universities of applied sciences. I also think it would be interesting if we could now have a broad consensus on learning from those experiences and consider whether this can also be used at upper secondary level, not only at university level. The finess of the university of applied sciences is that it is closely linked to the labour market and for that very reason gives very good results. I could imagine doing the same at upper secondary level. I think you can get a very good result there too, and I think we really need it.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-584	Madam President, I would like I thought that Christer Nylander might remember the questions I put to all the alliance parties in my speech. Should we now move away from the focus on permanent professional adult education, compux for all, further efforts at polytechnics and the construction of a regional adult education organisation? Shouldn't we use the professional packages that the National Agency for Education has developed? I believe that they are exciting and innovative and can lead us to solve the problem of getting a faster exit into the labour market, giving people jobs and solving educational shortages. I think it is rather foolish to then start thinking about completely new school forms in order to be able to solve the problems that really the knowledge lift and regional professional adult have to solve. I was amused to look at the constituency of Christer Nylander and what is being done there in regional professional practice. Almost all municipalities are now part of a cooperation to build up regional adult education with a wide range of training courses linked to the labour market regions to which the municipalities belong. Some target Helsingborg and the labour market. Others target Kristianstad and are part of that labour market. It is an exciting path that you can continue to develop.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-586	Mr President, I would like to I agree. It is a good thing that there is regional dimensioning of adult education. I'll take all the questions right away. Labour market efforts must vary with economic cycles. It's no wonder. We're going to have a high minimum. However, if something happens in the Swedish economy, in the European economy or in the world economy, we need to adapt and speed up efforts to meet this. Komvux should not be for everyone but for everyone who wants and needs it. We have also introduced these possibilities. The university of applied sciences must have high ambitions, and we shall continue to expand it. At the same time, it should happen at a pace if we maintain quality. The finess of the University of Applied Sciences is that it matches and thus has very good results. The professional packages are interesting. They are quite similar to what the Liberals and other parties have proposed that we have shorter vocational training courses at upper secondary level. As I said, the dimension must be adapted. Nevertheless, I would like to advise Håkan Bergman about a rhetorical trick that the Social Democrats tend to use against the Alliance when it comes to tax cuts. You add up all the tax proposals that the Moderates have, as the Center has, that the Liberals have and everyone that the KD has. Then you count it together and say: This is what the Alliance wants to reduce the tax by. I would suggest that Håkan Bergman and the Social Democrats do the same when it comes to dimensioning adult education. Put together the proposals that the Moderates have, as the Center Party has, that the Liberals have and that the Christian Democrats have. Then you can say: This is what the Alliance wants to invest in higher education for adults.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-592	Mr President, I would like to You have to admire Christer Nylander's rhetorical skills, given that when it comes to politics he is out riding. I want to ask Christer Nylander a question. It's about the profit hunt in welfare. You and I have had that debate very many times. We will continue to have that debate as long as there are representatives in Sweden's highest decision-making body defending a system that is very extreme. As a result, people are being squeezed and resources are being lost from our well-being. I will continue to raise this issue. In spite of all the evidence and all sorts of documentaries and programs that have revealed various abuses in private adult education operators, why is it that Christer Nylander and his party can still defend the prize hunt that is nowhere else in the world? Why should Sweden be so unique compared to the rest of the world just when it comes to that question? Why is it so important to ensure that billions of our tax dollars disappear from Sweden? Why does Christer Nylander think it's important? What you mentioned at the outset was that the purpose of your policy is not to defend the pursuit of profit itself. It is about you wanting the system that you advocate. And yet that's what you're doing. Why can't you agree to put an end to rogue actors? I wonder.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-597	Mr President, I would like to I can start by asking a counter-question. How is it that Daniel Riazat, after all the reports, all the facts and all the media reviews of municipal activities that do not work and do not deliver, still defends that municipal activities should remain? Because he thinks it's important that they exist. I think it's important that they exist. But I want them to be supplemented. Other actors can add something that the local authorities cannot. It is a question of flexibility, transparency or, for example, a close link with the industry. It is possible that there are those who pursue profit. The people I meet, whether they work in municipal operations or in independent operations, pursue knowledge and success stories for the people who go with them. The picture that Daniel Riazat is so happy to draw can be found in some individual case. Then we will fight it by having very high quality requirements, very clear inspection and very clear sanctions against those who misbehave. Nevertheless, let us take advantage of the power of all those people who are looking for opportunities and abilities in people who want to retrain. Let's work to find it instead of focusing in all posts on that there are some that you think aren't doing well.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-600	Mr President, I would like to There is absolutely a need for many measures to be taken in municipal activities. This applies both to the rest of the school system and to adult education. The rhetorical trick we can remove. We can also remove the rhetorical trick that involves us in the red-green parties somehow turning against the staff who want to make success stories. No, it's the other way around. Moreover, the majority of these people also vote for red-green parties. They don't even agree with Christer Nylander on the issue of the prize hunt. There is also another group that disagrees with Christer Nylander about the prize hunt. It is about the Liberals' own voters. A majority of the voters of both the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Centre Party and the Liberals are against the pursuit of profit in welfare. One might again wonder: Why does Christer Nylander not want to put an end to rogue actors if it is not such a big issue? We can agree to address all the problems that exist in municipal operations. Why, then, can Christer Nylander not agree with me here and now that we should also ensure that we stop the players who are looking to make a profit? If they are so few, what is it that Christer Nylander is so afraid of? What is it that makes you run the so-called few actors' dossiers rather than take responsibility and ensure that you pursue a policy that leads to an education system for all and not just for those that can profit from? I mean, it's irresponsible. Now Christer Nylander will prepare a final post that is purely rhetorical and does not contain an answer at all. I would like you to be able to show, perhaps at some point, to your own electorate the respect to tell them why you think it is so important that resources are removed from our welfare.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-606	Mr President, I would like to I'll give you a very open, honest and serious answer. I want to stop rogue actors. I am making proposals to stop rogue actors. I propose stricter inspection and stricter measures for those who are not doing well. I do so in this House and in motions with the Alliance. We want to stop rogue actors.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-607	Mr President, I would like to If a researcher wants to conduct research on people, they must apply for something called ethical review. This is regulated by law and always applies, regardless of whether the research is carried out on deceased persons or involves the handling of sensitive personal data. The ethical review requirements are important, and that is a good thing. Unfortunately, however, the case of the researcher and Karolinska Institutet's visiting professor Paolo Macchiarini showed that the current system does not work optimally. To restore confidence in medical research, the government has therefore proposed a change in the organisation of the currently operating ethics review boards so that they will gather under a single new authority. It's supposed to be called the Ethical Review Authority. We in the Alliance, that is, the Moderates, Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats, welcome the new order and amendment proposed by the government. However, given that the regional councils will remain, albeit under a different name and in another organisation, the alliance parties believe that it is appropriate for a change of this kind to be evaluated in order to achieve the aim of greater efficiency and uniform application of the acquis. We support this view; the pharmaceutical industry, among others, is pressing for this in its referral. But the government, together with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, says no. We find it remarkable, not least in view of the great strain and negative publicity that Sweden, and the Karolinska Institutet, have received as a result of Macchiarinis's unethical practices. Mr President, I would like to Anyone who has ever come into contact with systematic quality work knows that continuous monitoring and evaluations are important tools for achieving the intended effect. The fact is that we have debaters from the Education Committee who, in other contexts here this morning, have expressed the wish that one and the other should be evaluated. I think that is right, because this is always the case. Therefore, it should also be applied to the important change that the amendment of the Law on Ethics Review of Human Research involves – especially as the Law Council has not even had the opportunity to comment on the amendment. The Moderates, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats therefore support our reservation in the report. We hope for a concrete response from a majority of the Swedish Parliament, which opposes our demands for evaluation and follow-up of this major legislative change.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-613	Mr President, I would like to For a society to be democratic and characterised by human rights, society and we as citizens of society must be guided by good ethical principles. This also applies to the research that concerns people and that this report deals with. We can only think of the debate that followed in the wake of the so-called Macchiarini scandal so that everyone knows what we are talking about and how important it is that research is guided by good ethical principles. We therefore need to clarify even more the ethical principles that guide all research. It is not just a question of incorporating these principles intellectually, but also of establishing an organisational structure and systematics that ensure that the necessary ethical principles are respected and followed by the actors in research. It is gratifying that a unanimous committee both welcomes and supports the Government's proposal for a new structure for the organisation of this ethical review. The proposal, as has just been mentioned, means that the current six Regional Ethics Review Boards will be dismantled and that ethical review of human research will instead be handled by a new authority, the Ethical Review Authority. Although the amendment of the law means that the ethical review should be handled within a single authority, rather than by the current six regional authorities, the benefits of the current decentralisation are retained by dividing the Ethical Review Authority into operational regions with one or more departments. It is also an advantage that the ethical review of research should, as a general rule, be randomly distributed between the departments of the Agency and outside the region of activity to which the research leader belongs or where the research is to be carried out. It eliminates the risk of conflict situations and results in a more balanced division of labour between the different departments. It is particularly important to note that this legislative amendment provides the conditions for a more uniform, equivalent, legally secure and effective management of the regulatory framework across the country. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, I believe that the reservation of the four bourgeois parties is a bit like breaking open doors. Reservers state in their reservation that a clear mandate to ensure national cohesion and consistency in case management and decision-making between regions is also needed for the governance that is now being proposed. That is exactly what the government writes in its own bill! There is no need to repeat what the government has already said. Dismantling six Regional Ethics Review Boards and replacing them with a single authority means that it is quite likely that case handling will be more uniform and legally secure. It's in the nature of things. Furthermore, the four bourgeois parties state that the government should give a clear mandate to the new ethics review authority to follow up the work on such rules of procedure and to ensure that the new organisation as a whole is also monitored and evaluated. Excuse me, Mr President, but for me this is an unnecessary political clout. We can see that the practice of ethics reviews will continue for many years, but now in a more clear and uniform administrative structure. To then urge the government to give the new ethics review authority a clear mandate to follow up the work will be a bit like declaring the authority unauthorized. Do the reservists really think that the new Ethics Review Authority would ignore following up on its work in a new agency structure? And would the government fail to follow up and evaluate a new government structure? Is it your own experience from eight years with a bourgeois government that makes you insist on this? Think, I believe that all governments, regardless of their political colours, are careful to follow up and evaluate their decisions. In this context, I would also like to refer to the government's regulatory letter to the regional ethics review boards that currently exist. These are applicable for the current financial year. There are clear objectives and reporting requirements to the government. I do not think the government will miss making the same demands for reporting back to a new authority. In addition, the agency's annual report provides the government with a basis for monitoring and controlling the agency's activities. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-626	Mr President, I would like to It may seem a bit overwhelming to ask for a reply on this issue, but it is important in principle. I note that Thomas Strand, above all, dwells on everything that we agree on. We agree on the new structure. Thomas Strand also says that there are conditions for us to have a higher degree of efficiency and equivalence. But the fact is that a precondition is also not reason to be sure and safe and certain that this was the case, and that is what we from the alliance parties want to be evaluated and monitored. These are important things, and I think it is being handled a little casually in view of the experience we have today with the Paolo Macchiarini affair, which has powerfully blackened down some of the medical research in Sweden. We cannot afford that, and so it is important that we also land correctly and see that the new organisation is to the fullest. The fact is, Thomas Strand, that the new organisation is essentially based on exactly the same structure as today. The only difference is that the six ethics review boards are merged and entered under a hat. That is why it is important that we can see that when they work locally and regionally, they actually have rules of procedure that work and that equivalence can be anticipated. This is important, and that is why we have called for this reservation.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-630	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the question! We all agree, especially in view of the debate we have had since the Macchiarini scandal, that we need to tighten up the regulatory framework for ethical review. It is therefore gratifying that all parties in the committee agree that there is a need for a tightening-up. We also know that we have a large, strong support from the sector precisely around the need for a tightening up of the regulatory framework. It goes without saying that each government imposes requirements on authorities via regulatory letters, requires re-accounting and receives annual reports. This means that it is in the nature of the matter that you follow your decisions and the decisions made in the Riksdag. I cannot help but interpret it as saying that Betty Malmberg and the bourgeois reservists, based on their own experience with eight years of government, do not trust the government to follow up its decisions. That's why you come with a reservation that I actually think is both a bit unnecessary and a little tricky.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-633	Mr President, I would like to This is not an unnecessary political failure. Both Thomas Strand and I know that governments do not always choose to follow up their decisions. That is also why we in the committees have an increased responsibility for this function today compared with what has been done in the past, and we have also jointly conducted many important analyses of evaluation and follow-up in the Committee on Education. Returning to this particular subject, there is certainly a great deal of consensus, and we are all in agreement, but the fact is that the pharmaceutical industry is also concerned that it will not be an equivalent assessment. That is what we want to ensure. À la bonne heure – if it is that this will be the most amazing authority where everything will work, it is not a problem. If so, an evaluation may show that this was a first-class decision. But that is what we would like to have covered.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-636	Mr President, I would like to We have the order in our parliamentary and government work that the government submits proposals and the Riksdag makes decisions. The Riksdag then follows the decisions made, and the Government executes things and directs its authorities via regulatory letters and demands for restatements. I mean it's a good and good order that you shouldn't put them on your nose in a reservation. About the change that is now taking place, the government itself says in its proposal that it becomes a more uniform, equivalent, legally secure and effective management of the regulations. This is said after listening to the referrals that came into the legislative referral, so this is a clear emphasis on that we should have a strengthened regulatory framework that provides better conditions for researchers to comply with the rules that apply. Each government authority also has quality work that means that they follow up on their procedures and handling of cases. I am therefore quite sure that this will be much better than it is now. One may never be sure of it to a hundred per cent, but Betty Malmberg and I and the other members of the Riksdag are closely monitored and demands are made. I therefore still think that this reservation is a little unnecessary, a little tricky and detailed.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-642	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating MJU9 Nature conservation and protection and MJU10 Biodiversity. I support the committee's proposal in report MJU9. I would also like to support Amendment No 4 to the MJU10 and the other points to be approved by the committee. In recent years, the government has made major efforts for protection and management of a valuable nature. We are doing this because it is important for biodiversity but also for meeting the commitments we have committed ourselves to. The government has increased the appropriations by large amounts. In the grant for protection of a valuable nature, we note that 90% of the 2016 grant has been used to compensate landowners for the protection of valuable areas, which is welcome. Those of us who have been around for a while and worked at the local and regional level know that there has been a queue for this money, and landowners have had to wait several years for the land compensation to be completed. In 2016, 637 decisions had been taken or agreements had been concluded with landowners on land compensation. These decisions and agreements cover 73 000 hectares, compared to 542 cases and 13 000 hectares in 2014. It is therefore a rather sharp increase which shows that the government takes the matter seriously and that it is unreasonable for landowners to have to wait several years for compensation. We're not there, but we've come a long way. The government also has proposals in t to establish a new national park – Åsnen – in Kronoberg County. I am very happy about that, and it will have great significance for the county I come from. Many have waited a long time for this to become a reality, not least many entrepreneurs. Much is under way to develop tourism and to get more visitors to the area. Many have also worked for a very long time to make it a reality. It is also important to preserve biodiversity in the area. I can't help but mention that Huseby Castle is adjacent to the National Park, and since Antikrundan went on TV, nobody knows where Huseby Castle is. You are cordially invited to visit both Huseby Castle and the National Park, which will be inaugurated on 25 May! Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party has a request for dynamic nature conservation, which means that previous decisions will be evaluated and, if necessary, reviewed or amended to ensure that decisions continue to contribute to the protection of valuable environments. What does the Center Party mean by dynamic nature conservation? Has the wrong nature been protected? Is protective nature no longer worthy of protection? What is dynamic – that one can change nature conservation according to one's own opinion? There are already rules on how to change decisions on natural areas, and when decisions on nature conservation have been taken, it is by definition something that is worthy of protection. I do not quite understand what the Center Party means by this motion. Beach protection has been on the table for as long as I have been politically active. Many people think that you should change the beach protection rules. Yes, beach protection is an important issue, but I do not think it solves rural problems. It can be a small part but not the only solution as it sometimes sounds. We also know that changing the legislation does not always help. Changing the interpretation of public authorities requires new legislation. Everyone in Parliament knows that. Mr President, I would like to There is extensive work going on to renovate the state led system in the mountains and elsewhere. It is financed under appropriation 1:3 Measures for valuable nature. There, the government has put nearly 1 billion in new money to renovate our leads. Bridges and shingles have been built, signs have been cleared, signs have been improved and rest protection has been built. This has also provided many jobs. Green jobs are important for those furthest from the labour market. In this matter, voluntary work is also important, and many non-profit associations make it possible for there to be so many leaders in Sweden. The cross-country driving law is also addressed in the report. The Government intends to investigate further that it will be possible for people with functional variations to participate in hunting and fishing. We want a general permit, not the need to apply for a permit in each municipality. Mr President, I would like to The MJU10 report addresses many issues, namely biodiversity, invasive species, wildlife management delegations and changes to the Species and Habitats Directive. It is important to maintain biodiversity. Ten milestones were decided in 2012 and 2014. The Government decided on a control station in 2017 to follow up the targets. Important efforts have been made and are ongoing, but we need to do more for biodiversity and ecosystem services. The government has a high ambition, but we need to do even more. The game management delegations are also a dear subject in this House, and they have been debated extensively. The committee agrees that the work of the game management delegations should be evaluated in order to ensure regional influence. It is believed that the government has changed its balance. The government has already carried out an evaluation of the game management delegations, but this is clearly not enough. The evaluation showed that 61% of the members of the delegations identified themselves as hunters, which is no wonder in view of the mission. You choose people who have knowledge of the matter. At the same time, the work of the game management delegations is not only about hunting, but also about our forests being able to grow and our farmers and farmers being able to live in rural areas. I myself sit in the Viltförvaltningsdelegationen in Kronoberg County, and I note that the work there works well. However, I know that this is not the case everywhere. In fact, however, I cannot see what a new evaluation would do to ensure regional influence. There will be no less regional influence because there will be two more people from the region in the delegation. Then you might think that they do not represent what you want, but that does not affect regional influence. Some of the motions also concern the mandate for decision-making in the delegations. There I can agree that it is not quite clear in all parts. But we agree that it should be a regional administration, and I think that is important. Decisions shall be taken close to those concerned. Mr President, I would like to This report also addresses the issue of our predators. It is also a popular issue in this House – an eternal issue. We agree that decisions should be taken regionally, and that is what is being done today. We have also come to order on this issue, that is to say, decisions are taken in good time so that the appeal process can be completed before the hunt begins. It is also the same court that decides the matter. As regards the number of shells in bear hunting, the Ministry of Industry has presented a memorandum on amendments to the hunting regulation. It recommends that the matter be examined by the same authority, and it is considered that the County Administrative Board is appropriate to examine the matter. The memo has been referred. The issue will be dealt with in the Weapons Directive, which will also address the issue of silencers. The directive will be discussed later this autumn, not during this parliamentary year. Hopefully there is agreement on these issues, and they are dealt with by the Committee on Justice. In the exercise on the issue of county minimum levels for the minimum number of rejuvenations of certain predators, it is proposed that these be replaced by common minimum levels for each administrative area. The government is currently preparing such a letter that suggests exactly what the exerciseist wants.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-664	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a fantastic nature with a rich biodiversity. It is a diversity that is important to protect not only because it is important ecologically but also because it plays a role in economic and social matters. The loss of biodiversity is leading to significant losses. Nature's factory – if one can make such a parable – is constantly running and delivers the most basic services such as air and water purification, as well as the production of crops for what we are going to eat and timber that we can use for most things. Our economy, our prosperity and our lives also require the services that our ecosystems produce to function. A functioning ecosystem must contain all gears, that is to say, biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to Are there any who understand the complex picture is the Swedish landowner. They, if any, understand that there is no economic activity on a dead planet. Therefore, you also use your land with great care. Short-term costs are taken to invest in long-term use. What you own, you care for. I think that Sweden's land and forest owners really show this. Many of them also make investments that they themselves will not be allowed to realise. The lack of ownership often leads to predatory exploitation of natural resources and, in the long run, ecological impoverishment. A clear example of this is another subject that our committee often debates, namely fisheries policy. Today, about 80 percent of the world's fish stocks are either overexploited or maximum fished. This is largely the result of nobody owning the stocks. It is a so-called tragedy of the commons; common resources tend to be overexploited. If, for example, there are no transferable fishing quotas, there is an incentive to try to fish the resource yourself before a competitor can do so. Protecting property rights will therefore, in a way, be a safeguard of sustainable use. Given this insight, there is reason to question, or at least to problematise, what in Swedish politics is a constant endeavour, namely to exclude more and more land from farming and increase the area of formally protected land. There are absolute reasons why land should be excluded from farming, but sometimes in the debate, especially when you listen to environmentalists and left-wing parties, it sounds a little like it is Gud-given that nature conservation and biodiversity always improve if the land is taken from private landowners and excluded from farming. But that is not the case. Now, Mr President, we are debating, as Monica Haider mentioned earlier, two reports from the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, on the one hand MJU9 Nature conservation and protection and on the other hand MJU10 Biodiversity. It is good that we have the debate in common because these are matters that are intimately linked. The goal on which we broadly agree in this House is for Sweden to protect and actively work for biodiversity at home and internationally. Then different forms of site protection are tools to achieve the objectives. The point of my previous reasoning is that the establishment of a nature reserve, for example, is not an end in itself but a tool for achieving goals. My point is that sometimes it's the right thing to do, but far from always the right thing to do. Some species and habitats need land that is allowed to develop freely while others need farming and care. Let me take agricultural land as an example. In order to meet the environmental quality objective A rich agricultural landscape is not less but more farming needed. The last in-depth evaluation of the target, carried out in 2015, concludes that maintaining active agriculture throughout the country is a key problem. That is why I believe that the costs of Swedish agriculture need to be reduced and competitiveness strengthened. Therefore, Sweden needs a new moderate-led alliance government that can make a workshop of the food strategy's beautiful words and give Swedish agriculture better opportunities to exist throughout the country and on an international market. Mr President, I would like to The various forms of protection that exist must be well designed and used wisely. We are seeing some problems here today. In particular, the rules on beach protection must be fundamentally reformed. I have to say that the government has so far not accepted the majority of Parliament. Parliament has made announcements that there is a need for more flexible beach protection, but the government has chosen not to do anything about that issue. In the case of other formally protected land, and particularly forest land, which is often the focus of our debate on biodiversity, it is for us moderates that it is essential to strive for biotop protection areas, for example, to be added at the initiative of the landowner. The Alliance successfully introduced the so-called Comet model, which in 2017 was permanentized and introduced throughout the country. Already we can see quite good results in the form of increased protection of forests with high natural values that come from the interest and commitment of landowners. The great commitment shown by Sweden's approximately 330 000 forest owners to nature conservation and increased biodiversity must be safeguarded and acknowledged. This commitment is crucial for Sweden to be able to meet its high environmental objectives. Therefore, I and my whole party, the Moderates, are very concerned that, among other things, the Species Protection Regulation and the classification of Key Biotopes are being applied in a way that penalises landowners who have carried out and carry out forestry activities that have created or created high natural values in a way through restrictions on their ownership and use rights. We have been pushing for a long time for a review of both the Species Protection Regulation and the application of the key biotope concept, and we will continue to do so even after the autumn elections. For us moderates, it goes without saying that we must have predictable, legally secure regulations that also create incentives for the continued development of nature conservation work in forestry. It is very worrying that we have a government that seems to be of a different opinion. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the moderate reservations in the reports, but for the time to come, I only ask for the approval of Amendment No 5 to the MJU10. That reservation is about the fact that we Moderates want to strengthen the game management delegations by changing the mandate, decision-making rights and composition of delegations. Having game strains in balance and a predatory policy with local and regional roots is important in the work on biodiversity. Therefore, the game management delegations themselves need to be able to decide on, inter alia, protection and licence hunting. At the initiative of the Alliance, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture wants the Riksdag to call on the Government to evaluate the work of wildlife management delegations in order to ensure regional influence. We believe that such an evaluation would be a good first step in doing what the Moderates want in the long run, namely strengthening the important work of delegations.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-680	Mr President, I would like to We also agree on a lot of things in this area, for example, that it is important to preserve biodiversity and that provisions for forests and other land are made voluntarily, but also in agreement with the state. If it is important and good that we preserve biodiversity, then I will be thoughtful when I look at the Moderates' budget. There is quite a bit of money in you for provisions to preserve, for example, forest. That is what we saw when we took office in this parliamentary term – it was a huge queue of money to conclude agreements with the state on, for example, nature reserves or areas that you want to preserve yourself. My question to Jesper is: how do you intend to cope with biodiversity when you have so little money for it in your budget?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-683	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Mr Haider for that question. The simple answer is that we do not want to exempt as much land as the government wants. The multiplied speed and large calls for nature conservation areas are not our way forward. As I said in the speaker's chair, we are convinced that biodiversity requires not only formal protection but also active use in many places. Therefore, there is no need for money, but rather for a reasonable opportunity for Swedish farmers and foresters to operate. So I do not see that the way forward must be formal protection. It may be a solution in some cases. Then, of course, compensation should be paid, and it should be reasonable. But it is not that the acceleration is something that we look at with gentle eyes and find completely unproblematic. I can't say I did.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-686	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson! What I am thinking about is how you expect us to live up to the commitments we have made on this issue, both nationally and internationally. We haven't done it so far. We are well on our way now, but do you not think in the Alliance or you in the Moderates that we should live up to the commitments we have made internationally?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-687	Mr President, I would like to Now this is a bit of a budget debate, and we usually have it in the autumn. I am surprised that the Social Democrats are beating their chest so much about how much money they can cut off in different budget areas. At one time there were Social Democrats who cared about financial stability. Göran Persson was one of those, and he could even lower his pensions to secure the treasury. Now we have another government, which has lowered the surplus target once more and wants to lower it once more. We have a government that is wasting time and thinks that the issue of financial stability is not so important. I come from a party that thinks it is all the more important. That is why we have a budget in which we devote EUR 10 billion more to the time to come when the economic cycle is reversed. It does so quite soon, probably at the end of this year, when we see that young and old are getting more and those who work fewer. So I'm not gonna stand here and try to get it to us to play bingo about who can bet the most. I do not think that is what this is about; I think that we need to have a comprehensive picture of economic policy, and then in Norrland we are not giving priority to labour market measures, for example, for young people, newcomers, old people, those who do not have education and single people. There will be a need for money for that, and that money is in our budget. That money is not in the Social Democrats' budget, and I think it is okay that there is such a difference between our proposals.
i-H2h7m7FQqBhRtEn4TR13CY	Mr President, I would like to We are debating nature conservation and biodiversity. We in Sweden Democrats are of course behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 8 on cross-country driving in MJU9 Nature conservation and protection and reservation 3 on the Species and Habitats Directive in MJU10 Biodiversity. As I said, we are debating two reports, which in many cases go into each other politically and decisively. Issues relating to nature conservation and biodiversity concern many areas, but in my speech I will focus mainly on the question of how property rights are threatened by the cleavage of environmentalist authorities and an absurd Swedish application of the Species and Habitats Directive. First of all, however, I would like to mention our reservation on an investigation into the cross-country driving law. It has its background in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's letter Proposal for a strategy for the environmental quality target Storslagen mountain environment, which highlights that the technical development of snowmobiles and a different way of driving has led to driving in previously unaffected areas. Every year, the number of quadricycles and snowmobiles is increased, leading to increased disturbances and injuries. Therefore, we believe that the Government needs to review the Off-road Driving Act and the Off-road Driving Regulation. We believe that an investigator should be tasked with reviewing this legislation together with relevant stakeholders, as proposed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in its report on the environmental objective of Storslagen mountain environment 2014. According to information from the Government Office, Ministry of the Environment and Energy, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has not as previously been announced been given such a task to review off-road driving legislation. We'd like to see that. Mr President, I would like to If strictly followed, the Species Protection Directive would mean that forestry would in practice be prohibited. It contains a ban on disturbing birds or damaging their breeding grounds, regardless of where they are. The implementation of the Directive in Swedish legislation mainly goes through the Species Protection Regulation much longer than the Directive requires, especially with regard to birds. The reporting has primarily been handled by Artdatabanken and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, without the necessary transparency from others who may have an interest in and know more about the nature conservation work carried out in the forest and its importance for endangered species and habitats. In view of these uncertainties in accounting and reporting, we do not consider it appropriate to use this data to evaluate either the environmental objective of living forests in general or whether or not certain habitats have favourable status. Sweden should instead set conservation targets based on its own definitions of different nature types and evaluate conservation work towards these goals. The existing definitions of the EU habitat should then be ignored. In April 2017, the Minister for the Environment announced that the Government will not carry out any review of the Species Protection Regulation, despite the fact that the current application of the Regulation clearly does not work satisfactorily, as demonstrated by the judgment of the Land and Environment Court of Appeal in the so-called Bomb Wall case. The fact that the application does not work has also been highlighted by the responsible authorities. The Directors-General of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency requested a review of the regulation in a joint letter last summer in order to make the exercise of public authority predictable, legally secure and effective. It is time for the government to actually rewrite the Species Protection Regulation. There are several reasons for this. The text of the Regulation does not specify that the prohibitions apply only where the favourable conservation status is affected. The favourable conservation status will only be considered during the exemption testing. Sweden's implementation of the Species Protection Regulation can therefore be questioned. It would also be highly desirable for the Regulation to clarify whether the assessment of the favourable conservation status should be carried out at local, regional or national level and how the landowner should be compensated if prevented from using land in progress. Mr President, I would like to An example from the newspaper Land Skogsbruk illustrates the current situation. A landowner in the village of Draven in Härjedalen was stopped by Skogsstyrelsen from felling 7.4 hectares of spruce forest; the area had been classified as a key biotope. A valuation showed that a quarter of a million dollars in compensation would be based on the state, but after a year's waiting without receiving the payment, the landowner chose to go to court to get his money. From Kammarkollegiet then suddenly came new news: The state said completely no to compensation. If it were to expire, it would be only $150 (U.S.) – a mere 5 percent of what the valuation said. Recently, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog expressed in an interpellation debate that if, in all cases where environmental legislation restricts some form of land use, it were to claim a right to compensation, it would mean a marked and revolutionary change in the land policy pursued in Sweden for a long time, regardless of governments. The question asked the Minister was whether it is stealing to take something without paying for it. The answer from the Minister for the Environment is still waiting. I would therefore like to remind Members of Parliament that, when the current forestry policy was examined and decided in 1990 – 1992, a voluntary agreement was made between the state and forestry that forest owners should refrain from forestry at a level equivalent to 1%, while taking so-called general consideration. The state would assume its responsibility for larger provisions. Ownership is one of the most important foundations of democratic society. Individual ownership constitutes and enables freedom and self-determination which are necessary in a democratic and free society. In addition, we are talking about very long-term investments, where, for example, forests have been planted for their children or grandchildren and then managed the land for decades and generations. These are investments that are therefore in danger of being lost. We now see that forestry policy is going in the wrong direction. The inventiveness of environmentalists and authorities leads to concepts such as key biotopes, rights of speech, value regions, green infrastructure and species protection regulation being used as a tool to achieve more or less relevant environmental objectives. We in the Swedish Democrats oppose this development and believe that forest owners should be kept harmless in cases where felling cannot happen. From the perspective of forest owners, this looks like a mere collectivisation of individual forest ownership and a subjugation of the right to use. According to Chapter 2 of the government form. Paragraph 15 shall require those who, by expropriation or any other such disposal, have to renounce their property to be fully compensated for the loss. Ownership rights with property protection are enshrined in the Swedish Constitution, the European Convention and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our laws serve both the letter and the spirit to protect the individual against abuse by the authorities. The Swedish Democrats believe that a well-functioning forestry policy is to take responsibility for Sweden's natural resources and economy. With a forestry policy that promotes forest use and respects ownership, forestry can create development and employment throughout Sweden.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-708	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating nature conservation, site protection and biodiversity. For the Green Party, it is about protecting all the plants and animals that currently exist in our nature and protecting valuable nature, while at the same time allowing nature to be accessible to all of us to stay in. It is also about working in many other ways towards the eradication of plants and animals. This is also something that a large majority of the Swedish people think is important. There is very strong support for the protection of nature. In a new survey by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, 80 percent of respondents fully agree that it is important to protect nature. And even more, 85 percent of us, want to stay in nature. But that nature is important to the Swedish people is poorly reflected in this debate and also in the motions submitted last autumn by representatives of the bourgeois parties, which we are now discussing. It is exercise that is very much about stopping protecting valuable nature, that more endangered animals should be shot and that the Swedish people's opportunities to stay in nature should be limited. Mr President, I would like to Today, the condition of many species is acute. We are in a mass extinction of species. It is the only mass extinction that has taken place during man's time on earth and that has been caused by us. Our population and, above all, our lifestyle are increasingly taking up space on earth and reducing the space of other species. Above all, unsustainable forest and agriculture, as well as overfishing, are acute threats, but we are also destroying the habitats of other species through pollution emissions and the spread of invasive species. Climate change is also a cause of the extinction of species. Now someone might think: What difference does it make if plant and animal species disappear? What is the problem that lichens and mosses in the woods, woodpeckers and lichens and bees and bumblebees disappear? Yes, the answer is – in addition to the ethical aspect, that other animals and plants also have the right to live on our earth – that we as humans depend on the functioning of ecosystems. They give us food, fresh water, air etc., and we don't really know what happens when a species disappears. Since the air debate is hot right now, I can draw the analogy with an airplane. It can go well in itself to remove a screw here, a nut there and another part there, but if you continue to remove different small parts without knowing what significance they have for the whole, it will sooner or later have very serious consequences. One such very serious consequence that we now see is the loss of insects in nature and in the agricultural landscape. Last autumn we were reached by an alarming report from Germany. There scientists have studied the presence of insects in some areas. They have concluded that the amount of insects has decreased by 80 percent in just under 30 years. It is frightening, because insects have an indispensable role in nature around us. For example, they do important work with pollination of many crops, which then become our food. The loss of biodiversity is one of the most serious and acute environmental threats. This is something that the Green Party takes very seriously. Mr President, I would like to Nature conservation and protection has a long history in our country. Sweden was the first country in Europe to set up national parks when, on 24 May 1909, the Parliament set aside land for nine parks. Today we have 29 national parks. The last one was inaugurated ten years ago, 2009, when Kosterhavet became Sweden's first marine national park. And soon, as has already been mentioned in this debate, we will decide on the 30th National Park, Åsnen, in the municipalities of Alvesta and Tingsryd, which will be inaugurated on 25 May. It is more nature that is protected now, with this government, than with the alliance government. At the turn of 2016 – 2017 there were a total of 4,213 state nature reserves in Sweden. 272 of them came into existence in 2016. That was almost twice as many as the year before. The government has significantly increased funding for protection of a valuable nature. This year's budget is 1.4 billion. This is an increase of 75 percent compared to 2014, when the alliance government ruled. The funding for biotopes and nature conservation agreements and other nature and cultural measures under the Swedish Forest Agency has also doubled during its term of office. As has been said here, many landowners have been waiting for years to receive compensation which is now being reimbursed for the protection of their land. Mr President, I would like to Since 80 per cent of the Swedish people think it is important to protect a valuable nature, not least forest protection, one might think that the government's efforts would be praised by the bourgeois opposition, but not, said Nicke. We have heard it in the debate so far. The bourgeois newspapers around the country today are filled with strange leaders and debate articles, all with the same absurd assertions: The Green Party governs forestry policy, threatens ownership and wants to confiscate forests without compensation to the forest owners. The articles are often written by representatives of bourgeois parties, often center parties. Some of the writers are taking part in today's debate. I have to say, however, that you seem to be suffering from bad memory, because you seem to have completely forgotten that it was under the alliance government, under the Center Party Environment Minister Lena Ek, that it was decided that 20 per cent of Sweden's nature should be protected. It was also the alliance government that presented to the Riksdag in 2014 the new interim objectives for forest protection, which means that the formal forest protection will increase by 150 000 hectares below the border of mountain forest by 2020. At that time, the target of increasing voluntary provisions by 200 000 hectares by 2020 was also adopted. 90 000 hectares of formal protection remain. There's only two years left. Our government has therefore, as I have just explained, significantly increased the appropriations to achieve the Parliament's objectives, which were decided under the alliance government. All alliance parties and SD strongly delete their shadow budgets from these appropriations. How do they intend to achieve the objectives? Perhaps by confiscating the forest without compensation? Mr President, I would like to Also important when it comes to promoting biodiversity is the protection of the beach. The beaches are the nursery of many species, as well as vital water holes for many animals. There are also a number of other reasons why the beaches should be protected – I have explained them on several occasions in this House before. Among other things, it is about equality, about everyone's right to stay on the beaches, and also about climate adaptation, not to build where there is a risk of flooding and race. Even our beach shelter has a long history. Since the Second World War, we have agreed that protected beaches are good for public health, outdoor life, equality and biodiversity. In any case, we agreed until the end of the last century, when party after party began to agree with the privatisation chorus in this area too. The Green Party puts biodiversity, everyone's people's right to stay in nature, outdoor life and climate adaptation first and foremost. We stand up for the beach shelter when other parties fail. Mr President, I would like to I see that I have gone over time, but I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the wolf. In his motion in this report, my party colleague Jan Lindholm raises an important issue: poaching wolves. If we are to have a healthy wolf tribe, it is important that the wolves who come to our country are allowed to live and reproduce. Too many wolves with fresh blood have fallen victim to the poachers' bullets. As many as every other wolf who dies, dies of illegal hunting, says wolf expert Håkan Sand, who works as a project leader in the wolf research project Skandulv. He believes that there are probably more wolves being shot now than it was in the early 2000s. I see this as a major failure for predatory policy and the introduction of a wolf licence hunt. An important purpose of this was that we in the hunting corps should have increased acceptance of the wolf. Here both politics and hunting associations have a lesson to do. It is also important that the regional wildlife management delegations are democratically composed. I won't talk about it much. I thought Monica Haider made a good point in her speech. Before the government changed its composition, 61% of delegations identified themselves as hunters. This compares with the fact that the same group of the population in general represents 3%. I think it is a good thing that we have two more representatives in the delegations, one for environmental and nature conservation organisations and one for local nature and eco-tourist companies. After all, it is important that we have balanced and democratic representation in the delegations. I would therefore like to support our reservation on the evaluation of wildlife conservation administrations, reservation 4. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-729	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for a funny and interesting speech! Yes, 80 per cent want more nature conservation, but with statistics you can say a little anything, for example that it is 4 per cent of the Swedish people who want the Environmental Party in parliament. The Center Party writes articles about property rights, and Stina Bergström thinks that's strange. I find it strange that Stina Bergström points out Jan Lindholm as a person who is exercising on clever subjects. He is a member of the Environmental Party who has given investigation assignments to RUT on chemtrails, and he is a writer on alternative sites where one claims a little everything possible, including that one can cure homosexuality with good hygiene. There's a lot of weird stuff behind the scenes. But my question is about Baltic cod, because we are talking about biodiversity. Baltic cod behaves in many ways as a species of its own, as it has adapted to the salinity and temperature of the eastern administrative area. Right now we are entering a period when cod is playing and therefore there should be a stop to cod fishing, which everyone should respect. Unfortunately, not everyone does. Denmark, for example, fishes a huge quota of plaice and therefore gets a lot of cod. When you ask the government if it is not time to pick up the phone and talk to Denmark about respecting the cod fishing ban, they say: No, it will be so hard, and it will be so difficult. That is why my question is: when will the government start to do something about the disastrous situation of the Baltic cod? It is a fish that is important for biodiversity, because it is a large predatory fish. But it is also a worrying situation because it is an indicator of how the Baltic Sea is actually doing.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-735	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jesper Skalberg, for a very important question! The Green Party has been deeply involved in fisheries policy. We have also had changes at European level, which is important. We fish together in these waters. It is therefore important that we have a regulatory framework that is not only rigorous but also respected. Just as Jesper Skalberg says, it is not followed by everyone. What the government says when you pick up the phone and call them, I don't know. This will stand for Jesper Skalberg. I know that we have tried to talk to Denmark about these issues and that we do not have the same view of how this regulatory framework is being complied with. I see that it is a problem and is just as worried as Jesper Skalberg. I also see that it is a problem that the rules on the landing obligation are not being complied with either.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-737	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but the situation is in many ways alarming, perhaps not just because there would be few fish, which are often the problem in other stocks. But here the problem is really that the fish are not well. We can see that not least because they are not growing. Big cod, old cod, we can't even get up when we test fish. The middle-aged look like young cod, and the young cod look like herring. It is clear that there is a major imbalance in this stock. The only thing that has really happened about this in recent years is that we have regulated German recreational fishing, which is a reasonable line. It also supported the Moderates in the Environment and Agriculture Committee and the EU Board. But it did not come about on a Swedish initiative either; it came from other EU countries. So the question is, does the government not want to do at least something? It is clear that we can sit and try to get other Member States to follow Ice's advice – we will continue to do so. But are there no other collaborations that can be initiated, developed or deepened? The thing is that we do not fish a lot of cod in the eastern management area. It is Poland that stands for the lion's share. It would be interesting to hear whether the Green Party has any ideas on how we can save this species. If all fish are the same size, they also have the same diet, which means that there are enormous repercussions throughout the food web. This, in turn, leads to other problems. Cod problems are therefore a major part of the Baltic Sea's problems.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-740	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree that this is a problem. It is about the survival of cod and what to do about it. As far as fisheries policy is concerned and in terms of preventing overfishing of endangered species, I think that the government has tried to do a lot. This applies not least to eel, which is another endangered species. The government tried to get much more stringent legislation on this at EU level. It is we in Sweden that fish a lot of eel in southern Sweden. There we had no support from the Moderates. Among other things, it was about working with a stop during at least a few years to make that species feel better. But let us try to continue to help each other on fisheries issues. We have had a good consensus, I think, in the political parties in Parliament. Regardless of which government has sat, we have been able to move forward in this regard. Not least, we have had MEPs who have been working on the issues and who have managed to take one step at a time. Of course, much more needs to be done.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-742	Mr President, I would like to Protecting valuable nature and protecting and developing biodiversity is a key task of environmental policy. The combination of different forms of life and their interaction gives rise to services that are essential for the functioning of our society, our economy and our everyday lives. Both people and businesses are directly and indirectly dependent on ecosystem services. These include, for example, access to wood, pollination of crops and the ability of the seas to produce fish. In this way, ecosystem services are also necessary to secure long-term jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country. That is why these two reports on nature conservation and biodiversity are so important. In order for nature conservation to be sustainable in the long term, it needs to be based on the legitimacy and participation of those concerned. With ownership and the right to use will be a responsibility but also an interest in long-term management of the resource that it owns. The Center Party strongly believes that committed landowners and dedicated users are the most sustainable in the long term when it comes to caring for our nature. It is often in the grazed pasture, in the forest maintained by generations and in the meadow where the grass is grazed that the greatest natural values and biodiversity are found. Valuable nature may need more protection, but at the same time it often means that ownership and use are restricted. It must be self-evident that owners or users should also be compensated for the restrictions imposed. The cost of the measures must also be proportionate to the environmental benefits of conservation measures, and it is important that landowners and users are involved in the process. These must be fundamental principles when we discuss nature conservation. Mr President, I would like to A very concrete and successful example of when nature conservation is based on the legitimacy and participation of those affected is Kosterhavet National Park. The National Park, which the committee will visit in the spring, has been created through local initiatives. And the design and regulations of the national park have been developed with all the different actors involved in the national park and in different ways active in the area. On the part of the Center Party, we see that it is a model that deserves to be highlighted as a good example. It is a way of working that the Center Party wants to see more examples of when working on the creation of more protected areas. It is an example where different interests can be reconciled and where farming and nature conservation can interact. Another issue related to nature protection linked to our water is the protection of the beach. There are over 400 000 kilometres of beach in Sweden – that is more than ten laps around the world. These beaches are a fantastic resource and an environment to both protect and develop. Here too we see a strong need for greater focus on legitimacy and participation. The Center Party wants to see decentralised and locally grown beach protection, where the municipality is given more power to decide which beach areas are to be protected and preserved and which can be built. The regulatory burden needs to be reduced. The really important areas need to be protected. The Swedish Parliament has previously issued an announcement to the government about a change in beach protection. Unfortunately, we can see that the government is not delivering in this area either. Mr President, I would like to Wild is also an important part of biodiversity. There is more and more wild in Sweden today. It creates both opportunities and challenges. It provides opportunities for more hunting and nature experiences. It also provides the opportunity to sell more climate-smart game meat to consumers, both to individuals and to the public. However, this also places demands on game management. The fact that we have strong strains of game in Sweden is, of course, fundamentally good, but too large strains also create problems, both for people and for the ecosystem. The existence of broad trust in hunting and game conservation is an important prerequisite for policy to have an effect in practice, and this presupposes that those who live and work in areas with a lot of wild game and large predators have an influence on management. The fact that politics takes account of the environment, nature and human beings is the key to our success in sustainable management. In this context, the game management delegations are a key element. The game management delegations decentralise the decision-making power so that it is closer to those concerned. The participation of local representatives in the process also increases transparency. The way in which wildlife management missions operate is different in the country. But it is important to ensure that the regional influence of those concerned really does come true. This is clear not least since the government changed the balance in delegations by adding more members from nature conservation and nature tourism. Reviewing the work and composition of wildlife management delegations is important for the long-term functioning of regional management throughout the country. We are therefore pleased that the committee is now calling on the government to do just that. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with the area which currently occupies a large part of the conservation debate: the forest. Forest owners should be able to take pride in the fact that the forest that they have managed for generations has received values in the form of lichens or bomb wall claws. It is a sign that they have done something right in their conservation. But instead, many forest owners today have a feeling of unease – what if they have created something valuable on their land and suddenly lose power over their forest! When users and landowners are afraid of creating biodiversity, we are very wrong out there. The Center Party believes that forestry legislation in the future should be based on equal objectives of farming and conservation. This principle has been successful both in developing the industry and in improving environmental protection. Forests and forest raw materials are crucial for the green transition. We therefore need to develop and design the regulatory framework in order to enable continued increased and sustainable yield of forest raw materials, for increased climate benefits and reduced dependence on fossil resources. For example, the Center Party wants to review the Species Protection Regulation to ensure that it is applicable, effective and legally secure. It is also important that nature conservation is dynamic and not static. Nature, as well as threats and therefore protection needs, is evolving and changing. Nature protection must be increased for such changes. Today, a very large part of nature conservation is based on voluntary measures and provisions. The initiatives of landowners for the protection of land supported, for example, under the Comet programme have been somewhat positive. We should take advantage of these experiences and develop them. A cost-effective way to protect soil is to use state productive forest land, for example from Sveaskog, as replacement land when creating nature conservation areas. Another way to increase forest biodiversity is to use more ecological compensation and schemes to sell, for example, credits linked to measures that reduce negative impacts on the ecosystem or biodiversity. There is much to do when it comes to developing how we can protect our forest. Forest protection is, however, an issue which today is surrounded by great concern from forest owners. We also see increasing polarisation in the forest debate. Regrettably, the government's focus on forestry is fuelling this concern and polarisation. While the Social Democratic Minister for Rural Development promises gold and green forests, the Minister for the Environment is questioning whether forest owners should even be entitled to compensation for lost land. The Minister for Rural Development promises a review of species protection, while the Minister for the Environment believes that that door is closed. For several years, various actors involved in forestry issues have been involved in the development of a national forest programme, which, when the Center Party launched this work in the Alliance Government, aimed at solving the links that exist in forestry issues, including conservation and biodiversity. But after the bill has been postponed from spring 2017 to autumn 2017 and then until spring 2018, it is now uncertain whether there will be any proposal at all. It's nothing but a sub-grade. Sweden must have a nature conservation that encourages people to care for and manage and helps and encourages them to preserve valuable nature and to create new biodiversity. But unfortunately we have another piece to walk there. Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 2 in the MJU9 report.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-766	Mr President, I would like to This is not a budget debate, but I nevertheless brought with me the budget report from last autumn where we discussed our various appropriations. For protection of a valuable nature, the government is allocating 1.4 billion this year. The Center Party wants to cut off half of this appropriation – 740 million. As I said in my speech, in 2014, the Parliament decided, based on the work that had been done in the Environmental Objectives Committee, on a milestone for forest protection by 2020. Another 150 000 hectares would be protected. To achieve this objective, there are now some 90 000 hectares left. I am therefore a little curious about how the Center Party intends to achieve this goal, which the party itself has supported.
i-HY2gBKHzvK3vNjBxmZ3SEa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for the question! I think it is a pity that we are constantly getting caught up in the idea that protecting forests and working with biodiversity in the forest is equal to spending money on a budget. As I tried to highlight in my speech, I believe that there are great opportunities to develop how we protect the forest. Everything does not have to mean that we should set aside forests forever in one and the same area. Monica Haider asked earlier what flexible and dynamic forest protection means. For me and the Center Party, for example, this means that in one forest area there may be a value during a certain period of the forest's lifetime but that it may then be more relevant to move the protection elsewhere, where the forest has a value during another time. This means that you can see that the values that we want to preserve in Sweden are protected, but they do not have to be in the exact same place all the time. During the time of the alliance government, the Center Party launched a replacement land project covering 100,000 hectares. Among other things, this has been highlighted by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency as a much more effective way of protecting forests than when you go in and buy or financially replace land. It is more effective, and for forest owners it is also more positive to be able to continue to own and manage the forest and to be active in forestry. This is something we also see that we could work on in the future. I think it's a shame if you get stuck in numbers and money. I believe that there is a great deal more to be done to develop forest protection if we can have a constructive debate on nature conservation in the future.
i-5ovTBuyEyCNVJLPW1TjQ7N	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answer, Kristina Yngwe! It goes without saying that there are many ways to protect nature. In addition to the formal – i.e. legal – protection, there is voluntary protection, which is very important. A target was also set for 2014: voluntary protection will increase by 200 000 hectares by 2020. Unfortunately, the Forest Board says that this goal will not be achieved, but we still see that certification – FSC and PEFC – has meant a lot to protect more and to get more voluntary provision. It is also part of the policy that emerged in the 1990s, with freedom under responsibility, handshake and so on. Today 63% of the productive forest is certified. This means, among other things, that forest owners undertake to protect at least 5 per cent of the forest. They also undertake not to harvest key biotopes. It is very important that forest owners know what key biotopes they have. Since the 1990s we have had an agreement that the big companies themselves will check where they have their key biotopes, while the private forest owners will get help with that. This said about the importance of having a nationwide key biotop inventory. Compensation land is great, but also it will not be free, although I also think it is an effective form for the state to legally protect forests. I would like to return to the question. We have a target of protecting another 90 000 hectares by 2020. The center cuts half the grant for compensation for forest owners. How is this to be done?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-777	Mr President, I would like to You are so very firm in that it should be in a certain form – in legal form. What is not in legal form is voluntary provision, and then it does not really count in the same way. I can feel that it is a great pity that we are getting caught up in this discussion. We have to look at what we want to do. We want to increase biodiversity in the country. I assume that the Green Party thinks it is important to make the transition that we should make by moving to a fossil-free Sweden. Forests are an incredibly important part of this, and we must be able to increase the yield in the forest in order to achieve this change. However, we must also be able to balance it with sustainable protection and the sustainable management of forests. There's a lot to develop, but I don't think everything has to be done through formal protection where the state goes in and takes land. This will also be needed, but then we must have a discussion at national level about what we want to care for the long term, what values we should have and where they should be. I would have liked the national forestry programme to have been able to come to an end, because there have been discussions about how we want the forest to look long-term and how we solve the knots that exist in forest protection and forest work. Unfortunately, I can only say that it has not come to the end. But that means there's more for us in the alliance government to take hold of after the election.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-781	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Kristina, for a good speech. After the last line shift, I was a little confused about what you said, Kristina, that you think it's better with replacement chips and that you shouldn't pay. In the article in the newspaper, however, the requirement was to be paid for the disposal of land. I am therefore a little confused about what the Center Party really wants, but it was also some other center party that signed the article. That is not why I asked for a reply, but it was for this, among other things, with the wildlife management delegations, that you think is changing the balance. I wonder if you from the Alliance or you in the Center Party, Kristina Yngwe, have any indication that there have been problems since we changed the composition of the game management delegations. I can only refer to my own, and there we have not seen any such change since we had two new Members. We Social Democrats, too, use the land of exchange when it is necessary. There's nothing unique to you. The Alliance set a target of 150 000 hectares to be set aside but 200 000 hectares to be voluntary. So we have two objectives to relate to. Here you are and basically just talking about the voluntary provisions, not the others. We will have to pay for land, and I think that goes without saying. If someone is going to set aside land and someone else is going to take care of it for the user, it's clear that the government is going to pay for it. I think that goes without saying.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-786	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for many questions at once, Monica Haider! It's great that we have a lot to discuss here. I will start with your first question about the fact that I am talking about the exchange of forests while there are center parties who have written that we have to pay compensation. What you probably refer to is what has arisen with the mountain forest. Kammarkollegiet has said that there should be no compensation. We raised the compensation to 1.25 times the value. In the past they have received compensation, but now they no longer receive it. I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats, who have at least been in favour of the forest and have stood on the side of the forest in the past, do not say so much on this issue. What we have said, and as I also said in my speech, is that there must be a principled line on the part of the state, that if you go in and take land, it must be replaced. That is the basic problem in this matter. Of course, we are not against replacing forest owners with money. That's what we say you have to do. But when the government moves as hard as it is now, we in the Center Party say that it may not be this way we should go. In previous speeches, there has also been talk of the financial issues and where this money is actually taken. They are taken from taxpayers and entrepreneurs. We are in no way against compensation, but we need to complement the protection of forest owners.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-791	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answers. What I am thinking about, Kristina Yngwe, is how you intend to meet the goals that the Alliance Government decided on in terms of the disposal of forests both voluntarily and not voluntarily. As far as compensation or non-reimbursement is concerned, there is a legal process in progress on some of these issues. It's not finished yet, so it's hard to say where this ends up. I know what I think. I think that if you take land from a forest owner, you should pay for it, and I think the other Social Democrats are responsible for that. We are in favour of the forest. We think we can use the forest for quite a few things, so of course we have to care for the forest. But we must also look after biodiversity. I therefore come back to the question of dynamic nature conservation. You said you could protect one area for a certain time, maybe ten years, and then protect another. But if we are now to replace forest owners for this, does that mean having the forest for ten years and then trading the forest for another forest for the next ten years? I don't really understand this dynamic nature protection thing. I understand that there can be different values in the forest at different times in the process. But I don't understand how it's gonna work if we're gonna pay the forest owners and redeem their forest because they're decomposing the forest.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-798	Mr President, I would like to You don't have to take possession of all the land forever. Today, conservation agreements exist to some extent. But I think there is much more to be developed in the nature conservation agreement. For a certain period of time you get a lease because this protection or these values exist. If I am to compare with agriculture, there will be compensation for various measures that increase biodiversity in combination with production. We do not see that possibility in the forest today. When it comes to key biotopes, there may be huge opportunities to use horses to harvest forests in a gentle way so that the values that are there do not disappear. What I mean by flexible and dynamic protection is that we must see that nature is changing, and then we cannot come up with a static protection of values in certain areas forever. For some forest land it will have to be so, but I think there is a completely different way of thinking when it comes to other forest land and other values. I would really like us to be able to lift this up in the political debate instead of burying ourselves in percentages, hectares and how much money one and the other spends. I don't think Swedish nature conservation and Swedish forest will win in the long run.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-801	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns the two reports on nature conservation and protection of areas and biodiversity. As far as biodiversity is concerned, I sometimes get the questions: Why is diversity so important? Why is it important to have many different species? Is it not enough to have the same kind of tree in the forest, that there are green lawns and fields with only one or a few crops? No, that's not enough. The fewer species there are, the more fragile our ecological system becomes. Let me take a few examples. If a forest is attacked by a malicious insect, only a few of the trees are likely affected if the variation in the forest is large, but the risk is obvious that the spruce forest will be completely knocked out if the spruce bark drill gets loose on a plantation with a monoculture. Which forest does best in an extreme weather, like a storm? Is it a plantation with the same kind of tree in straight rows or forests with a great variety of plants? The plantations stand here flat when the trees fall like pickpins if the accident is there – something we saw at the storm Gudrun 2005. Without insects pollinating, i.e. enabling plants to reproduce, a large part of what we take for granted today would not be: the flowers, the fruit, the berries, the grain and so on. On and around an oak can as many as a thousand different species live. It could be lichens, fungi, insects and so on. And the oak and other trees are crucial to facilitate the ground's water absorption when it rains, to lower the temperature and give shade in our cities and not least to bind carbon dioxide and also to create better local air. In other words, biodiversity is crucial for our lives and for our welfare. Just as Stina Bergström of the Green Party argued earlier, no one would enter an aircraft if every tenth component of the engine had been removed. But that is exactly what we are doing with our ecosystems today. Of the more than 60 000 species present in Sweden, approximately 2 000 are threatened, according to Artdatabanken's latest review. Despite public targets for increasing biodiversity, living forests and rich plant and animal life, the situation has not improved over time. Although species naturally change, the impoverishment of humans today is untenable. Let me reconnect with Stina Bergström from the Green Party. I agree that the research report that came from Germany last year was quite frightening. Researchers have studied insects in some sixty nature reserves in Germany over the past 25 years. Their conclusion is that 75 percent of the insects had disappeared during this time. One of the researchers described it as an ecological world disaster and felt that development could be just as bad in other parts of the world. The World Wildlife Fund's Living Planet Index points in the same direction and shows that the proportion of vertebrates has fallen by 60 percent since 1970. Species living in fresh water have decreased even more, by just over 80 percent. This sometimes calls scientists the sixth mass extinction of species. In the past, there have been more natural causes that have wiped out animals and plants, such as meteorites that knocked out dinosaurs, but today it is man who bears full responsibility for the extinction of species. The situation is acute, to say the least, and we humans also bear full responsibility for doing something about it. When I hear the Minister for Rural Development, Social Democrats Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, and bourgeois representatives pay tribute to Swedish forestry, which is largely based on creating plantations of living forests, I am deeply concerned. I am also deeply concerned by those representatives who think that we can spread more chemical pesticides in our fields. I am also deeply concerned by the fact that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want to significantly reduce the funding for biodiversity in the state budget. Mr President, I would like to This is not taking responsibility for the diversity of our nature. On the contrary, it is to dilute the current impoverishment. Mr President, I would like to It is difficult not to be fascinated by how everything is connected in nature, how the connection is not stronger than the chain's weakest link. Let us take spring flowers as an example. They make themselves most attractive for the bee and the bumblebee to visit them and ensure reproduction through pollination. The Rosen petals are colorful and inviting, and the flower smells irresistible to the polliners. It is a signal that there is a reward for the bee or bumblebee, and the pollinator also receives it in the form of sweet nectar and pollen. Without insects pollinating, we would get much less or nothing from what we take for granted today: pears, apples, strawberries, rapeseed and not least the great splendor of flowers every spring and summer. Biodiversity may be a question of flowers and bees, but it is ultimately about the basis of our existence on this planet. That is why it is so important to take political responsibility to stop the mass extinction of species and increase the diversity of our nature. That is exactly what we in the Left Party want to do. We'll put a living planet with biodiversity first. Development and short-term profits will have to stand back. Without biodiversity, no life. Mr President, I would like to The proposals for what I have mentioned in my speech are contained in the Left Party's motion on Biological Diversity, which is dealt with in these two reports. I call for the Left Party's reservation, No 4, contained in the MJU9 report, to be approved and to increase the protection of marine areas to at least 20%.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-820	Mr President, I would like to It has been said very wisely so far today. I hope I have something to add. I call for the approval of Amendment No 3 to the MJU9 report. It is about the protection of marine areas, with a focus on how it should be done. Of course, I support all the reservations with which the Liberals are included and also the other relevant parts of the two reports. The fact that we are discussing the two issues of nature conservation and site protection and biodiversity at the same time is not surprising. They're all in each other, so it feels natural. Last week we discussed water management, and this is also the case. When I hear the debate and think about it, I realise that even in the forthcoming debates when we are discussing forests, agriculture and fisheries, biodiversity will be the focus. This is what it revolves around, and it is the strength of nature. As has been mentioned earlier, biodiversity has a great intrinsic value. It is difficult to put your finger on what it is worth in crowns and coins, so it is important to have it with you that it has its own value. Biodiversity also has a tangible value for us to use the so-called ecosystem services, and human survival here on earth is based on their functioning. There are many obvious examples here: fishing, agriculture and forestry. Other, a bit more peripheral, is ecotourism and hunting. Here, in principle, everything is based on the fact that we have a functioning biodiversity. The climate issue is discussed most of the time. There is also a clear link here to having a well-maintained diversity. The robustness of nature is a prerequisite for it to adapt to the inevitable climate changes ahead. Even if we try to prevent them, we already see that there are those who are inevitable. Mr President, I would like to When we discuss the conservation and protection of biodiversity, much is about long-term sustainability and sustainable management. We must have a balance between conservation and use. We easily end up in the conservation union, and there conservation and use are pitted against each other. However, we must see that conservation and use can go hand in hand and are not in opposition. For example, earlier in the debate it has been mentioned that agriculture and grazing animals are required for an open landscape, and in the case of forests we are talking about production targets and environmental objectives as equivalent – and so on. This dimension is important to have with you. Mr President, I would like to We are talking about valuable nature, and the Liberals think that nature reserves and national parks are a good tool in this regard. It is satisfying that we now get our thirtieth national park through Åsnen National Park. It follows the twenty-ninth, Kosterhavet National Park, and I had to say so, too. I'm moving on to protection processes. Together with the Center Party, we have raised a motion on marine protection. But it is very universal how the process should be done, and some basic working methods are a prerequisite for achieving a good result. If we are talking specifically about marine protection, which is raised in the reservation, we can see that there are many different interests in our maritime areas, such as shipping, fishing, tourism, energy production, marine and aquaculture and other things. These must be weighed against each other. In such a process, one must always have a dialogue so that the people affected by this are included in one's daily lives. When protecting things through national parks and nature reserves, one must never forget that it affects individuals who have ownership and use of the nature around them. As I mentioned earlier in this House, I was involved in the process of developing the Kosterhavet Marine National Park. If there had not been a dialogue where it was seen that there were many win-win concepts, this national park would probably not have existed today. It's a basic way of working. That is exactly what we are raising in the reservation. As far as the important work of the Art Data Bank is concerned, the Liberals fully support it and believe that it is extremely important that it should be allowed to continue. With regard to the protection of a valuable nature, the exact amount of money to be spent has been discussed. We can discuss this in many contexts, but it is absolutely incontrovertible that it is an issue that the Liberals prioritise in their budget, along with climate investments and investments in the seas and waters. That is what I want to say. Mr President, I would like to The MJU10 Biodiversity report contains a proposal for an announcement on the evaluation of the work of the Wildlife Management Delegation. This is supported by the Liberals, but the issue has been explained and supported and wet here in the past. I will not say much more about it, but I can say that it is a question of all the interests involved being heard. This applies to both individuals and interest groups. This reinforces the legitimacy of the entire regulatory framework in order to ensure the proper functioning of predator management. Mr President, I would like to One of the Liberals' concerns is the protection of the beach, which is also addressed in the report, not least the link to the establishment of so-called LIS areas, that is, rural development in coastal locations. I would like to point out once again that the Liberals believe that the general beach protection of 100 metres has benefited Sweden. It can also be justified with 300 meters in many places, but then it should be well justified. This is really what the discussion is about. When we talk about beach protection, it is about both accessibility and conservation of biodiversity, which must not be jeopardised. Here, too, it is not black or white, and we want to be clear that there is really no fundamental contradiction. There may be flexibility in the system if the basic aim of biodiversity and accessibility is not jeopardised. The process that ended with us reforming beach protection in 2009 was intended to do just that, but we must acknowledge that it has not worked properly. There is therefore pressure for us to change this so that the purpose decided by Parliament can be fulfilled, including the development of rural areas. There is an announcement, and preparation is ongoing within the government, but it feels like it has gone down. I do not know how much the will to land on this issue is, but I suspect that there are slightly different interests. I would urge the government to really work on this issue and to take it with it that this is not black or white. You can actually have a flexible beach protection that is strong, preserves biodiversity and guarantees accessibility to our beaches. What I am now saying on behalf of the Liberals is not about weakening the protection of the beach, but basically about making it more effective.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-839	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Lars Tysklind's commitment, not least to marine issues. Lars Tysklind referred to the reservation that the Liberals and the Center Party have regarding the protection of marine areas. There are two thoughts. Having looked at the Liberals' budgetary options, I can see that the Liberals, like all bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, are proposing substantial cuts in the whole area of biodiversity, including those relating to the protection of marine areas. I would therefore like to ask Lars Tysklind: will there be more or less protection of marine areas with the major reductions that you propose? My second question, which I think is at least as important, is: how should marine protection be designed? This was Lars Tysklind inside. He talked a lot about the need to weigh different interests against each other. However, it should be remembered that in most marine reserves that we have in Sweden, large-scale bottom trawl fishing is allowed. Bottom trawling is the most interventional form of fishing law in terms of its impact on biodiversity. Large trawls sweep along the bottom and break and take up everything in their path. I would like to ask: do the Liberals believe that it is reasonable for large-scale bottom trawling in marine reserves to be carried out? What kind of reservations are we talking about?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-843	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll have to pick up the questions, even if I don't know if I can do it in two minutes. With regard to the first question, which has become very popular to discuss – cutting things down – I can only note that the Liberals' draft budget makes sense in our starting from our previous proposal. If we do that, we will increase our budget allocation for this area by 26%. We have three clear priorities. It is sea and water, which receives 1.6 billion, and it is the protection of valuable forests, which receive $1 billion. The Liberals describe what Kristina Yngwe had in her reasoning, namely that one must be able to find other ways where one achieves goals by finding other systems. As long as we get caught up in the fact that it is only because we are going to increase the state budget, we will never achieve our goals of reasonable costs. The left side makes it very easy for itself because it is just raising taxes and so you can crank in the same way as you have done before. Liberals charge 26 billion less in taxes on labour and entrepreneurship, although we charge 5 billion more in environmental taxes than the government. The fact that we are not willing to levy more taxes on work and entrepreneurship is based on the fact that we want a society that can continue to support a government budget in the long term. That's where we split up. I think we can never really agree on this issue, Jens Holm, but we have to say that we have some different ideological approaches to this. Mr President, I would like to I'll say a few sentences about fishing in protected areas. First of all, I find it remarkable to talk about large-scale fishing at all. The large-scale fishing that Jens Holm describes does not exist in Sweden. But I will move on on this issue.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-848	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who has raised a motion for a state budget knows that it relates to the government's budget bill. As Lars Tysklind now tries to portray the Liberals' actions as bets, it becomes, frankly, a bit of false news. Anyone who puts the Government's and Left Party's proposals next to the Liberals sees that in the Liberals' proposals there are severe cuts in the whole area of biodiversity, including the area of marine protection. Please explain how the Liberals think bottom trawling is good in marine areas, Lars Tysklind. You are welcome to tell us if you feel that bottom trawling leads to increased protection in these areas. That is the whole point of a marine reserve, namely the protection of this area. We in the Left Party do not think so. If it is to be a marine reserve, it shall be a protection against large-scale fishing, in particular bottom trawling.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-852	Madam President, I would like The main problem for the Left Party and the Green Party is that they only end up in the conservation bowl. They cannot see that there must be a balance between conservation and use. Jens Holm describes large-scale bottom trawling. It is clear that large-scale bottom trawling that takes no account is harmful and can be devastating. But that's not exactly how it works. The Environment and Agriculture Committee will visit Kosterhavet National Park in May. Then perhaps we will have to discuss this issue. It is not the case that fishing is completely free with large-scale trawls that plan the bottoms of Kosterhavet National Park. In Kosterfjorden it has been trawled for over 100 years. Yet, without regulations, there has been a great deal of preservation. During the process, fishing has been very involved in really highlighting the areas that are valuable and where trawls are no longer used, but where it is a highly regulated trawl fishery. To then describe this as Jens Holm does gives a completely incorrect picture of the situation. This is very much linked to the reservation we are talking about. It is not so much about protecting marine areas, it is about the process. We must always have with us that there are people who live and have a daily life here. These people must also be involved in the process. We cannot lay a dead hand on rural life, you can say, but we must be able to regulate it. As I said: A llt is not black or white, but it is possible to have a good balance between preservation and use if you just want and awaken that thought.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-857	Madam President, I would like Today's two reports, Biodiversity and Nature Conservation and Area Protection, are about the whole of Sweden to live. The first chairman of the Christian Democrats, Birger Ekstedt, once said in the 1960s: It is in the municipalities that we build the country. It is true that it is in the municipalities that we are building the country. But this presupposes that the state creates the conditions for us to build the country out in all 290 municipalities in Sweden. Sweden has over 500,000 kilometers [500,000 km] of water, and about one third of its surface is within 100 meters [100 m] of such a stream. Added to this are the sea and coastal beaches. Does anyone think it is reasonable that settlements should be prohibited in all these areas? No, I don't think anyone thinks so. It is mainly in the big cities that extensive lake-based buildings can be a problem, while in the countryside there is plenty of room for new construction next to many lakes and streams. The share of land built up along beaches is 60 – 70 per cent in the Stockholm area, while the share in small municipalities is a few per cent. So there are very large differences in the country. Building and developing properties that are not close to other buildings should be considered rural development. Therefore, it should be allowed to build lakeside one- or two-housing houses in low-exploited areas. We believe that Christian Democrats do. In fact, it is obvious that the need for beach protection differs between the royal capital and, for example, Laxå Municipality, which is located in my home county, Örebro County. Laxå is one of the municipalities that has the most lakeside per inhabitant of all Sweden's inland municipalities and is also one of Sweden's poorest municipalities. It is not acceptable for this municipality to be prevented in its efforts to use its most important resource, perhaps, to create better conditions for its inhabitants and to get more people to move to the municipality. The former alliance government changed the beach protection rules on a couple of occasions in order to facilitate coastal rural development, particularly in areas with low exploitation pressures. Unfortunately, however, these legislative changes have not had an impact throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Following an announcement by the Riksdag, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given a government task just a year ago to review the LIS rules – rural development in coastal locations – with the aim of proposing constitutional changes and possibly other measures to promote rural development in areas with good access to beaches without compromising the values that beach protection aims to protect in the long term. The proposals for constitutional changes submitted by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are certainly a step in the right direction, but that is not enough. The declared assignment, as well as the announcement in its entirety, is still under preparation in the Government Office. We are still waiting for delivery from the government regarding the review of these beach protection rules. The Christian Democrats' Committee motion calls for greater flexibility in the LIS framework. We want one- and two-housing buildings to be constructed in LIS areas, even without proximity to existing buildings, and that this should be considered rural development. This would, for example, help to improve the basis for small rural traders, so that they can remain and be important service facilities for rural residents. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the report on Biodiversity. On a number of occasions, the Riksdag has announced to the Government that the Government should pursue the intentions behind the predatory policy decided by the Riksdag. We Christian Democrats believe it is important that we have viable tribes of our native Swedish megafauna. This, of course, includes the large predators. At the same time, it is important that wild animals can coexist with man and with man's various activities. We also need an administrative hunt that can take the form of licence hunting. The Christian Democrats believe that we in Sweden should have a targeted selective hunt for wolf. Predatory policy is complicated by the fact that the European Commission sometimes interferes in an unfortunate way on the basis of the Species and Habitats Directive. One weakness of this directive is that it is not updated on the basis of the evolution of the conservation status of different species over time. The Species and Habitats Directive therefore needs to be amended, so that the classification of endangered animals and plants can be better determined in Sweden. In the Christian Democrats' motion on biodiversity, we point out that unanimity in the EU Council of Ministers is required to change which species of animals and plants are strictly protected under the Species and Habitats Directive. We Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should work to make reclassification easier as populations grow or shrink. We believe that we in Sweden should decide more about hunting and game conservation ourselves. At present, Brussels has too much power over how to pursue the hunt. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but in order to gain time in this House, I choose to endorse only reservation 3 of the report on Biological Diversity and reservation 6 of the report on Nature Care and Protection of Areas.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-876	Madam President, I would like Beach protection in Sweden has a long tradition; it dates back to the 1950s. The idea when the beach shelter was set up probably had more to do with social reasons. There was a big problem with rich people privatising beaches and access to lakeside areas. It was stated that everyone in this country should have access to the beaches, and I think that is a very good principle. To this we can add the conservation argument, that is, the beaches are often nursery rooms for many species. These are very fragile areas that need protection. It is therefore a good principle to protect beach protection, which is an important piece of legislation. From the bourgeois side, you do the most you can to shoot up the beach shelter and perforate it as much as possible. It has been quite successful and has changed the protection of the beach, but the Christian Democrats obviously do not think it has become sufficiently liberal – although there are generous appeals and exemptions, for example, and despite the fact that the reform has been introduced with so-called LIS areas, which should be able to develop and exploit more in beachfront locations. I would like to ask a more fundamental question. Today, it is 100 metres that apply to beach protection, and it can be extended to 300 metres. What do the Christian Democrats think? Do the Christian Democrats think that 100 and sometimes 300 meters of protection is good, or do they want to change that regulation too?
i-5uJpazwrRRLgP4FJoRGjGC	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! We agree that it is important that the beach shelter is in place. As I pointed out in my speech, the situation in the country is very different. There are areas that are very exploited, and there is of course a problem with construction near the beaches. Then there are areas – such as Laxå, which I mentioned – where there is plenty of space to build near the beaches. When the alliance government changed the rules, it would be possible to extend to 300 metres if there are special reasons, but 100 metres would apply. We came to the conclusion that we wanted it so, we made proposals on it and it went through in the Riksdag. But then it turned out that the county boards in the country interpreted this as 300 metres if there are no special reasons. So you turned it around, and it was all wrong. I myself participated in a local radio debate where the then county council was also present, and in the middle of the debate he said he agreed with this. He said: Yes, it has become so, and it is not right. We have to change that. I think it was very good that he said it. I don't know what it looks like in the rest of the country if you've turned this around to say it's 300 meters if there's no particular reason. If so, it is wrong. We have said that it should be 100 meters unless there are special reasons.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-883	Madam President, I would like I find it a little interesting that the bourgeois parties, and perhaps the Christian Democrats in particular, so mildly reject their own legislation – that is, the so-called reformed beach protection introduced in 2009 – try to outdo each other in making loosenings in it. It is therefore a piece of legislation that has been introduced itself. I had a specific question, and it was actually about the 100-metre limit. Two years ago you submitted the exercise Reformed beach shelter, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell. That's where you want the border to be changed to only 50 meters. Then I wonder: What kind of beach shelter is left if you restrict it to only 50 metres from the shoreline? Can Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell clarify this? And is this the policy of the Christian Democrats?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-885	Madam President, I would like It is true that we have discussed 50 meters and had up to try starting from 50 meters. Where there are reasons, however, you should of course not use 50 meters, but it should not be as square as it easily becomes if you say it should be 300 meters if there are no special reasons. It is not to relax and reject the legislation when the law has been interpreted incorrectly in the county administrative boards. We were very clear that what we agreed at the time was 100 metres and that it would be 300 metres if there were specific reasons. We know that this has been misinterpreted around the country. So that's what it looks like. In a later exercise we have also said that one could very well try even 50 meters away – that's right.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-888	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting speech, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell! It was very much about restricting the beach protection. You are from Laxå Municipality, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, and I missed something in your speech when you talked about this with valuable assets in the municipality and about the possibility of building on the beaches. I have been led to believe that a very large asset for Laxå municipality is Tiveden's National Park, which the municipality has also expanded during its term of office. I attended that opening and was at a fantastic lake called Unden, which is not built around. I also believe that there are parts of Vättern and Skagern in this national park, and even around these lakes there are beaches where it has not been built. I think that the main reason for this is the strong beach protection that we have had and agreed on politically. So I could only ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell: what do you think it looked like in these lakes if we had not had the beach protection we have had, but rather the model that the Christian Democrats are advocating?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-891	Madam President, I would like The model the Christian Democrats advocate is that we should comply with the legislation and not, as some county boards have done, based on the 300-metre limit. If we take Laxå as an example: This does not only apply to Tiveden's national park, which I also appreciate very much. There are private entrepreneurs in the middle of the park who are doing a fantastic job of showing around, guiding and making it alive in a completely different way than many other national parks. There are extremely many lakes in Laxå municipality, and there are very few inhabitants. I think they're Swedish masters in having beach plots. Of course, however, it should look different depending on the conditions and needs that exist. You should be able to build close and also protect. I would therefore like to turn to Stina's way of presenting this as either or. Not everything is black or white, and not everything is bad or good. Instead, it is a question of adapting this to the circumstances that exist. I want to open up so that more people can settle in the countryside and so that this will be an asset also for a municipality like Laxå.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-894	Madam President, I would like It is precisely the case that Tiveden National Park has created many jobs. I have forgotten the figure, but there are an enormous number of tourists coming to the national park every year, and many of them come from Europe. Out in Europe, there has been no such beach protection legislation as we have had in Sweden. It does not look like it does around lakes like Unden and Skagern, but it is built in private. Just as Jens Holm said in his speech, people with money bought these plots, privatised them and built their houses. If you travel in Europe you can see that it is difficult to get down to the beaches, because they are private. My question was a little bit that it would have been interesting to hear what scenario Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell imagines that we would have had in Sweden if we had not long had this legislation on 100 meters with extended to 300 meters for specific reasons. Now that we're talking about Tiveden's National Park and expansion, I'm also a little curious about another thing. After all, the Christian Democrats were also in favour of the new sector target that was adopted in 2014 regarding forest protection and how many hectares would be legally protected by 2020. I see that the Christian Democrats are also doing a great deal of ironing out in their budget. You are one of the parties that spend the most on the compensation of landowners in terms of protection of a valuable nature. I would like to ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell how the Christian Democrats think that the objective that has been set in Parliament will be met by 2020.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-899	Madam President, I would like You and I have debated this before, Stina Bergström. We have different budgets. We're talking about green tax exchange, and you don't. We are also talking about, as Kristina Yngwe showed in a good way, that there are several ways to protect forests and that we should be able to use the forest well and not consume it but use it responsibly. In this context, I believe that we can also take advantage of the forest raw material that we so badly need in our country for the bioeconomy. It is an incredibly important raw material that we have and that we should take care of and use in a responsible way. Once again: D is not about black or white or that we should have either, but we must find the level and do so in such a way that we are afraid of the forest we have. It includes of course Tiveden's National Park, which is a gem. It's nice that Stina has visited it, and I hope more people do.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-903	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Legal Affairs' motion for a resolution on young offenders. I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 1 and 14. We Moderates have made many good proposals in our motions, including the establishment of youth courts. Unfortunately, we are not getting an announcement about it today, but we will have to come back. The Alliance has left a joint motion, including the one with many good suggestions. We are getting six announcements to the government in this report. That's very good. I will not talk about all the proposals but will confine myself to three different proposals. Madam President, I would like The first proposal deals with increased early intervention by children at risk of reducing the risk of the latter committing crimes. Reservation 1 is about this. The most important thing is to prevent crime. The sooner society reacts, the better. The Crime Prevention Council has presented a report on crime prevention. One way is through so-called home visits, which means that pregnant women belonging to different risk groups receive regular home visits from a nurse or other healthcare professional. The woman is supported and helped, and this continues during the child's first year. The other parent is also supported. The Crime Prevention Council notes in its report that these home visits have led to fewer cases of child abuse and that these children had less problems in the future than the comparator group and thus less risk of falling into crime. We suggest that home visits and similar efforts should be made to a greater extent and that the government should initiate an evaluation of the most effective methods for preventing crime. This is incredibly important. As a police officer, I investigated femininity violations. With great sadness, I noted that so many children grow up in violent homes. It was really sad to see. It was sad, that's all. Unfortunately, this results in many of these children growing up and becoming violent themselves. That is why more families at risk need to be supported and helped. Unfortunately, we are not getting an announcement today on this, but we will have to come back to that. Madam President, I would like The second point I would like to make is the very serious gang crime. The shootings in gang environments have increased dramatically. In 2017, 320 shootings took place, i.e. almost one a day. The result is 42 murders and 140 injured. The majority of both perpetrators and victims are young men in their 20's. These are actually cold-blooded executions. A cop said a while ago that in the past you shot in the leg to hurt, but now you shoot in the head to kill. It's just terrible. Most of these executions – because they are actually executions – take place in public places in densely populated areas where ordinary honest people move. Unfortunately, several innocent people have been murdered. It's extremely tragic. It could have been your child or my child. The number of shootings has more than doubled in just five years. It has become so common that it feels almost normal in Sweden. When it says in the newspaper these days about killings, it's almost that I can't read but just flip by. That's how often it happens. This is a very dangerous development which must be stopped. Many professional critics began committing crimes long before they turned 15. Many with whom I have spoken have said that they would have liked society to have reacted sooner and more clearly so that they had not been caught up in crime. We Moderates and the Alliance want to introduce two new sanctions for 15-17-year-olds. They are called contact obligations and youth surveillance. One of today's announcements is about this. Youth monitoring may, for example, include a ban on leaving the home during weekends or a ban on staying in certain places. This shall be capable of being checked with a ankle bracelet. Already in 2015 we received an announcement regarding youth surveillance, one of the sanctions, but then it was called the weekend separation with a ankle buoy. It has now been three years since our announcement. The government has not put forward any proposals whatsoever in this regard. Nor is there any proposal in the Government's bill list, which is sufficient until September 2018. A few weeks ago, I put a written question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. It applied when the government intends to make these proposals. Here it should also be added that Morgan Johansson was part of the Swedish Television Agenda programme in February 2017, i.e. a year ago, and announced that the government would make proposals on this in 2017. It hasn't happened. The Minister of Justice's answer to my written question was that new youth sanctions are very important for the government and that the proposals are being prepared at a high pace in the Government Office. The government will therefore not present any proposals before September 2018, and then it has been about three and a half years since our announcements. You might wonder if someone thinks it's a fast pace. At least I don't think so. Madam President, I would like The third and last thing I intend to mention is the penalty discount for 18 to 21-year-olds. Reservation 14 applies. The penalty discount means that a person between the ages of 18 and 21 will receive a lighter penalty. In principle, an 18-year-old gets a 50% discount on his sentence. A while ago, a bunch of young men were charged with involvement in three murders here in the Stockholm area. Only one of these was over 21 years old and was sentenced as an adult. The other four received penalty discounts — for involvement in three murders. They're actually cold-hammed, adult killers. They're not supposed to have penalty discounts. I usually react when they call such serious crimes events. It's all wrong. An event is something that just happens. A tsunami is an event where people die. But murder isn't events. There are people who call the terror crime on Drottninggatan an event. No, it wasn't an event. It was a deliberate choice to murder people, including a small child. It wasn't an event. To call it an event is to smooth over the gravity. Murdering people on purpose is serious crime. I know it sounds harsh. But it's actually called that. I don't like it when you call serious violent crimes events. On several occasions, I have asked Morgan Johansson whether he considers the penalty discount to be reasonable. He said he's doing it. In the autumn of 2016 we wrote a joint alliance motion that we wanted a review of the penalty discount. The day before the Committee on Justice was to amend the report, a year ago, where we were to receive an announcement on this review, Prime Minister Löfven announced that the government would review the penalty rebate. It was the first time that the S-led government opened up for a review. It was a turn under the gallows. The government knew they would lose at the vote in the Chamber. The Government has now set up an investigation to report its results in December 2018. It is clear that we in the Alliance are pushing the government with our proposals, both in terms of new sanctions and in terms of the penalty rebate. We Moderates, however, want to go further than a sharpening. We want to remove the penalty rebate completely. The adult should be treated as an adult. Finally, I think gang crime is very serious. It must be fought vigorously. Unfortunately, the government is not taking this seriously, not least in view of what I have said about new sanctions and tightening up on the penalty rebate. The government is acting very slowly. When will the government take serious juvenile delinquency seriously?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-933	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the motion report on young offenders. It is a rather good motion report that describes the development of criminal policy in our country. Many of the issues that the Swedish Democrats alone have fought for, and where we have also met strong opposition from you others, have come very close to being realized. Punishment discounts for people between the ages of 18 and 21 are a clear and good example. In the 2014 election campaign, most of the alliance parties promised measures against the penalty rebates. But after the election, nothing happened. The Alliance parties chose instead to vote against the only motion in the Riksdag to remove the penalty rebates, that is, the motion that the Swedish Democrats had written. But a few years ago, the Moderates woke up. And last year, the rest of the Alliance hung on. We got an announcement about the penalty discounts. True, it was a watered down announcement, strongly influenced by the Center Party. Instead of removing the penalty rebates, they should be retained but reviewed. And those who may receive a reduced penalty discount should be recidivists. That's what the announcement says. These were the demands of the Center Party in the Allied Joint Negotiation for the announcement. At least there was a clear improvement in the position on the issue. It has put the necessary pressure on the government and is leading further policy developments in the right direction, that is, in our direction. We have seen that development in question. It seems almost like the election year is a year in which all parties more or less come over to the Swedish Democrats' court in criminal policy. It promises both the one and the other that it has voted against throughout its term of office: more police officers, higher salaries, tougher penalties and the penalty rebates. Where has that commitment been for the rest of the term of office, Madam President? Criminal policy in Sweden is a total failure. This is because no party other than the Swedish Democrats has acted in time. The government has had some really steady sabbatical years in criminal policy, and the Alliance has, to say the least, laid flat for the government. Criminal policy is not something that can only be pursued every four years, when it is time to go to elections. A credible commitment and a long-term guarantee are needed. That is why the Red-Green Government, among other things, will not succeed in training the police officers who are widely promised to the voters. In times when liberal parties are fishing votes for the Swedish democrats' court in criminal policy, we do best to harvest, and we do. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have ensured that there is a majority in parliament behind several proposals. It concerns drug testing of persons under 15 years of age, more forms of sanctions for young offenders, more crimes committed by persons under 15 years of age to be investigated and so on. One important issue that the Swedish Democrats are alone in pushing is that the age of the criminal authority should be lowered from 15 to 13 years. We are open to even lowering to 12 years, if that would be more appropriate. If we were to get through only the proposal to reduce the age of the criminal authorities, many announcements could be realised. But it is only the Swedish Democrats who want to lower the age of the criminal authorities, and we ensure that some of the effects we seek are supported by a parliamentary majority. There are several reasons why we want to see earlier and clearer measures against young offenders. Of course, first of all, the development of society calls for new possible measures. More and more younger people are woven into criminal environments, commit crimes and use drugs at an age where it was not as common for a few decades se da n. Not opening up opportunities to act on time, but allowing young people to cultivate a criminal identity before they are 18 years of age, is a very bad option. Young people who commit crimes must have an immediate and clear sense of consistency and be given the opportunity to choose a better life. That is why we are concerned that the Center Party has slowed down the Alliance, for example on the issue of penalty rebates for people between 18 and 21 years of age. We have heard several other parties say that they want to remove them, not least the Moderates, who have said in this debate that they want to remove them completely. There's a deal. But as I said, this does not apply to the Center Party. The penalty rebates that the Center Party defends today work a bit like a try-on offer. Do some crimes, and we'll see if this is something for you. The first time you go there, it's free. This could be the election slogan of the Center Party in criminal policy. Madam President, I would like There are some common and decisive factors for when the risk is greatest for relapse into crime. That's when the perpetrator is young and when the penalty is less than six months. Within this category, crime is the fastest to relapse. That is why earlier and clearer measures are very important. An equally important reason for consistent and harsh penalties to be awarded to young adults is the victim's perspective. In Dagens Juridik, on 14 February, one could read about a rape committed by an 18-year-old. The case shows a little bit how it works today. The penalty for rape is two years in prison. However, since there is a youth discount, which the Center Party, among other things, defends, the penalty value ended up in one year's imprisonment for the 18-year-old offender. Account was also taken of the husband's personal circumstances when measuring the sentence, and he was finally sentenced to two months' imprisonment plus probation — for a rape. The age of the perpetrator and the personal circumstances of the perpetrator are thus taken into account. It was two months in prison for a rape. And this is just one of a series of more or less frightening examples. Madam President, I would like I am not ashamed for a moment to represent the voice in the Swedish Parliament that takes the least account of the age of the perpetrator and the least consideration of personal circumstances when punishment is to be measured out for crime. According to the Swedish Democrats, punishment has its own value in itself, from a victim's perspective. And the Swedish Democrats are the only party that has consistently and clearly worked to remove the penalty rebates and to take into account the excess to the victim's abuse when measuring the penalty. Madam President, I would like The Alliance was in power for eight years without doing anything about these problems. Stefan Löfven has served as Prime Minister for three years without bringing about a single change. If you want to ensure the victim perspective in criminal policy, the Swedish Democrats are the only guarantee for it. I call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 15 on punishment and reservation 18 on the age of the criminal authorities.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-951	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are thundering with a series of sheer insolences and lies about the policy of the Center Party and about the inner life of the Alliance. How can Adam Marttinen have any insight into how we have discussed these matters? It's for me a riddle and a pure falsarium. It is true that the Moderates want to go further than we do when it comes to the general and automatic write-down of penalties for people between 18 and 21 years of age. I also want to reduce it, but I do not want to rule out the possibility for the courts to do so. It is possible that Adam Marttinen thinks it is a bad idea, but that is how we have landed, and that is how the common policy of the Alliance is designed. I am sure we have not heard the last of that discussion, but I would be happy to take it. The Swedish Democrats are extremely keen to beat themselves to the chest for all the good ideas that they think everyone else has apeed for. I have not seen a single good idea from the Swedish Democrats who have not first been anywhere else. These are copies of politics from elsewhere. At its best, it is a reasonable criminal and judicial policy that raises the important and urgent questions that people in society are asking themselves. At its worst, it is a policy drawn from those parts of the world where the principles of the rule of law are now being dismantled and where the rule of law is under pressure. I am talking about Poland and Hungary, our European friends and neighbours. That is extremely worrying. They are friends of the Swedish Democrats, and that is the way they want to go. Madam President, I would like It has been said that democracy is the worst form of government that has been tried, apart from all the other forms that have been tried through time. The words are the eternal Winston Churchill. And there is something to consider at this time when the principles of the rule of law are being flinched and people want to throw twelve-year-olds in prison. We see a couple of our European neighbours, whom I mentioned, taking a dangerous path away from the fundamental values that we associate with a liberal Western democracy and disregarding it for democracy, so necessary the freedom of the press and – equally bad – the independent judiciary. The rule of law is perhaps the most fundamental element of the stable society, in democracy, in which the weak can be justified against the strong, in which the individual can have his or her case tried, and in which he who violates our common rules is prosecuted and punished in accordance with what is legally established in a legally secure and effective manner with equality before the law. How we deal with those who commit crimes, how punishment works and how we can best cause someone to break negative life patterns and live their lives in respect of the law and their fellow human beings is one of the cornerstones of the rule of law. No one should misunderstand me on this point: everyone bears responsibility for his actions. If you commit a crime, you should be prosecuted for them and punished. In addition, some penalties should be stricter than they are today – for example for sexual offences – in order to better match the value of the violation suffered by a victim. But any society that really wants to build security for everyone throughout our elongated country makes sense in seeking to understand the causes of crime and what gets a perfectly ordinary child with the simple claims that children have – to play, to laugh, to be comforted when you are sad, to have a glass of juice, love, respect and a hug from time to time – to become a young adult without respect for the lives and freedom of others who have found it necessary and viable to use and develop their abilities to put terror in people and commit serious and, for those who suffer, deeply offensive crimes. Madam President, I would like No one is born a criminal, and although from the brownest grief of the social media it is portrayed that the one who has a certain origin is automatically to be regarded as lower moral and more criminal than others, that is not, of course, the case; it understands every thinking person. There is a path from the innocent child to the hardened criminal who was once attacked by everyone convicted of crime. Every obstacle on that road has a value, every stop and every way off. Our job here and now in committee and in this report is to create these alternative ways and incentives to choose them. It must be done with hard obstacles, but also with making the other road experienced navigable. Madam President, I would like On this very road, we meet the individuals to whom this report relates: young offenders. The key to their future and the development of our society is how we deal with them at this very stage of their lives. If we handle this right, we do so so that many people do not have to be subjected to crime, that the young offenders themselves have a better life – a life in crime is not a dance of roses and should not be so – and we save huge values as a full-fledged lifestyle crisis costs society every year. Madam President, I would like Nor does anyone begin their criminal career with murder and felony robbery. It is perhaps not primarily discussed in this report, but it is worth reminding us that it is the simple crimes of theft in stores, burglaries and other things that allow a young person to shift up the speed of the road downhill. That is why it is so important that we do our very best to put an end to so-called entry-level crime, that simpler crimes are also prosecuted. Of course, it is also important for those who are victims to deserve it, but also for those who commit crimes early to feel that it was not very comfortable. This issue will be discussed later. On this point, the Center Party has some good proposals which I hope you will like. The committee's proposal for a decision contains a number of important elements which will contribute to this very point. When it comes to legal justice, the time aspect is always important. There is an Anglo-Saxon saying that applies in the context: D layed justice is no justice – delayed justice is no justice. And in many respects it is so, not only for the victim of the crime but also, in fact, for the young person who must be given the opportunity to pay off his crime, pay his debt and move on in life. I think it was a pity that this time we did not hear more of the alliance policy in this area, but we are getting a bit on the way and the aim is that we will form a government together after the elections this autumn. Then, if not before, the alliance policy can be fully implemented, although I must also thank the government parties who choose not to reserve a great deal of our policy, which is perhaps often done just for it to be done. This will make it easier to quickly get several important reforms in place after the elections. Madam President, I would like Early intervention is crucial, especially as we see crime declines in age. Anything that can cut lead times and facilitate action should be taken into account. Police and social services must have the opportunity to exchange information with each other, of course in a responsible way and with great respect for the individual and her integrity, but sometimes we feel like we sift mosquitoes and swallow camels when it comes to privacy protection. Here it is a matter of quickly getting action that can mean the whole difference for a young person's future. Social intervention groups are a form of work that has proved to be working well. I have heard clever descriptions of social intervention groups as some kind of gourd with criminals, but it is about quickly getting a wide range of effective measures on the ground that can be both hard obstacles and alternative development paths for a young person on a slide. One of the areas in this report that has obtained a broad majority after committee reading is the issue of penalties for young people. This is absolutely central and crucial to the purpose of the work against young offenders. For a long time, the financial penalty was perhaps the most common one, but it is frankly not a good punishment for a young person. Most people don't have their own resources. Either it's the parents who pay, and then it's not a punishment for the young one. Or the youth is in debt, which makes it even less interesting to participate in the economy of the majority society and to take a regular job. I myself believe in the constructive power of good work. There is a deep spiritual satisfaction in feeling that you are doing good. That goes for everyone. And I think it's incredibly important for young people who are in some kind of identity uncertainty. Community service can be a key to feeling this. And something that should not be underestimated in this context are also structures and very clear rules, that the young person is given a proper chance to feel confident about knowing what is going on, that the boundaries become clear and that there are actually a lot of adults who not only care but who are actually interesting to talk to and who can work together on a common goal. I am convinced that this and more about youth sanctions can develop much more and for several purposes, not least in terms of establishing contact areas and understanding between young offenders and society. Some of which we did not get the majority for this time are the idea of the Center Party and the Moderates of community service. For example, anyone who attacks blue-light vehicles should be able to provide community service to the rescue services and the police in cases where they can and want to receive young people. I would therefore like to give everyone an extra chance to vote in favour of this by calling for our reservation 21 in paragraph 23. Otherwise, of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party and the Alliance and the points on which we form the majority in the committee's report, but for time to come, I only call for the reservation that I mentioned.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-978	Madam President, I would like Johan Hedin asks how we in the Swedish Democrats can know how the alliance discussions have gone in terms of penalty rebates for them between 18 and 21 years. Common sense, I'd say. There are four reservations from the alliance parties in the report. They describe the attitude of individual parties towards the penalty rebate. Among all alliance parties, the Center Party is the most distinguished party among those who want to preserve the penalty rebates. It is therefore not difficult to figure out that the Center Party has been the party which, in the negotiations within the Alliance, has tried to preserve the penalty rebates to the greatest extent. It was also claimed here that the Swedish Democrats are certainly not the first on the ball on some issues, but we should only have copied our policies and our proposals from other parties. I can only mention the begging ban, the withdrawal of citizenship for IS warriors and the withdrawal period in border controls, as well as the penalty rebate that we were alone in running at the beginning of this term of office. Then the Center Party, the Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats voted against removing the penalty rebates in accordance with the motion that the Swedish Democrats wrote 2014/ 15. I would like to ask you a question about this. Why is it reasonable for an adult who is 18 years of age and who commits a rape with a penalty scale of two years in prison to receive a 50% reduction in punishment? In addition, personal circumstances are taken into account, resulting in two months' imprisonment. This policy stands for the Center Party. I just want to ask why Johan Hedin thinks this is reasonable.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-982	Madam President, I would like I have taken the habit of not reviewing judgments, because not infrequently the whole picture is clear. In this particular case, I do not know what was behind the verdict. Sexual crimes are actually the category of offences in which the Center Party wants to tighten the penalties. There is a wide range of proposals in this area from us in the Alliance, which I believe Adam Marttinen will do well to examine very carefully. Moreover, it is clear that there is a marked ideological difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party in this. It is so very important that we see justice policy as a goal and not as a means of running a different agenda. Populists who have tried to so split between different groups and people in society have at all times used justice policy and criminal policy to try to scare people into choosing a non-democratic path. Sometimes it has succeeded, with terrible results as a result. It is a path that no sane person can want to go. Two weeks ago Adam Marttinen's colleague Kent Ekeroth stood here in the speaker's chair and highlighted Hungary as a positive example. I would like to put a counter-question to Adam Marttinen: is Hungary a positive example of the development of the rule of law?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-986	Madam President, I would like My original question can be concretized very easily. It concerns the penalty rebates for young people between 18 and 21 years of age. You don't have to go to an individual case to understand the consequences if you remove half the penalty value in the sentence measurement. It's possible for a rape from two years in prison down to one year in prison. In addition, I took a concrete example where there were extenuating circumstances. The very principle that you automatically get 50% reduced penalty value for rape when you are an adult, I question. I do not believe that Johan Hedin does so to the same extent, at least not according to the reservation he has in the motion report. My question remains: why is it reasonable for adults to have a reduced penalty value of 50% when they commit a crime? I have still not received an answer to the question, and I do not think it can be so difficult to answer that question. It does not have to depend on a particular case; it is a matter of principle that concerns the penalty rebates and what we have in today's report. With regard to other issues which are outside the report, we must, of course, return to them in debates concerning them. However, I understand why we are trying to spread fog curtains with issues that do not concern this motion report. This is because one cannot stand by one's own politics and look the victims in the eye. You get the offender released after two months after a rape. It is Johan Hedin's responsibility and obligation to answer the question why this is reasonable.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-990	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to clarify any misunderstandings on this issue. Just what Adam Marttinen points out – an automatic write-down of penalties – is exactly what we don't want to see. However, as I said, we should not completely exclude the possibility for the courts to use this. However, the automatic write-down shall be removed.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-996	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report 'Young offenders'. I would like, on behalf of the Liberals, to pay particular attention to reservation 9 in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which we call for approval. We heard before the vote that there are sharp intervals in how courts and society view crimes committed by young people – depending on their age. It is therefore interesting to look at the age range. If they are under 15 years of age, they are not of criminal age. If they are 15 - 18 years old, they are judged in a special way. If they are 18 to 21 years old, they get the so-called penalty discount, which some colleagues have been into before. Crime prevention, of course, has an impact on how we manage to combat youth crime and juvenile delinquency. There were too few posts in that spirit, and instead there was a lot of focus on the penalty discount. However, some of the report also touches on the importance of local authorities' work in vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like As the Crime Prevention Council mentioned in its report, many crimes are committed by young people. Therefore, what is done in preschool, what is done in school and what is done in external service by police officers at municipal level becomes important. Unfortunately, we have to regularly highlight the shortcomings that exist in society. This is not the first time we have debated these issues, and it is not the first time we have paid attention to the situation in the most vulnerable areas. Why is it important to mention them in particular in this debate? Well, it is in those areas around the country many of these young people commit crimes. We need a functioning police service – not, as we now see with this government's policy, fewer police officers and fewer in external service. We need an activity that is able to invest in district policemen who can look for schools and recreation centres and try to get some of these young people to think better. We also need better intervention in these areas in order to get rid of the criminals who spend their time recruiting many of the young people in these very areas. There are figures and evidence from the crime prevention work that emphasizes the importance of social intervention groups where the social services, the municipality and the police work together. It has been good, but long-term measures are needed. School policy should not concern us very much here, but it is crucial if you manage to get a young person to complete primary school and start upper secondary education. Today we are up to 17 1⁄2 percent in Sweden who do not have basic eligibility for upper secondary school. Unfortunately, there are probably many of those people who choose an alternative route in life instead of education, namely crime. Some of us often visit towns and cities and police stations, for example in Malmö, where they talk about so-called errand boys. It is 12 and 13-year-olds who stand up for a 500-piece and are used to transport drugs to older criminals. That is the sad thing about this work, and that is why it is important to emphasise crime prevention. On the Liberal side, we have also made a number of proposals in this report regarding the mandate of social services to intervene. This is in order to provide the social services with additional tools in their box, such as being able to decide on so-called "intermediate coercion" – to oblige young people to participate in various programme actions at home. There have been regulations on this, and it has been evaluated. Unfortunately, the National Board of Health and Welfare has stated in the evaluation that this type of decision is very rarely applied. It therefore needs to be strengthened. We in the Liberals are pleased that we are getting a motion through this report: that the prosecution system should be able to intervene more quickly and take decisions on youth services even in the case of minor crimes. The majority of the Committee on Justice proposes a declaration that the government should come back with a proposal to that effect. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to comment on the government's approach to this policy area. We have heard in the past about youth monitoring and various types of youth services, but we have not yet seen any proposals. It has been investigated and announced, but we have not yet received any proposals to Parliament for ruling. This government has soon passed its term of office without proposing any strong measures against organised crime and, in particular, youth crime, which is unfortunately spreading. How do we know? Well, many of the young people who are the subject of this debate we read about far too often. It's about hand grenades. It's about shootings and killings. This applies to serious violent crimes such as assault, but it also applies to open drug sales. That is why it is important to invest in what I have talked about, namely the prevention of crime, but also in better police capacity. However, it must be complemented by stronger policies in the legislation. That is why we come to this with youth monitoring. That is why it is important that we get through the change in the penalty rebate: in order to make it clear on the part of society that you cannot commit serious crimes, ruthless crimes, and yet expect to get a 50% penalty discount in court. That is exactly what many of these young people and, not least, their leaders have systematically calculated, Madam President. That is why we see that many of those who commit these very serious crimes are just young people, and that is why we are critical that after almost four years the government has not yet delivered anything in this area.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-1010	Madam President, I would like Sweden will be even more secure with better welfare and less crime. We Social Democrats want a secure and equal society that creates hope and enables a good life for all. That's why we're tough on both crime and the causes of crime. You should feel safe in your residential area, at your workplace, on the street and throughout the country. You should feel secure by being able to support yourself through work, and you should feel safe if your life takes a new turn– if you become ill, lose your job or are on parental leave, for example. You should dare take chances to try something new. The school should be compensatory, and all children should receive a good education. It should not matter what family you are born into or what economic conditions you have. The class divides are going away. Everyone who can contribute to our common, and everyone will benefit from the welfare during different phases of life. Society should above all be at its strongest when the individual needs it most. By securing security, all of us can freely live our lives as we wish. Social-democratic policy is about reaching that vision step by step. Despite the fact that during this parliamentary term we have reversed developments in several areas, we still have a lot to do. The gaps between people in Sweden have increased for some time. Only in Stockholm can we clearly see that it distinguishes several years in life expectancy between residents at different metro stations. Your parents'educational background affects how you are doing at school and what chances you get in life. Not surprisingly, it is often young people from tangled family relationships combined with difficulties in school who end up in crime. Many times it is the children of parents with poor economics and sometimes even substance abuse problems. One parent may not be in the picture at all. The risk is further increased if there are no other adult role models in the child's environment and even if criminal gangs exist in the child's vicinity. Madam President, I would like We are talking about young people here today – young people who could have their whole lives ahead of them but who, for various reasons, have ended up on a criminal path where the possibility of a good life is limited. Young people who commit crimes are the recruitment base for those who are caught in crime. Besides destroying their own lives, they limit other people's freedom. We can never allow that. Therefore, society must react quickly when a young person is entering a criminal path. Our children and young people need the best conditions to live a good life – crime should not even be an option. Work, school and housing are basic prerequisites for safety. Today there are 250 000 more people in work than before we took office. Much more is being built, and we have reversed the negative trend in school. At the same time, more remains to be done. The Social Democrats are also fighting crime. That is why, during this term of office, the government has made a historic effort on the police. In total, the police will be strengthened by SEK 7.1 billion over the next few years. At the same time, we want 10,000 more police employees. Serious violent crimes and illegal possession of firearms and explosives are some of the more than 30 areas in which the government has initiated criminal proceedings. Crime prevention has also been stepped up considerably. We have also recently received a encouraging report from the police, which says that our special action against organised crime has begun to bear fruit. Two things that stand out are that more seizures of weapons have been made and that the number of shootings has gone down in the country. The police have accumulated power, and it has produced results. That is how we need to keep working! Madam President, I would like I will briefly review our positions on the six announcements proposed by the bourgeoisie. We want young people who commit crimes to be prosecuted as soon as possible. Therefore, in January 2017, the Government commissioned an investigator to investigate and propose measures leading to faster prosecution of juveniles who commit crimes. The mission will be presented as early as next month. We also want young people to have appropriate sanctions. The government therefore commissioned an investigator to propose new sanctions for young offenders, as the investigator has done. The proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office and will be presented shortly. As far as the rules on confidentiality are concerned, we believe that it is extremely important for the exchange of information to work. There is already an ongoing investigation to be presented in August. We have therefore had no reason to reserve ourselves against the announcements that are being made. The crucial issue for reducing crime is what one is really ready to do to achieve security. There are right-wing politicians who use people's fears to gain power and who tell people that they can't do anything and that it can't be changed. They've given up before they've even tried. Some young people still end up in crime. People are concerned, and a new type of crime is trying to take root. It doesn't have to stay that way-- there's another way. But then the abandonment must not rule. We Social Democrats know that change is possible and that it requires political will. We have that will. We choose security and a strong welfare before tax cuts, because that is how we prevent crime and have the resources to fight crime. Society is much stronger than fear and much stronger than crime.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-1029	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I have to say that I agree with Sultan that prevention is very important. It is also important to have good housing and work and to support children, young people and families as much as possible. In my speech, I mentioned, among other things, the home visits, which we want to expand. But young people commit serious and serious crimes on an increasing scale. I mentioned, for example, this with gang shootings included: 320 shootings in 2017, 42 dead and 140 injured. The police are calling for the policy to be tightened up in the area of legislation, because they simply cannot do this. As I also mentioned in my speech, three years ago we announced that the government would ensure that weekend separation with a ankle buoy – what is now called youth surveillance. This has not been presented by the government. As I said, it has been three years, and in response to my written question, Morgan Johansson said that the government is preparing this at a high pace. Three years don't think I'm fast. It surprises me if anyone thinks so. At the shootings, innocent people have also been killed. So I wonder if Sultan thinks three years is a fast pace. And when will you present new proposals?
i-b2896e0a90812e35-1033	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ellen Juntti, for the question! I agree with your description of the problem. No human should be exposed to insecurity, and of course the gang shootings should not go unnoticed. If you commit a crime, it will lead to consequences and punishment. But, as I said, the sanctions are on the way and will be presented quite soon. I asked the department last today what it looks like, and they said it's on its way and will be presented soon. In three years' time or not, I actually find it difficult to answer.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-1034	Mr President, I would like to I can reply to that: it is a very long time, especially when it comes to such serious crime and the police are appealing for legislative tightening because this is completely derailing. Yesterday morning, when I woke up, I read an article about a man robbed and beaten by a gang in broad daylight in the afternoon. He was beaten down with a trap and taken to the hospital. I don't know what happened to him. If you hit him in the head with a trap, his life could actually be ruined. Of course, I do not wish that to be the case, but it is serious crime. This is read about every other day. This morning I woke up to the news, where it was reported that a youth group of four five people in Helsingborg had been involved in a knife fight – one dead and four injured. This is read every two days. It's really serious. These youths have certainly not started a knife fight at once, but have certainly been involved in crime for many years. This might not have happened if the government had speeded up a little and came up with new sanctions instead of taking such an incredible amount of time. The same is true of attacks on police officers and police houses. There, too, the government has sedated. I think the investigation period is two and a half years. No one will be happier than me if there are soon proposals from the government. Sultan said it's coming soon, but there was no proposal in the bill list. I wonder when, in the near future, there will be.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-1038	Mr President, I would like to Ellen Juntti asked for more sanctions, and it sounds like the government has done nothing on these issues. Indeed, as I mentioned earlier, we have tightened the penalties in a number of areas specifically related to organised crime. So it is not at all true that we should have done nothing – a lot has been done, and a lot is coming. On this issue too, it is on the way and will soon be ready. While fighting crime, we are also investing in efforts that will prevent, for example, school and youth initiatives. So there is a lot going on in parallel.
i-b2896e0a90812e35-1040	Mr President, I would like to Youth delinquency, which we are debating now, is a matter of real concern. Surely none of us suffer not from the victims but also from the young people who are so early drawn into the criminal arena. There is a need for both clear measures and much more prevention. With my own background as a teacher, I think that we cannot stress enough the role of the school in this, and of course also that of social services, which several speakers have mentioned. But the place where all the young people meet is the school. I cannot help but recall the response we received from the Baltimore police during our joint study trip in December, when we asked the question v ad that is best for preventing gang crime. The answer was education and school. This is very important, especially in the vulnerable areas. But we must not only look at these areas unilaterally; this applies to all areas of Sweden. It applies to the entire kingdom, from the smallest small community to the largest and from the million-dollar program area to the small village. Young people must be seen, and there must be adults who can see young people who are on the run and fix this very early in order to avoid them slipping into the criminal path. I refuse to believe anyone was born a criminal. I firmly believe that every human being has that choice and can be supported to leave the criminal path. That's where school is important. That's why this government is investing so much in school. Not least in this year's budget, efforts are being made specifically to address socio-economically weak areas, where schools are receiving extra support. That is where the work is needed, so that those who are weak can become strong, so strong that they clearly reject the criminal course and do not become runaway boys in the way we have just heard about, but know that there are other careers. To my colleagues in the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, I can send you something that is currently being discussed in the Education Committee. This is about the read-write-count guarantee, which is now under threat. It would ensure that the very students who need early support, right from primary school, also receive it. This is something that we in Sweden have been terrible about. We have always wondered why Finland is doing so well. They're doing well because they're betting early. We need to get better at that. This was a small detour from the subject. Just as important as investing in school, so that we can see these young people, it is that we give clear information on what applies. It is therefore a good thing that there is broad agreement on important issues in the report. Then we can go forward together. There's a lot going on. The Alliance parties also want announcements on the points that are already under way. We in S and MP have no objection to again pointing out to the government that things are important, even if they are already in the pipeline. But there is no reason to reserve for what is already happening. That is why we have not reserved ourselves either. It is good that we are reviewing the penalty discount for those aged 18 to 20. It is good that we can test faster measures. It is good to turn every stone around to make the measures clear. Then we should probably not have an overconfidence that harsher punishments will keep these young people from crime. At these young ages you hardly know what punishments are given for each crime; you just keep up. That, too, is the frightening thing about it. That is why adults are needed to lift these young people early. I think we need to agree on this. Mr President, I would like to We must invest in these areas. We must ensure that young people understand early that it is not the course of crime that gives a life worth living. It's an honest life that gives a life worth living. I support the committee's proposal.
