i-c01eb52f284653f5-21	Madam President, I would like I apologise for the delay due to traffic problems due to weather and wind, both in air and on land. Lars Beckman has asked me what concrete measures I have taken as a minister in the performance of my duties to ensure that the government and authorities take socio-economic account of predators in deprived municipalities and areas, which I write about on the government's website and in the budget bill. He has also asked what measures I intend to take to make it easier and cheaper to live and work in the countryside for the individuals affected by the extensive predatory pressure. The Government's ambition is, and has been, throughout its term of office to bring order to Swedish game management. The long-term objective of predator policy is to achieve and maintain favourable conservation status for large predators, while not significantly hampering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Sweden shall have viable predator populations. At the same time, people who live and work in Sweden's countryside will be able to feel safe, hunt and keep domesticated. The government is continuously working to improve confidence in predator policy. For a faster, more efficient and more equal decision-making process, matters and targets for hunting large predators are now to be dealt with promptly and decisions on such hunting are appealed to the Administrative Court in Luleå. In order for the courts to be able to review any appeals against decisions on the hunting of wolves prior to hunting, such decisions may now be taken by 1 October at the latest. Predators' administration is regionalised. For anchoring and credibility in game management, there is a need for local influence, collaboration and real participation, for example through the game management delegations. In these contexts, there is the possibility of consultation and effective influence in the processes of the authorities. The government values the role of delegations in this context and has recently strengthened local influence by expanding delegations with two representatives of different local interests. The government has also improved the possibility of providing financial support for measures to prevent and compensate for damage to wild game in agriculture. The government has therefore made large increases in the grant for this support, from just over SEK 30 million when the government took over to more than SEK 52 million. In order to simplify the use of these funds by individual farmers, the Government decided on 23 November 2017 on rules facilitating aid for those purposes. This is intended to contribute to the long-term anchoring of predator policy among the people living and working in rural areas, i.e. those whose everyday lives may be affected by predators' bodies. Sustainable game management is characterised by a balance between wildlife presence on the one hand and economic activities and human habitats on the other. The government's intention is also to provide good conditions for game management as a nutrition and as a leisure activity. This can help create jobs in rural areas. Wildlife is an important resource to be managed in the long term.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-28	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the debate, Minister Bucht! You experienced everyday life for those of us who live in the countryside with delayed flights and poor winter road maintenance. But it's nice that you made it here. I wrote this interpellation about predators after a predator meeting that we had in Ljusdal last fall. There was a great deal of interest in the meeting. There was a very large turnout and many upset feelings that evening in Ljusdal in Hälsingland. People had gone 200 miles to attend the meeting. If you compare the mood of the meeting in Ljusdal with the response that the Council of State just presented in this Chamber, you can say that it is like the difference between night and day and black and white. At the meeting, where people had gone from all over Gävleborg, they were running mad at the predator politics being conducted. It was disappointed with the policy of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. What upset most perhaps was the very lack of consideration and respect that it means to live in Swedish countryside. During the last parliamentary term, the Riksdag made a wise decision that we should have 170 – 270 wolves in Sweden. It was not that we were sitting in this Chamber and making it up, but there were extensive meetings around Sweden, not least in my home county, Gävleborg. There we had many meetings with all the different stakeholders to find out how many predators we should have and that they should be spread all over Sweden. Of course it's not funny– that's why I asked about the socio-economic considerations – when a preschool in Ljusdal doesn't dare and wants to let the children out on the preschool farm. It happened in Ockelbo, too. The workers' page wrote about the preschool staff in Ockelbo who said: We can't let children out on the farm at risk of wolf. I noticed that the County Administrative Board in Stockholm made a wise decision on the protection of two wolves and probably the only two wolves in Stockholm. It was precisely then used as an argument: We take care of the children. It was a very good decision that the County Administrative Board of Stockholm made about protection hunting. But the question that can then be asked is whether the children in Ljusdal are worth less than children in Stockholm? It must be reasonable that it is the same legislation and the same application that applies wherever the children live. We also know after interpellation debates last autumn here with another minister that they do not now work after 170 – 270 wolves in Sweden but rather 300, and this without the Riksdag having made a new decision. What kind of signals does it send to the citizens of Sweden? Sweden's highest decision-making assembly has taken a decision that citizens naturally expect our authorities to follow. It would of course be interesting to hear Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht explain why the government does not ensure that our authorities comply with Parliament's decisions. In my next speech, I intend to include the predator issue in the overall picture of those living in rural areas, how you feel and feel the government's directly anti-rural policy.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-36	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Affairs! A good policy for the whole of Sweden is fundamental for the whole of Sweden to live and that we have a living countryside. There today's policy, from tax shocks on electric cars, to truck tax with more expensive transport as a result, to air taxes, where we already see the result of withdrawn flights in my own country, Värmland, for example, before the introduction. It is good to have agricultural and forestry policies that work. I will debate the Species Protection Regulation later today with Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog – an issue where little is happening from government. If you take note of what has been said in the debates here in Parliament earlier, you can understand that the government's two different parties and the Environment Minister Karolina Skog from the Green Party on the one hand and the Rural Minister from the Social Democrats on the other hand are far from united. This also applies to predatory policy. We have a parliamentary decision that there should be 170 – 270 wolves, as Lars Beckman said here just before. I debated the wolf issue with the Minister for the Environment before Christmas and I did not get the impression that Parliament's decisions were particularly heavy there, but rather that we need more wolves in Sweden. At home in Värmland today it is estimated that there are about as many wolves only in our county as the Riksdag has decided that there should be in the whole country, and then it becomes a bit distorted. It is therefore interesting to ask what the Minister for Rural Development is doing and what the government is doing. It feels like the government is talking with quite a lot of tongues, and it sounds about as united as it does on People and Defence in Sälen. Depending on which party or department you represent, you have different messages. It is serious when it comes to the signals we send out into society. Our ambition is for us to have a predatory policy that is sustainable and acceptable and that has an acceptance in society. We shall have a predatory policy that allows a functioning rural area to be established where one can carry out the activity one wants. My question is therefore: what is the rural minister doing specifically for us to have an active rural policy and predatory policy worthy of the name – a predatory policy that works and for which there is respect not only in Parliament's chambers and within the tariffs of our capital, but in the counties where the wolf actually exists and where people live with wolves around the corner?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-43	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that I am given the opportunity to discuss rural conditions, which is about much more than the hunting of wolves. I will come back to the many different parts of this. I am also pleased with the renewed interest shown by the Moderates in Swedish countryside. That was not the case during your reign. Or is it a wolf in sheep's clothing that performs? Let me get back to the hunt. The Government's ambition throughout its term of office has been to bring order to predatory management. It must be sustainable and effective. It is important for people to feel that we are taking this seriously. When this government took office in autumn 2014, the hunting of wolves did not work at all. There was a huge mess in the whole predatory policy. It was chaos. The Alliance handed over a terrible mess in predatory policy, particularly in the area of licence hunting. Madam President, I would like According to the statistics for the alliance government's last three years, there was no hunting for wolves in 2012. In 2013 there were three wolves, and then the license hunt was interrupted by judgments. In 2014 there was no hunting for wolves. So there were three wolves in three years. Madam President, I would like This government got predatory policy in place and put order in order. During our first three years, 83 wolves were licensed. Compare it to three! I think there is reason for Members to be a little self-critical. There was complete disorder in predatory policy when we took office. Local presence is important, including through wildlife management missions. There are representatives of political parties and of wildlife management, outdoor life, tourism and forestry. There are many different interests that should be included for this to be good. Madam President, I would like Whether we have a good representation is the basis for this to work out that it is orderly and that there are legal proceedings that hold. That was not the case before. It was annulled by the Supreme Administrative Court, and it was even the case of the European Commission against Sweden. It was a complete mess in the hunting of wolves, but this government has made it right.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your intervention. I don't know who the government is trying to talk to. At least it can't be for Sweden's hunters, because they know how it is. It cannot be for those living in rural areas, because they see the effects of the policy of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. Perhaps some SSUs who read this protocol are then impressed by the Government, but those who live in the countryside in Ljusdal are not impressed. I believe that the failed predatory policy of the Green Party and the Social Democrats must be put into a wider context. Why were people so pissed off in Ljusdal that night? Well, I think that's the combined effect. I think it's because of the tax shock on fuel. It is the biggest increase in Sweden's history with automatic enumeration of the tax without political decisions. I think it is because of the vehicle tax, which is to be shocked by cars used in rural areas – on diesel cars, which the Green Party wants to ban. I think it's due to a lack of winter maintenance. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for Rural Development does not read the whole of Hälsingland, but if he had, he would have seen a car on a car that has been taken off the road for the past few weeks. I believe that this is due to extinguished street lighting on state roads and forced transformation of state roads in Hälsingland to individual roads. In order to save 15,000 a year, the Swedish Transport Administration decided to spend 500 000 SEK to reconfigure a road. I think it's because Telia's copper net is turned off, which we could read about last week, and the latest idea that you shouldn't be allowed to burn in your wood stove that you have in the kitchen to cook. I think it's because of the airline tax, which you're introducing. Madam President, I would like I have not even mentioned the kilometre tax, the energy tax and the switch-off of nuclear power. I could talk for two more minutes about all the anti-rural policies you are pursuing. I think that's why people get so pissed off and 50 people come to Ljusdal one night to discuss predatory policy. They are simply accursed that Parliament's decisions are not being complied with. I understand very well that those who are small farmers in Ljusdal are sad and angry that his worries and small businesses are not taken seriously when wolves, bears or other predators are ironing around the corner. Then we're back to my interpellation. What has the government done to compensate? You write on your website that you should take socio-economic consideration and that you should be able to live and live throughout Sweden. These are fine words that all parties support. No one has a different opinion. There is no one who has a different opinion than that there should be order in predatory policy. The problem is that the policy you are pursuing is quite the opposite, as I said in my previous speech. It would be fun if you had some small measure that made it easier to live in Hälsingland inland or in Gästrikland. The government could say that you have raised the unemployment fund or other contributions. But that is not what people are asking for, but that you should actually be able to live and live throughout Sweden. At that point, predatory policy is an important part, but, as the Government said, it is of course the whole of politics that is important. The September elections give voters the opportunity to evaluate what the Social Democrats said before the elections and what the Green Party in the government decided on in predatory policy.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-64	Madam President, I would like In the rural minister's reply there are great similarities with the answers you get to other interpellations from other ministers regardless of the subject. They are about what happened in Sweden during the alliance government, and then a lot happened. It is in itself a good thing that the government is focusing on what the Alliance did, and it would also be good if you did much of what the Alliance did and would like to do. However, it is very little about what the Minister for Rural Development is doing. That is precisely the question that was asked: what is the policy of the Minister for Rural Development? What is the rural minister doing to improve predatory policy? What is the Minister for Rural Development doing to improve rural policy and policy for the whole of Sweden? This is what both Lars Beckman and I asked questions about. I cannot see how tax shocks on diesel cars, truck taxes that increase transport, air taxes that involve closed routes or disagreement in agricultural and forestry policy between the Green Party and the Social Democrats, which delay, among other things, investigations into the Species Protection Regulation and cause quite a lot of trouble, can benefit Sweden. Now the Rural Minister has used one of his interventions to tell us what the Alliance Government did, and he thinks – not surprisingly – that the Alliance Government did not do the right thing. But I am giving the Minister for Rural Development another chance: what has the government done, and what does the Minister intend to do to put these matters in order? So that is not what the Alliance did, and the Minister does not even have to say what the Alliance intends to do. What does the Minister intend to do for the remainder of his term as Minister until the next elections?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-68	Madam President, I would like The 2018 first interpellation debate takes place almost where the 2017 year ended. The Moderates feel strongly squeezed because the S-led government has taken hold of holding Sweden together and launching a policy for the whole country. A rural committee has been set up, which has presented 70 joint proposals. When Lars Beckman makes an interpellation, he does not mention this in one word at all. He mentions in his interpellation a small snout that it should be possible to operate and live and that there should be public service throughout the country, even outside the larger towns. That's good. It will also be possible to build in the beachfront locations, but I will get back to that. Otherwise, the whole interpellation is about hunting for wolf and about game and predator management, and it is there that it emerges how the Moderates suddenly become when the S-led government, just as Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht reported, grabs the parts that have been lacking in order to implement a sustainable predator management that the European Commission believes in and that also those who manage biodiversity believe in. WWF now has confidence in Swedish predatory policy and no longer appeals against the hunting decisions made in Sweden. We have a system that is legally manageable in the courts. This was not the case, just as the Government referred to, when the moderate-led government ruled. At that time, many of these parts were left aside, causing chaos. There are still parts to grab. I do not see that any moderate has lifted up the situation of the Sami people at all. The Sami have predators on their doorstep – predators other than wolves certainly – who also need to have a favourable conservation status and who also need to be handled. I have never heard a moderate lift this up at all, and one can think about why it is. When it comes to beach shelters, we must remember who started the merry-go-round today. In fact, it was the moderate-led government that presented the bill that underpins the situation of construction that we have today and that gives the county boards around the country opportunities. The municipalities were previously able to present a beach protection exemption which they considered possible from the local context, but now legislation has been created that the whole country follows. But Lars Beckman does not take this up very much when he is standing here in the speaker's chair, not really at all, although it is about this initially. It is important that we find out so that it is actually possible to build on where this is appropriate. We must also be aware that we have higher flows in our watercourses. In some of our watercourses around the country it is not suitable to build, but there are many lakes and watercourses in Sweden where it should be easier to build. The Government will present a proposal based on the Rural Committee's proposals, and it remains to be seen what measures we can take to improve the situation.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-76	Madam President, I would like At the end of the debate, I would like to say that I miss the rural minister's answer to whether he thinks it reasonable for the authorities to follow the decisions made by Parliament. With regard to the decision on how many wolves we should have, it is clear that they are not being followed. What is perhaps strange in this debate is that the ministers of the government, when they are in the speaker's seat, continue to blame everything that goes badly on the former alliance government. You can do that, but it's getting strange that you haven't been able to solve things in three years and continue to blame another government because you can't handle things. I agree with the broad discussion, Madam President, and that is why I asked to speak. Of course, the policy as a whole should be assessed. It can then be said that in every budget it has submitted, the government has increased the tax on petrol and diesel. The vehicle tax will be increased from the end of the year and a flight tax will be introduced from 1 April onwards. It is also planned to introduce a kilometre tax before the elections. At least half the government says this should be done before then. If you put all this policy together, Madam President, you can see that it is tax from a distance. I think the CEO of Norrmejerier said it best: these are not environmental taxes, because distance we will always have in Norrland. We could buy in electric trucks, but it would still not be possible to escape the taxes from a distance that the government wants. This is exactly what it is about: punishing people from a distance. That is the theme of all these deteriorations. So I absolutely agree with the Minister for Rural Development that the policy as a whole should be seen. Finally, Madam President, I heard Isak From go up and tell him the way he does about the excellence of the government and that Moderates seem to be afraid because the government is so excellently good, or whatever he now expressed himself – it says well in the Minutes. I just want to say that there are newspapers you can read. In Aftonbladet, with clear left wing, you can read that voters in Sweden are less satisfied with the Prime Minister than the American voters with Donald Trump. This says a lot about what the situation is in Swedish politics.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-82	Madam President, I would like Actually, it doesn't matter what range you have on the wolf population if you don't have order in hunting policy. Three wolves in the last three years of the Alliance – it is clear that the wolf population rose well above 400 wolves. It was because there was no order in this. Since then, we've been in order. During our three years, 83 wolves have been hunted for licences, and the stock has fallen. If you don't have order, you get huge problems, and this is the problem that still lives on in Swedish countryside. We've taken care of this. As I said at the outset, rural conditions are not just about the hunting of wolves. In the hunting area is an important thing that we have also got the order and order of the mountain hunt, where Swedes and locals were forced out because of another regulations that the Alliance put in place. We have now changed this. We have also ensured that agriculture and forestry are not hit so hard by grazing pressure from doovvilt, where we have introduced the possibility of calf hunting. We have also tried to get the extreme feeding of wild boars in place, so that farmers do not lose hundreds of millions of dollars on destroyed crops each year. Unfortunately, this was stopped. We've tried a lot of things, and we've done a lot of things. I think you Moderates paint a very dark picture. It is gloomy twig after the gloomy twig that goes up the speaker's seat. I think we should approach the problems of the countryside with humility. It has been forsook for a long time by many governments of many different colours. It's important that you don't think you're the best. But I would also like to mention diesel taxes. The Alliance government raised the diesel tax twice. The reduction in diesel tax was reduced four times. One of the first measures taken by this government was to increase the diesel tax reduction and improve it from 90 cents to 1.70. Another thing that hit rural areas very hard was the removal of the special travel allowance that existed. I will now talk a little bit about what we have done. One thing concerns the country merchants who have had a dramatic negative development over the last ten years. The number of stores has decreased from around 2,900 stores to 1,200 stores. We have introduced operating aid of 35 million a year. The industry representatives think it's a great measure. They've stopped shop death. Investment aid is doubled. Today we have support for broadband, and we say that everyone in Sweden should have broadband. It's supposed to be 100 percent covers, not 90. We have invested 5.5 billion in this work. We have adopted a food strategy, and I am very pleased that everyone finally supported it – even the Moderates who said no to it for several years. We have set aside SEK 1 billion to create a workshop in this regard. This is a question of jobs in rural Sweden. VAT is now reduced from 25% to 6% on green industries and nature tourism. We are investing 1.2 billion in Sweden as a whole in the 2018 budget. I will come back with even more measures taken by this government to invest in rural areas. This government believes in Swedish countryside.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-92	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for this. I have a personal theory. It's possible it's wrong, but I'll still deliver it. On the issues of rural policy in which the Social Democrats and the Green Party agree, the Social Democrats decide. But on issues where the government disagrees, the Green Party decides. There can be no other explanation. I was also born and raised in Norrbotten, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, and have my family in Överkalix. There can be no other explanation for the declaration of war against rural areas by the Green Party and the Social Democrats. It is not that the Government is unaware of what it means when you shock-raise fuel taxes, diesel taxes and vehicle taxes, reduce road maintenance, turn off street lights and introduce airline taxes. Of course, the Minister for Rural Development is not unaware of the consequences of this. If Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht had been in Järvsö and stopped at Tempo in Vallsta and went in and talked to the small business owner who runs this shop, he could have asked: Why are you selling your shop? Then this small business owner could have told us that the drop was when you doubled employers' contributions for young people. That's what made this store go from plus minus zero to red numbers. Clearly, then, the positive part of the government's policy has not come true, but only the negative one. In previous responses we have been told that predatory policy and the number of wolves have been regionalised. In December, the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg wrote on its website: Granting protection hunting on an entire territory would mean that the protection hunt becomes population regulation, which is not allowed under current legislation. I would like to know how the Minister for Rural Development's claim on regional decisions goes with the decision of the County Administrative Board in Gävleborg.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-96	Madam President, I would like Basically, I think it is good that we are having this debate. It is important that we debate rural conditions. For too long we have not done so, but it has been the urban standard that has prevailed. That is why it is good that we are having this discussion. Undoubtedly, it is needed. During the last parliamentary term, we had many and long debates in this House on mobile coverage. We haven't had that now. I and the Government, who were then a Member, had many debates here with the responsible ministers on mobile coverage. We pushed the bourgeois government so that things actually started to happen. Now we hear almost nothing about this, at least not nearly as many complaints on mobile phone coverage as before. But there are still things to do. There is also much to do about road maintenance. It was absolutely necessary and important for the government to raise the broadband target, so that everyone should have the right to fast broadband. We cannot have it as during the time of the bourgeois government, namely that 10 percent would be without fast broadband – 1 million people outside the big cities would not have fast broadband. It is very important that Ardalan Shekarabi points with the whole hand and says that the authorities should exist throughout the country. It is very important that the authorities have been asked to talk about how they are going to cope with public services throughout the country and how they are going to interact in the country, so that all people actually have access to this important public service. We also need to start building railways that are sustainable and that are an alternative to long-distance lorry transport. There we differ from the Moderates. We are quite clear that we cannot have what we have today with unfair taxation, where we tax Swedish haulage companies. On the other hand, this government has not put forward any proposals on how to do this.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-100	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the Minister for Rural Development tell us about the fantastic policy, which has raised taxes by billions for people who live where distances are great. The tax on petrol, diesel and vehicle taxes is being increased. It also reduces the travel allowance. If the Minister thinks that this is worrying, one might ask why this government continues to reduce the travel allowance for people in rural areas. As I said, you should introduce a flight tax, and you want to introduce a kilometre tax. These are taxes from a distance and not taxes for the sake of the environment. Norrmejerier's CEO said that if the company's trucks were to go on electricity, he would still have to pay these taxes. That is the problem. After these billions in tax increases, the Minister says that 35 million has been invested in rural traders. I'm not saying it's bad. That's great. But they have probably received much higher taxes than these 35 million with the other measures that you have taken. Besides, you're getting worse in the rest of the world. That's what doesn't make sense. You have to see the bigger picture. You can't raise taxes by billions of dollars and then poke back a few million and think you're doing a great job. It won't hold. I still think the Minister should answer. The parliamentary decision is that the wolf population should be between 170 and 270. According to inventory, it's about 400 today. Although the Minister would claim that it is down 360, the stock is still much larger than what the Riksdag has decided. Then my question is: does the Minister think it is right and reasonable that this is the way it is? The Minister has been in charge for three years. Therefore, do not blame the Alliance government. It's just gonna be silly.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-103	Madam President, I would like I understand how hard it is to hear what reality looks like. It is no wonder that there were well over 400 wolves when, for many years, only three were shot. I'm glad Lars Beckman has visited a rural community. There are 139 rural municipalities, and I have visited over 90 so far. My ambition is to visit all 139 before the end of the period. It is important that we are out listening to the people who are there. I myself am a rural resident, and I know how it feels when a business closes. I know what it's like when a school doesn't exist; I'm very well aware of it. I live on a separate road, so I know what that means. However, there are many opportunities in Swedish rural areas, and there are so many positive forces there that we must seize. It is therefore important that we listen to people and put different policies right. One policy area where it was absolutely necessary to put things right is the great predatory policy and the mess that existed within it. We made it right. There should be order in that policy. However, there are many other areas. In my last post, I touched on the investment we are now making of 1.2 billion, an All-Sweden initiative. It's about green jobs, service centers and county centers. It is also about support for the green industries, which is special aid that is important not least for Norrland. The Government has also allocated 1.5 billion in the budgets for 2019 and 2020 for a coherent rural policy. We have moved out government jobs, which under another government – I don't need to mention it, because you know which – moved into Stockholm from the countryside. Now we're relocating. We see the whole country. This government stands up for Sweden's countryside. Thank you for the debate.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-109	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I intend to add more resources to customs before the end of the term of office and whether I intend to review whether it would be possible at Sweden's ports and border crossing points to set up log equipment capable of detecting jammers. Yes, I intend to add more resources to the Customs Agency before the end of the term of office. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government has proposed a permanent increase of SEK 185 million to the Swedish Customs Agency. This is a sharp increase over the next four years and represents just over 10% compared to the current level of funding. The resources shall be used to increase customs controls at borders. As regards the issue of jammers, I see no obstacle to setting up detection equipment to detect jammers, but which equipment is most appropriate and efficient should be decided by the relevant authorities themselves.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-112	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. For a relatively short time, Sweden has become a paradise for foreign theft leagues. There is a low risk of getting caught, and if you get caught, there is very low penalties in Sweden. Combined with an almost non-existent border control, this has created a paradise for foreign organized theft leagues. They are pilgrimages to Sweden from other countries of the European Union, precisely because of the criteria I described. This negative trend almost exploded in 2017. Trucks and containers are thus filled with boat engines, lawn mowers, car parts and cars. All of this rolls out of Sweden through our border crossings and through our ports. Even large construction machines are being driven out. Customs knows when something is not likely to be completely okay, but they do not have the authority to intervene against large vehicles that roll on the boats out of Sweden. As I said, Customs sees exactly what is happening, Madam President, but it does not have the power to intervene. According to a recent police report, foreign gangs are responsible for about half of all burglary. Theft goods for billions are being taken out of our country. Those affected are ordinary people – hardworking people – all over Sweden. They come home to homes that are drained of everything of value, and it is largely the burglary leagues that are behind this. Insurance companies are forced to shock-raise the premiums in order to deal with this, for all the money the insurance companies pay out, they are going to take in on everyone's premiums. I met an insurance company which, for example, in the area of boat insurance, is likely to have to double its premiums after 2017 because the number of thefts of mainly boat engines increased so dramatically last year. These are stolen goods for thousands of millions of dollars, and it is we who pay the bill through increased insurance premiums. We must break this trend in Sweden. It can't be a paradise for the foreign theft leagues. It cannot be that Sweden is the favorite destination when people are thinking about where to commit crime. We need more and better paid police officers, and we need a new management for the police. We need to remove today's quantity rebate for those convicted of repeated crimes – today you get more discounts the more crimes you commit. Criminals from other EU countries should also not serve their sentences in Sweden; it is actually the responsibility of the other EU countries to take care of their own criminals, not Sweden. Customs must also be given increased powers so that it can actually intervene as it wishes. It is within the government's ability to actually implement this. We need to get a sharper border control so that these things do not get out of the country. Madam President, I would like Why has the Minister not already given customs the increased powers required to intervene? I was provoked when I, together with a party colleague of the Minister, first became aware that it works in this way. Customs officials cannot intervene, and when the police are busy – as they often are – the stolen goods roll out of the country despite seeing what is in the containers. It's not okay.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-120	Madam President, I would like The fact that international criminal gangs commit theft crimes in Sweden – that they go on theft tours in Sweden – is totally unacceptable. Society must, of course, show strength against these phenomena. My assessment is that this must be done through much better cooperation between the responsible authorities than is currently the case. Of course, we shall also ensure that the authorities have the resources to deal seriously with this crime. Therefore, the government has worked on several different levels. We ensure that authorities have the necessary resources – we have significantly increased the resources for the police in the coming years, more than the police requested. In addition, we have made a historic effort at the Swedish Customs Agency to secure the borders of the country. However, it is not enough to work with the individual authorities, but we also need to work more across the board. That is why the responsible authorities will have a task to review how they can work together better to get to grips with these particular leagues. This is an issue that has also been highlighted by the Prime Minister, and he has made it clear that we need better cooperation between the authorities. We will, of course, use all the tools in the bureaucracy's toolbox to stop these theft leagues.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-123	Madam President, I would like I share the Minister's view that we should, of course, face this with the strength of society as a whole. I do not think there is any difference between any parties in this House as to what should be achieved. Rather, the question is what you are prepared to do. Madam President, I would like I asked you a specific question. Customs wants increased powers so that you can stop and intervene. It's perfectly possible to do. The government has been aware of these things for a very long time, and yet it has not taken hold of them. It makes no sense to me. I do not blame the government for the development, because it is obviously not the government's fault that Europe's collected theft leagues pilgrimage to Sweden. However, it is within the government's ability to actually contribute to a solution. It is at least a year since I found out what increased powers customs wanted to have in order to overcome this, and my idea is why the government does not want to implement it. Perhaps there is a good reason for this, and if so, the Minister will be happy to tell you about it. In my previous post I tried to describe the development and how Sweden has become such a paradise. There is an opportunity to stop this. Many people put trackers in cars and boat engines to make it easier to follow where the stolen goods are going. It is good when individuals take increased responsibility to help the police find the stolen goods. The problem is that the leagues are specialized and have jammers in their trucks. Then trackers do not work in, for example, boat engines. However, there are equipment that the Swedish Defence Research Institute has developed here in Sweden. It is relatively simple, and you could have it at every border crossing and every port. You can then see when a jammer comes; it is not legal for ordinary people to have that kind of equipment. Then it would be easy to detect trucks coming out of the country with hundreds of boat engines. Madam President, I would like I do not understand why the government does not demand that all possible equipment be installed to get hold of the stolen goods. But the Minister may have an answer to that. It is unreasonable that this development should continue. It is good that the Minister seems to be involved. But the questions remain. Why does it not give customs more powers? They've asked for it. And then it would be possible to do something for real. Why do they not tell the authorities to use all the technical equipment needed to deal with this? Much of the goods coming out of the country could be stopped.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-132	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I was thinking about one more thing. The Minister tells us that cooperation between our authorities needs to be stepped up in order for us to get to grips with this. It's obvious. And the obvious question then is: When will we have this in place? We know what needs to be done. But neither enough money nor directives have been in place to the full. When will those words come to fruition, so that cooperation really takes place and that the stolen goods can be stopped at the border? When I have spoken to insurance companies and others, another concern has arisen. Even when it is possible to trace the stolen goods to our neighbouring countries or the place where our machines – tractors, quadricycles and everything else that is included in the containers and chapel cars – have been transported, so that we know where they are, the contact between the Swedish authorities and the respective national authorities is so bad that you cannot return the stolen goods to Sweden. As a result, insurance companies and those who have been robbed of tools or machines find it difficult to get their money out before it is regulated and clear.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-136	Madam President, I would like The government has requested the authorities to provide a list of measures by February of this year to ensure that they work more effectively, that priority is given to the work against theft leagues but also that they cooperate better than they do today. There is also the possibility for the authorities to submit requests to the government for measures that they feel they cannot carry out themselves, but where they want changes from the government in terms of legislative or regulatory changes. Nothing has come in to the Ministry of Finance from the Swedish Customs Department that they wish to increase their powers in the field of stolen goods. But I am prepared to listen to it if it is judged to be an effective measure. It is extremely important that we use tax money in the most effective way. That is why we have the order that it is the authorities, who sit on the expertise, who should give priority to how the resources should be used in the best way. That is why we leave it to the authorities to assess which technical equipment is best used to combat the crime they are set to combat. There are great opportunities for authorities to cooperate more. You can really make a difference there. We saw this after the mission to a number of authorities, which I initiated, when it came to stopping the liquor buses that previously rolled into Sweden with thousands of litres of alcohol sold to restaurants and our young people. The interaction between the police and customs, among others, but also other authorities, has led to a complete disruption of the liquor buses in practice. It's not a profitable business anymore. It is therefore possible to make a difference when action is actually taken and cooperation is ensured. We also want to see this when it comes to combating international theft leagues.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-141	Madam President, I would like The Minister is talking about coordinating authorities. That is absolutely part of the solution. However, the Minister has parliamentary colleagues who have met with me with insurance companies, various associations and representatives from customs to find out more. And the customs officials we have met feel turned down because they do not have the authority to intervene. I think that's serious. When people are subjected to burglary and what they had of value are about to be transported out of the country, customs officials often know that the stolen goods are on their way out– it is perhaps fortunate that people in general do not know how to do it. At best, customs officials can find police officers who come there so that they can intervene. But normally the goods leave the country. There are opportunities, and I hope that the government will take the initiative to use them soon. The year 2017 was not a good year. The development has exploded. And all the stolen goods, worth billions of dollars, that are taken out of the country, as I said, we pay together through higher insurance premiums. The check will be with all of us. In addition, there are technical equipment that can prevent a great deal of this, such as detectors for jammers, etc. Let's use all the equipment available to fight the theft leagues! Give customs and police the powers and resources they need! I hope that the Minister will be part of the solution to this. There are ready-made proposals that can be implemented.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-147	Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, I asked the Minister what they were going to do to bring back the machines that could be traced back to our neighbours. In this way, the financial losses incurred by insurance companies or private individuals could be recovered. What measures will be taken to ensure better contact with the authorities between the countries so that it can really work? Today it works so badly that we do not get the machines back even if we can track them. Then we'll make the loss no matter what. This shows that we need to get even better at stopping the machines before they get out of the country, just as Edward Riedl has mentioned. It is extremely difficult to get them back, even if we can trace them after they have left the country. I would like some sort of comment from the Minister on how to strengthen contact between the authorities in order to try to solve the crime that can be solved, given that it is possible to trace the machines.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-150	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden had a very important question of cooperation between police authorities. I assume that it will then be the Police Authority that will cooperate with the police authorities in other countries. I will take that question with me to the Minister of Justice, who is the one who controls the police's cooperation with the police authorities in other countries. This is, of course, a matter of great urgency. With regard to the issue of jammers and powers, it is our assessment that there are customs powers to use jammer detection if one considers it to be an effective technical tool to work with. Then you have the opportunity to do so. If Customs encounters suspected stolen goods, you can contact the police. Then it is asked: Will the police come? We have checked, and we have received no information from customs that it is a widespread problem that the police do not come when customs requests police assistance on such occasions. Of course, it is generally important that the police have more resources than they have today. That is why the government has made a very large-scale effort on the police in this budget. We have invested in increased resources for the police in the last three budgets. In the last budget we have made a very comprehensive list of resources to the police. They can go to more police officers and also to better working conditions. Edward Riedl talked about resources for customs. It is extremely important that customs also have resources. Here we have made a historic effort. It is good that the Moderates have a small newly awakened interest in customs. On the contrary, just over a year ago, the Moderates wanted to cut customs resources. In fact, the year in which the state budget was influenced, in 2014, a cut was made. When the Moderates have influence, you cut into customs resources. In opposition they want to provide more resources. Then the conclusion is: For customs, it is best when the Moderates are in opposition.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-156	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if I believe that the proposal for the amended investment rules for the AP Funds is in line with the Paris Agreement and Swedish environmental and climate objectives, and whether I intend to work to ensure that the investments of the AP Funds live up to the Paris Agreement and do not contribute to climate-damaging activities. Furthermore, Jens Holm wonders if I intend to take any other measures to make the Swedish financial sector as a whole fossil-free. Yes, I believe that the proposal for amended rules for the First – Fourth AP Fund is in line with the Paris Agreement, Agenda 2030 and Swedish environmental and climate objectives when the funds are to be based on a common foundation of values based on the international conventions that Sweden has signed. This will strengthen and clarify the regulatory framework for the sustainability of the Funds. The fact that the funds in their management should attach importance to sustainability is written into the legislation for the first time and the link to the Swedish environmental objectives and international agreements is clarified. My hope is that this proposal can contribute to reducing the environmental and climate impact of the AP funds' portfolios and thus contribute to the required transition to a fossil-free society. AP funds are governed by the Act on General Pension Funds, AP Funds, and the Government cannot and must not therefore have views on individual investment or management decisions taken by the AP Funds. The government takes several initiatives to achieve a fossil-free financial sector where access to accurate and comparable information is an important starting point. One example is accounting for the carbon footprint of investment portfolios where measurements and methods may differ. After the government initiated a dialogue with the industry, there are now standards for carbon footprint accounting for the Swedish fund and insurance industry, as well as for the AP funds. As of 1 January 2018, a legal requirement is introduced for Swedish investment funds and UCITS to provide information on how they take sustainability considerations into account in their management, including the environment and climate. If a manager does not take sustainability into account, this must also be clearly stated. In addition, the Pensions Group has agreed that only funds that take sustainability into account in the management should have access to the fund's fund square, a proposal that is now being consulted. The Government will also analyse proposals on how the green bond market can be promoted and set up an investigation to analyse how green savings can be designed.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-163	Madam President, I would like If we are to prevent an escalating and directly dangerous climate change, most of the world's fossil reserves must remain in the ground. Therefore, it is incredibly important where future investment flows go. This applies if we invest in renewable energy and in other activities that shift to sustainable development or if we continue to invest a large part of our investments in what aggravates climate change. At a seminar here in Stockholm on 15 May last year on climate finance, Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund said: If the financial sector does not make investments in line with the Paris Agreement and the UN's sustainability goals, it will be impossible to achieve the goals. That's exactly how I think it is, too. We simply need to ensure that future investments do not fatten what may devastate our planet. When I and several others have studied where our pension capital in the form of AP funds is located, it turns out that a significant part is located in fossil activities. Greenpeace's review last year notes that a total of SEK 13 billion – SEK 1,300 per Swedish – is located in 43 of the world's 100 worst emission companies. These are companies such as Gazprom, Lukoil, Exxon Mobil, Shell, BP, Chevron, O ccidental, German coal mining and others. We can't go on like this. Our pension funds are large funds, among the world's largest asset managers. It is therefore gratifying that Article 2 of the Paris Agreement states precisely that financial flows must be compatible with climate sustainable development. It is we, the politicians of each Member State, who are going to make it happen. I asked Per Bolund a specific question in my interpellation. This concerned the proposal for new investment rules for the AP funds. It was presented in the form of a memorandum in July last year. Does the Minister think that this proposal will lead to more sustainable investments and the exclusion of fossil activities? Minister of Finance Per Bolund replied that he considered this to be the case. Then I wonder: When will the proposal be submitted to Parliament? We're talking about a memo, not a bill. I also wonder: how can the Minister for Finance say that this is in line with the demands of the Paris Agreement and other international agreements when the Paris Agreement is not even mentioned in the memorandum condemned by the environmental movement? There is not a single concrete proposal that the AP funds must deinvest and move away from fossil fuels. I would also like to ask the Minister for Financial Markets: since the proposal has not yet been tabled, should there not be opportunities to make some improvements to the proposal?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-171	Madam President, I would like First of all, I will give a few brief answers to the concrete questions that Jens Holm is now asking in the debate. We are keen to move forward with the changes to the pension system and the AP funds as quickly as possible. Right now there is a consultation session, and then the proposal is to be placed on the table of the Riksdag. After all, the Swedish pension system is governed by the Pensions Group, which comprises six of the eight parties in the Riksdag. The proposals are anchored there, so we know that there is a stable majority to implement these changes. It will therefore be done immediately. The fact that Paris is not specifically mentioned, I do not think it is necessary to hang on to it. What we are saying is that international conventions in general are what should guide investment. There, of course, the Paris Agreement is an incredibly central agreement, but it is not the only one. For example, there are also Agenda 2030, the global sustainability goals, several agreements and conventions on human rights and the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We also hope that further international conventions will be ratified by Sweden. These will also govern, for example, the AP funds and many other social activities. I do not agree that this proposal has been condemned by the environmental movement, as Jens Holm says a little bit in a routine way. I know that many in the environmental movement see this as a big step forward, as it is. This is a big change in how we manage Swedish pension capital. It takes a big step forward to get this in line with the sustainability goals that Sweden has both stated here in the Riksdag and supported internationally. These were some clarifications. With regard to the figures raised by Jens Holm, one can discuss what is a significant part of the capital. It is worth noting that 13 billion sounds like a very large sum. We can agree that EUR 13 billion in environmentally damaging activities is too much, but it is, after all, a major decline compared to what it was just a few years ago. This corresponds to approximately 1 per cent of the capital covered by the AP funds, i.e. one hundredth. It is clear that our ultimate goal is for society as a whole to be fossil-free, and that also applies to pension money. I think we agree on that. Then I think that a fall from a high level to 1% is a very concrete and clear first step. It is also important to remember that AP funds' wealth is managed through many different methods. It has a fairly broad portfolio to manage capital safely and ensure that capital is available when we retire. Some of this is about index management, i.e. managing according to global indices. Today, the global indices also include fossil companies, and that is where almost all the 13 billion are located. The AP funds have therefore not chosen to put the money into these companies through active investments, but because they use a cost-effective management model with index management. The index administration is now being reviewed, and it is being redoed and rebooted internationally. Both private and public initiatives are now starting to come up with alternatives with sustainable indices in which they have an index management system that also ensures that they do not invest in fossil-heavy companies. This is a process that needs to take time, and these indices need to be developed. There is a need to ensure that they are on the market and are not unduly cost-driven. I know this is a job that the AP funds are in the middle of doing. Even the small remnant that remains is now being done step by step. In Jens Holm's rhetoric it sometimes sounds like nothing happens and that we stand still and stutter. It is important to point out that this is not the case. Even before the new legislation, which will be even stricter and where we say for the first time in the legal text that AP funds should work for sustainability, the carbon intensity of Swedish pension management has actually decreased radically. Within the Third AP Fund, this is about 40 percent only during this term of office. The absolute footprint is 25% reduction. So a reduction is already taking place, and it will go even faster in the future.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-185	Madam President, I would like I would like to respond to a number of things. I do not really like the way in which the Minister for Financial Markets responds to the figure of SEK 13 billion. It feels like the minister trivializes the figure a little bit. These are significant sums of money that go to fossil fuels, and this was just one example. The World Wildlife Fund carried out a similar review of the AP funds a couple of years ago. At that time it was noted that the AP funds have tied capital in fossil fuel operations corresponding to ten times Sweden's annual emissions. Through the parliamentary investigation service, I myself have tried to review AP funds' investments – which is not really easy if you want to carry out a serious review – and compare them with investments in renewables. The investigation service then found that renewable investments are often so small that it is difficult to quantify them. In the case of the First – Fourth AP Fund, well below 1 per cent of the total capital is invested in renewable energy. I know that there is a problem in the definition of what is renewable and what is not. Even fossil companies can invest in renewables. But it is still a very small part of the total investment portfolio. I do not understand how the Minister for the Financial Market may feel that the memorandum presented by the government and the bourgeois parties this summer is in line with the demands of the Paris Agreement in Article 2 on financial flows. Then the memo should at least have taken a stand in the Paris Agreement. It's not done. The Paris Agreement is not mentioned in a single word throughout the long text. There is also no concrete strategy for how the AP funds are today to phase out their fossil holdings, but each fund manager is free to make such an assessment and make such decisions. This is about our common means, and we could put our foot down and say that fossils should be excluded. Other countries are acting much more forcefully in this area than we in Sweden are doing today. Just a little while ago, news came that New York City is phasing out all its fossil holdings. In addition, a number of large oil companies are being sued. The Norwegian Oil Fund has upgraded its investment policy and has now also been commissioned by the Norwegian Central Bank to phase out fossil fuels. Interesting decisions are made in both the United Kingdom and Ireland as regards their pension money and phasing out fossil fuels. I think it feels like we in Sweden are stomping. You, Per Bolund, Isabella Lövin and a number of other ministers say good things, but concrete assignments to the AP funds to phase out the fossil holding will not actually come. And it will not happen through this memorandum either. Redo and do the right thing!
i-c01eb52f284653f5-194	Madam President, I would like It's amazing that Jens Holm can see into the future through a spåkula and knows exactly what's going to happen. He already knows that he has sufficient knowledge to condemn the whole proposal. We can see that there is already an improvement today. Sweden is not at all bad in relation to other countries, contrary to what Jens Holm is trying to sound suggestive here. In the regular reviews carried out by the industry, Sweden stands out as a country that has really gone ahead and continues to go ahead. An example among many is something called Asset Owners Disclosure Project. There you rank different private and public pension funds and other investment funds. The 2017 study clearly states that Sweden is number one, which is best in the world. This is the case with existing legislation, and now we are taking steps to further strengthen efforts to increase the sustainability of fund management. We will ensure that the AP Funds, like all other sectors of society, act in such a way that we achieve the goals that we have set ourselves both nationally through the Swedish environmental objectives and internationally through the conventions that Sweden has to comply with and that we have undertaken. I find it troubling when you try to paint us like someone standing and stomping or something like that. If Jens Holm tries to look at investments in the Norwegian oil fund, he would see that there are quite a lot of fossil investments left there. This is about proposals that have not even been clubbed yet. Where it lands, we'll see. It is clear, however, that through the regulations and legislation that we have today, it is the parliament and the government that are setting the framework for investment by the AP funds. We do not control individual investments. I think that this system is good and that we should have it this way. We are now setting a much stricter framework, and we are clearly saying that we will comply with the conventions that Sweden has signed, such as the Paris Agreement, but also many others. If we choose another way forward, there would be two different problems. It would take a very long time to gather a majority in the Swedish parliament that would lead to a change in a new framework and a new regulatory framework that would govern the AP funds. During that time, nothing would happen at all. That would be a big mistake, I think. We are now taking comprehensive measures to improve the existing system. That would also give us quite a lot of problems. The climate area is a clear area, but it is hardly the only area where we have a problematic environmental or sustainability situation overall. There are many others. Agenda 2030 covers 17 different objectives. Does Jens Holm want us to legislate on each of these 17 different objectives and regulate exactly what you get and cannot invest in? I think that would be a rather time-consuming and ineffective way of managing activities. I believe in setting clear frames. The conventions that Sweden has endorsed, such as the 17 objectives of Agenda 2030, have our public managers to ensure that we accompany. This also applies to the AP funds. But then we will hand over the concrete implementation to those who sit with the day-to-day activities and expertise. Let us not waver – the goal is extremely clear. And it becomes even clearer in the regulatory framework that we are now pushing through in the Swedish Parliament. We expect Swedish pension management and asset management to ensure that the objectives that Sweden has endorsed internationally are respected. It includes the Paris Agreement and the Paris Convention. We shall have a sustainable climate in the future. There is no doubt about it at all. I think it is counterproductive if Jens Holm tries to bring in uncertainty about this, because the clarity of the memorandum we are presenting is very strong. Development work and improvement work are ongoing, including within the AP funds, which is something that I welcome. It is important to try to influence by divesting, which in fact the AP funds have done to quite a large extent, but also to try to influence within existing companies, so that they control the companies that are currently fossil-heavy towards a renewable future. This is an important task for Swedish pension managers.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-206	Madam President, I would like I think it's amazing that in just a few years, the movement of divestination has grown into a global movement and one of the most powerful expressions that exist because we must seriously change and get rid of fossil holdings. I think like this, Per Bolund: why do people go to international summits, adopt decisions and adopt agreements, such as the Paris Agreement? Well, the whole idea must be that decisions should then be implemented in each country. Now that Article 2 of the Paris Agreement states that financial flows should be compatible with climate sustainable development, I believe that it is precisely such wording that we should use in the policies we are pursuing. Thankfully, no sharp proposal has yet been made to Parliament, but I do not understand how you, in the government and in the bourgeois parties, can produce such a memorandum and a text like this without even mentioning the Paris Agreement and without even taking advantage of Article 2(1)(c), which relates to the financial flows. That would have been what would have made these new rules sharp in earnest. I have great confidence in our investors within our AP funds, but I also believe that they are valiant of clearer rules of play. If you had given them an assignment to phase out the fossil holding and switch to sustainable investments, they would of course have done so. With this proposal, there is no such specific mission, and I regret that.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-210	Madam President, I would like I think that there is reason to see the very big steps that we are now taking forward in order to make Swedish pension capital much more sustainable. It is a radical change that is now taking place in the Swedish parliament and that would not have happened if we had not had a strong driving force for sustainability to be a guiding principle for how we should manage Swedish capital. We think it is obvious that Swedish fund managers, like all other parts of society, should be part of the solution to the sustainability problems we have. Therefore, for the first time, we are going to write into law that the sustainability goals should guide AP funds' operations. We have also written into decisions taken by the Riksdag that the whole financial market should have the goal of contributing to sustainable development. This also happens for the first time. This government has been extremely proactive in creating a greener and more sustainable financial market, far more than any previous government has ever been near. What is now happening in private but also in public capital management is something of a revolution. We feel extremely confident that the reference we have to international conventions cannot be misunderstood for our pension managers. Everyone knows that the Paris Agreement is a convention that Sweden has endorsed and which should guide our fund managers, as well as other actors in our society. In addition, the First – Fourth AP Fund and the Seventh AP Fund have signed the five-year Climate Action 100+ climate initiative, which says that they should work in line with the Paris Agreement, so that conviction and knowledge are already in place. Now we are further strengthening the incentives. We now make it clear from a political point of view that we expect our fund managers to ensure that the agreements and conventions that Sweden signs are also indicative of how to make their investments. I think that Jens Holm should be pleased and welcome this, rather than stand on the barricades and point to some sort of extreme preconception that would be the best possible. Let us work to make the system we have as good as we can!
i-8eHXWY3bneu4UeFhFnmmV2	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Magnusson has asked five questions relating to the announcements on film policy that the Riksdag addressed to the Government in connection with decisions on the Government's proposal More film for more – a coherent film policy (prop. 2015/ 2016: 132). First of all, Cecilia Magnusson has asked me when I intend to take steps to ensure that Swedish films can receive sustainable funding that restores the 6% cinema VAT. Film policy today has sustainable, stable and long-term funding. The financing model has been decided by the Swedish parliament, and it is solid. The Government intends to carry out a broad evaluation of the new film policy when the consequences of its introduction can be assessed. Secondly, Cecilia Magnusson has asked me how I intend to act to satisfy Parliament's announcement of a broad parliamentary film investigation. When the Riksdag announced in 2016 that the government should set up a broad parliamentary film investigation, the government, both the current and the former, had recently devoted at least two years to thoroughly analysing film policy. Various financing solutions have also been examined several times in recent years. To expose the film industry to further delays and more time of waiting and uncertainty would not have been responsible. What was needed was long-termness, stability and peace of mind. Now the new film policy has been in place for a year. The Film Institute has recently decided on changes to support systems after dialogue with the industry. They took effect 16 days ago. The Government and the Film Institute continuously monitor developments and consider adjustments if necessary. The new film policy will be evaluated in line with Parliament's announcement when sufficient time has elapsed for an evaluation to be meaningful. The government intends to come back to this issue. Thirdly, Cecilia Magnusson has asked me how I intend to act in order to respond to Parliament's announcement of the continued work on prosecuting the illegal circulation of films. As previously announced by the Government (the Government's letter 2016/ 17:75) the notice is deemed to have been finalised. The Government has allocated SEK 80 million to the Swedish Patent and Registration Office (PRV) in order to strengthen, among other things, the guiding and knowledge-sharing role of PRV as well as the development of knowledge in the area of intangible assets, innovation and economic growth. The assignment includes mapping copyright infringements in the digital environment and raising public awareness in order to reduce infringements and increase interest in legal distribution services. In addition to this, PRV has received a complementary information assignment to investigate various actions that can facilitate consumers and other users to legally access accessible material such as film, books and music with the consent of rightholders. PRV has recently announced that it will launch a website for legal alternatives as part of the work. Within the framework of the round tables that I have initiated, we have recently had follow-up discussions on how each actor has worked further. Unfortunately, the film industry chose to stay out of this work by not signing the code of conduct drawn up during the talks. Fourthly, Cecilia Magnusson has asked me how I intend to act to satisfy Parliament's announcement to work towards further digitisation of the film heritage and to ensure that the Swedish film heritage is preserved and made available. As reported in the 2018 Budget Bill, the announcement by the Government is deemed to have been finalised. Already from 2017, the funds for digitising, preserving and making film heritage available were strengthened by SEK 2.5 million. As of 2018, SEK 5 million will be added and an additional SEK 10 million will be added as of 2019. This means that the government both strengthens and permanentizes the time-limited efforts of the previous government. Fifthly, Cecilia Magnusson has asked me how I intend to act to satisfy Parliament's announcement that the role and future organisational form of the Swedish Film Institute Foundation should be investigated as soon as possible. The Swedish Film Institute Foundation is an institution that has worked under a high load for a long time. A period of peace of mind is needed in order to implement a reform of this size. The Government has already announced its intention to launch a follow-up study of the analysis carried out by Statskontoret in 2013. In order for such a study to be fruitful and manageable, it should take place when the Film Institute's implementation of the new film policy has gone further than today. The government intends to return to the issue during its term of office.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-224	Madam President, I would like It is here in Parliament that we thank you for the answer, so I am opening this debate by thanking the Minister for Culture for the answer, although it is not much of a response or a lot to thank for. I've asked you five important questions about the future of the film. The Government has chosen to compile an answer in a minimalist style. I have begun to wonder what the Minister's view of democracy looks like. Nevertheless, the Minister for Culture is also Minister for Democracy, in addition to being Minister for Culture. The lack of answers to my questions may lead to the question of how the Minister views the government versus the Riksdag. The Parliament is the country's highest decision-making body, and its members are elected representatives of the people. When the Riksdag decides, the Government shall comply with these decisions. What was decided during the discussion of KrU11:2015/ 16 is a parliamentary decision to be followed up. That is why I refer to these announcements in various debates. I want to hear what is happening on the various issues and discuss it because it is so important for the future. I must say, as a small disappointment, that I was a little bothered when I saw the minister's public Instagram account in a conversation three days ago. There she says: Unfortunately, it is the parliament and not the government that must make decisions. That is how it is regulated, and the Minister must comply. One of the questions I asked was about the bio-VAT and the funding. The 25% VAT has broken out of the film from culture. Today, the film is equated with kale, which also has 25% VAT and not with the other cultural forms opera, dance, theatre, literature and all other cultural forms with 6% VAT. I find that unworthy. Moreover, the increase in prices is serious as it threatens the future of cinemas. Film's the best at the movies. I think so. I saw myself a few days ago about the film My Dad Toni Erdmann on SVT, who showed it. It made itself much better and was a greater experience for me when it went to the movies. There is so much to say about how the Minister of Culture handled the cultural heritage of cinemas. They exist all over the country and are run by non-profit forces or otherwise by individual traders. In addition, the government has not contributed as much money to compensate for this increase in the prices of cinemas. Please, Minister Bah Kuhnke, give us better information about the future of the film!
i-AjzjWccYD2jzE3RsmGptXE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson, for the continued discussion! As Minister of Culture and Democracy and as part of the Swedish Government, I am not here to be kind but to conduct politics and bring about the changes for Swedish culture with Swedish cultural policy that we believe is needed. More culture for more is our motto. I understand that Cecilia Magnusson has spent time studying my Instagram account, and I am pleased. However, if you study the Instagram account carefully and read what it says, it is clear that the reference that Cecilia Magnusson made is not at all about film politics but about ILO 169, if I remember. It's about indigenous rights. This is something that I think Cecilia Magnusson and the Moderates should study carefully and hopefully approve when such a decision finally and hopefully soon comes on the table of the Riksdag. When it comes to fulfilling Parliament's announcements, it is also the case, if I am not mistaken, that it took on average three years for the previous government to respond to announcements. Sometimes it was a little shorter time and sometimes slightly longer. I intend to respond to Parliament's announcements and, hopefully, usually within a shorter period of time. Back to film policy and the changes we have now made. The previous policy and the previous film agreement existed for decades. After 50 years, the last years were filled with criticism, frustration and the fact that those who sat around the table to decide on film policy left the table and, moreover, did not stand up for what they had decided. We listened to the industry after several years of analysis and discussion. That is why we took the courageous step of redoing film policy and ensuring that film policy, like any other cultural policy, is to be decided by the Swedish Parliament. Film policy should not be sidelined and managed primarily by men with power and their own interests, but should be part of film policy. We politicians should be held accountable for it and invest in Swedish film, and citizens should be able to see if we do not do it or if we do. If there is anything I can say with great pleasure, it is that we invest in Swedish film, and that with a message. We invest not least in Swedish films for our entire country. We even have ears marked special funds – a total of SEK 25 million – just for cinemas in the countryside so that they can remain, develop and go through the technical shift that is going on to meet the audience there. We know that we Swedes want to see Swedish film. Swedish film is very popular. That is why we have invested in film policy, and the government has prioritised allocating hundreds of millions of SEK to Swedish film to support production in various ways. But it's also about doing it all over again with the industry councils that are now working, where it is no longer these few people around a table in a closed room that make decisions but where it is people from different parts of the film industry who are involved in influencing. It would be naive to think that such a big shift would be easy and that it would happen without protest. I therefore welcome all the discussion, and I listen carefully to know whether we need to take further action.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-241	Madam President, I would like No, you're not supposed to be nice. But you can be kind and answer questions; that's what I meant. More culture for more people, they say. Watch the Stockholm Film Festival a while ago, when several cinemas refused to open their premises in protest against the actions of the Minister for Culture against the cinemas! Your quote was not about film politics. It was about how you looked at the government versus the parliament. As far as the question of nuclear weapons is concerned, you do not even agree within the government in this part. We'll see how far it gets. With regard to my questions, to which I would like answers, the Minister says that when the consequences can be seen, film policy should be evaluated. It is clear that the government will evaluate its own policy! And the Riksdag will follow up that the government is doing what it is supposed to do. But it's not the same as an investigation. An investigation looks at an issue and also makes suggestions. An investigation is therefore a completely different matter from an evaluation. The Minister for Culture should learn to distinguish between this. Today we see the consequences – everyone's war against everyone prevails. The Minister takes no responsibility. The baby has been thrown out with the bath water. The current film agreement was flawed. That is why, in the fruitless meetings that preceded the bill, we proposed that we extend the film agreement and investigate the matter. Even the industry came forward and said: We can set up a modified film agreement while the future of the film is being investigated. But the government ignored this irresponsibly, especially with regard to the future of cinemas – cinemas, which are important cultural beacons also in rural areas. I would like to see what happens to the money that has been made available and earmarked. They're not enough. They should be used for ten different things. Is the Minister prepared or not to give more money to the preservation of cinemas and to develop their activities? It is needed; it says all parties. With regard to the fight against the illegal circulation of films, which is said to have already been covered, the Minister for Culture believes that the film industry has been left out of work. But how is the phase to be able to interact and counteract the illegal dissemination of films if the industry is not involved? It's supposed to be a collaboration. Was it not a cooperative government of which Minister Bah Kuhnke is a member? This cannot be considered to be fulfilled unless the industry is in favour of it. Film heritage is extremely important. If we can get much more done and if the Film Institute and the Royal Library can cooperate in a much better way, there can be more workshop in this area as well. We intend to follow it very closely. I hope that the Minister will address the Film Institute in his speech.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-249	Madam President, I would like All of us who care about the Swedish Parliament and the order we have, I hope, will also take care of their language in this House. Having said that, I would like to stress the importance of engaging in dialogue with the various parties that influence, influence and in different ways participate in Swedish film. The major shift we have made means that there is now finally stability. The film industry is no longer dependent on how many people went to the cinema two years earlier to know how much money is available for Swedish films. On the contrary, the industry can rely on stability and a long-term perspective because we have changed film policy and the government takes responsibility for funding. It is absolutely crucial if we are to have a viable film production in our country. That is also why Minister of Economic Affairs Damberg and I commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to develop a study and to investigate how to introduce incentives in Sweden. This is a model that exists in several countries but not yet in Sweden. I received the report together with Mrs Damberg on 19 December. It is called More film recordings to Sweden. This is another tool we are prepared to review in order to create in different ways the best conditions for film and for all the industries that would be affected if, for example, large film productions come to our country. It's about the restaurant business, the hotel business and many more. Film is a cultural expression, but film is also a nourishment. Film is an industry. That is precisely why it is so urgent to follow developments very closely – something that I have been clear about throughout the process since I took office as Minister of Culture and since I made the courageous decision to do it again, to do it again and to do it right. Cecilia Magnusson readily admits that the old film agreement had major flaws, but she also admits that she wanted to extend it. You can continue to lead if you do not have the courage to do new things. When you do new things, when you shake and, above all, when you distribute power, Madam President, there are often conflicts. We can see this now in the Metoo calls, and we can see it through our Swedish history. This is also true of film, film production and who has the power to decide what is done and who makes money from film and who doesn't. There will continue to be many discussions and much dialogue. I will continue to prioritise going around the country, meeting the different film companies and visiting the different centres where people meet. I will talk to everyone from actors to makeup artists to ensure that when the government says that we want to see more culture to more and that we want to create the conditions for more Swedish film, we will also add the funds and tools needed.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-255	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Culture's memory is short. I asked her to bring up the Swedish Film Institute. She forgot. But she also forgot that one of the announcements in KrU11 was specifically about producing proposals for film incentives. The Minister for Culture did not want to mention this in his proposal, but the Parliament forced the government to make proposals to introduce a production incentive by means of an announcement. Right should be right! If the Minister for Culture had done the right thing from the start, we would already have had production incentives in Sweden today – for the benefit of Swedish film. The Film Institute is an old remnant from the culture minister's hateful film agreements. It was created to manage the film deal. But the government has no intention of removing the Film Institute now that the film agreement is gone. Of course they work really hard because they don't go along with time. The government must ensure that there are completely other brooms that sweep for a better future for Swedish film. It would be nice if the Minister for Culture could take up what she said in her reply to Olof Lavesson on 5 December that the money for Swedish film is not distributed legally. What does the Minister of Culture mean by that?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-258	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Magnusson faces and speaks in terms of hatred. I am convinced that if we want to create more culture and conditions for more films in our country and for more people to be able to work with and make a living on film, but also so that we can be many more people who can go to the cinema and watch Swedish films – then we also need to be many people who want to listen, learn, do more and who are prepared to prioritise this. At the end of the day, it will be a matter of priorities. Which government is prepared to invest in culture and not, and who sees culture as a luxury that you engage in if you get money left over? It will be one of the crucial issues in the elections, and the budget proposals show black and white who does what and who wants what. Is it clear from the budget and the draft budget of the opposition that the desire to create the conditions for many more people in our country to take part in culture in general and film in substance is clearly greater in the government, which wants much more and is prepared to prioritise, because these are priorities? I would also like to remind and inform Cecilia Magnusson that she not only needs to devote herself to my Instagram account, but she can also read previous interviews and then clearly see that I talked about production incentives long before it was written out in the Culture Committee.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-261	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson has asked me whether I and the government think it appropriate that tax funds and government agencies should be used to grade and classify news articles and prevent their dissemination. Mr Fransson has also asked me whether I and the government share the view that voters must be deterred from any irrelevant facts. The question is posed because the agency Vinnova has granted funds to a number of media companies for part-financing of the project Facts Assistant. A diversity of strong and independent media throughout the country is a crucial prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. The media examines different spheres of power in society and through their journalistic profession will convey news, explain events and put things in context. The free social debate is based on a rich flora of views and perspectives. But the facts underlying the different opinions and perspectives cannot in themselves be relativised or denied. That is why a problem arises in situations where rumours and pure falsaries are widely spread, as the public debate risks starting from false premises. I would like to point out that the facts themselves can never be irrelevant. However, certain facts may be considered irrelevant in a specific journalistic context. In the work of the free media, the selection of facts and the selection of perspectives are important publicist assessments. The way in which this work is done is not for me to judge. Several actors in the media industry have taken the initiative to combat the spread of misinformation and misinformation. I think that's good. But neither shall I, as a minister, have any views on how this work is done. Vinnova is an independent authority, and the independence of media actors is an important starting point for media policy. My task, and the main priority, is to ensure that the media have good conditions for conducting independent and professional journalism.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-267	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke, for her answer to my interpellation. Today, we are debating the government's view that the government's own authority Vinnova has initiated a project aimed at working together with news editors such as Swedish Television, DN, Expressen, Aftonbladet and Swedish Radio against so-called fake news, or false news in Swedish. In the press release that came out of Vinnova, it is stated that a number of leading Swedish news editors will counteract the spread of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It also says that it intends to develop a digital tool to reduce the risk of false and irrelevant facts reaching the audience. You take your head off. Here somewhere, all the warning bells should ring. Is it really in a democracy the task of the state, certainly through an authority in this case, to try to control the flow of news? The unequivocal answer to this question must be 'no'. I believe that the government has completely lost its compass on this issue. Now, perhaps from a perspective, this would be worthwhile if the purpose had been that the established media would be better at not spreading lies and falsaries, such as when Dagens Nyheter claimed that Sandviken earned half a billion annually on immigration or when SVT happily reported how Sweden was flooded by engineers, doctors and economists in connection with the migration crisis in 2015. Now the aim is hardly to get the established media to report more accurately, factually and truthfully. When Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson began to raise concerns about fake news last spring, it was not at all about how established media find it difficult to keep to facts or how to refrain from describing politically sensitive data. Instead, she exemplified the alleged problem with supposedly conscious lies that have been spread in some social media, but not in Sweden – except in one case, and I may have time to come back to that. It is therefore the alternative news channels that should be extended – social media and what is a little broad called alternative media. Now it may seem that I do not see the problem of lying and sometimes even slandering being widely spread on the internet via social media, but I strongly reject it. It's not about that at all. I mean, on the other hand, it's a disappearing little problem and the real problem is the lies we're being served every day from news editors who are now going to get project money to stop lies. I mean, it's like putting the fox to guard the henyard.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-274	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson asks a number of different questions and makes a number of different claims. I am going back to the question that has been put, which is why I am here today. Josef Fransson asks me very clearly, and this is what I am here to answer: Does the Minister and the Government consider it appropriate that tax funds and government agencies should be used to grade and classify news articles and prevent their dissemination? The answer is no. Question 2: Do the Minister and the Government share the view that voters must be deterred from irrelevant facts? The answer is no.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-276	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this brief contribution to the debate. I had hoped that we could be a little more profound on these issues. If we look at how the government, particularly through the Minister for Finance, Magdalena Andersson, who is one of the most powerful in the government, has expressed itself on these issues, it is quite clear that it somehow wants to control and influence the media. I suppose you feel that you are losing your way, because you have built up your policy around deep misanalyses about things that should have been foreseen. We have a police organization in crisis. Death shots are so common that you barely react anymore. The school results dive, and compared to foreign students, we are very bad. We have an overload in healthcare and sexual crimes that increase both in number and in rawness. At our universities, we focus on the quasi-sciences that gender science is and so on. We are facing a number of problems with curves pointing downwards, and this has been maintained by regular media that are now to receive project money to stop the spread of so-called lies and fake news in social media. However, no research indicates that this would be a major problem. It became very up-to-date with the elections in the United States, and it is possible that it had a major impact over there. In Sweden, however, the ordinary media have indoctrinated the people to the mild degree that we are facing the situation that we have today. I believe that there has long been a wet blanket over the truth, and now that we stand at the brink of ruin, party after party begins to say the same things that we Swedish democrats have said for decades with roughly the same problem formulations. In the past, instead, the media have been handcuffed and the problems of immigration, for example, have been concealed. There are other issues as well, but that is perhaps the biggest and most serious one. It would be interesting if the Minister here today could exemplify what is meant by fake news and what needs to be fought. I do not know if it is the biggest question and political objective of the Minister for Culture and Democracy, but the government has, of course, expressed that this is something that is important to combat. It would therefore be very interesting with a few more examples. Magdalena Andersson exemplified last spring that it was a big problem that there was a myth that we borrowed tens of billions to fund immigration. If we back up a little bit and think about where that task came from, we see that the answer is that it was from a DN article from 2015, where it was claimed that we needed to borrow money for the refugee reception. Funnily enough, the source was Magdalena Andersson herself. It's a bit of humor, you might say, that she's saying against herself quite a lot. There are quite a few interesting examples of when ministers have had difficulty sticking to the truth, although perhaps that is not exactly what we are going to debate today. However, I would like to have some concrete examples of what false news is that you are so afraid that you think it is perfectly okay for a government authority to use tax funds to fight them.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-285	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson holds a monologue. I have answered the questions both in writing and, once again, here. But if we are not eager to listen to each other, it will be that you continue to drive your monologue without actually moving forward. I don't feel like Josef Fransson has read my answer or listened to what I'm saying. I therefore repeat and stress that I do not share the view that voters should be withheld from irrelevant facts. I even stress in my written reply and also here and now that there are no irrelevant facts. If Josef Fransson starts from that answer and believes in me when I say it, we could have a fruitful dialogue on how to create more opportunities for voters, citizens and people in general to get information and facts and then form their own opinion. But if Josef Fransson is more interested in keeping a monologue about things that are not right, as I have never said and that I would never support, it will be very difficult to build a strong society and give people that opportunity. Even when it came to tax funds and the question of how government agencies should work, my answer was no. It would have been gratifying if Mr Fransson had based on it, because then we could have had a discussion here in this House based on what I actually say and what Mr Fransson says. If I'm going to take Josef Fransson seriously and listen and try to find and interpret the best from what Josef Fransson says, it's about people's ability to get the facts and from this few journalism that highlights the facts from different perspectives, because that's what journalists should do. That's what they're gonna help us with. They will deepen, and they will examine people like Josef Fransson and me. They will ask questions across the board and turn them around and put them in a global perspective or in a very local perspective. That's what journalists are supposed to do with facts. That's part of it. That is their mission, and that is how they carry our democracy. If Josef Fransson and I share the view that journalism is at the heart of our democracy, we can also agree that we need to fight for the media and journalists in our country to have the best conditions to fulfil their democratic role. I do so with vigour as Minister of Culture and Democracy by prioritising and focusing on media policy. We are doing this partly by making changes to the existing pre-support, partly through intensive work at the moment in order to present a bill to this House in which we further strengthen the possibilities of journalism in our country. There we will have a special focus on the white spots that have unfortunately arisen, where people live in the absence of a local guard that is just working to turn the perspective, deepen and review such as me and you, Josef Fransson. True is true, and false is false.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again. The Minister's view of the role of the media was almost poetically beautiful, and I agree. The problem is that there are very double signals from the government when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson says very clearly that this fake news is something that we must take seriously and fight. I don't think Vinnova has come up with the idea out of thin air-- well, we're starting a project to fight fake news! – but of course you listen to the signals from the government. You can see this all the time, for example when it comes to energy policy: the government writes a loose movement somewhere in the budget, no legislative proposal in any way, and the authorities put their ears to the ground, listen and implement it. So it is very much the will of the government that the fake news, as it is called, should be combated. I do not think it is up to the state to interfere in this. Of course, it would be great if we could get lies out of the media flow. I guess everyone would be happy about that. The only problem is who's gonna sit and be a judge. In this case, then, we give tax funds to Aftonbladet, Expressen and Dagens Nyheter, who systematically institutionalized the lie, or as DN itself puts it, work with aggregating journalism. They have an agenda with what they write and do; they went out and said it some time ago. Now they're gonna sit like some kind of guard dog and for tax money decide what's true and false. That's what it boils down to.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-298	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable but revealing that Fransson so clearly dismisses a large part of the Swedish media sector and insinuates – or explicitly says – that it is pursuing a dishonest and misleading agenda. We won't be surprised, but we'll be on our guard! It is in line with the policy of the Swedish Democrats to incite against the core of liberal democracy and one of our most important institutions, that is, our free media. It's in their line. They do so not only in Sweden, but they do so all over the world where they get power and opportunities for influence. I would like to say to everyone who is watching this debate that questioning journalism, calling into question those who have the task of examining people like me and those like us in this House, is also questioning our democracy and those who wear it.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-301	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs if there has been any Nordic coordination in connection with the move of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) from the UK, how she intends to deal with the disappointment expressed by the Danish Government in terms of lack of support for the placement of EMA in Copenhagen and thus in the Öresund region, and whether she believes that there is reason to fear a deteriorating Nordic climate of cooperation as a consequence of Denmark's perceived betrayal of Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to begin by emphasising that all the Member States agreed that the vote would be closed, and I cannot go into the precise distribution of votes out of respect for that agreement and for the other Member States. I would also like to say that the process agreed by the Member States at the European Council in June stipulates that it was a country/city that could run, not a region or group of countries. 19 Member States competed to host the EMA and 8 Member States to host the European Banking Authority, EBA. Sweden, as well as our Nordic neighbours, has worked throughout the relocation process for transparency and objective criteria. As far as Denmark is concerned, I understand that, like Sweden, they were disappointed to have won the EMA vote. Sweden's relations with Denmark are and remain close. Our countries and populations are integrated on many levels, and we have excellent cooperation on many issues. There is a great deal of convergence between our countries in international contexts. This year Sweden will take over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Government's ambition is to continue to strengthen cooperation with Denmark and our Nordic neighbours. The Öresund region is the epitome of Swedish-Danish cooperation. Cross-border cooperation is extensive. There are strong and many networks between companies, universities, organisations and individuals. The flag ship is ESS, European Spallation Source, with operations on both sides of S undet. The region is also to be seen as a common labour market for the almost 4 million people, both Danes and Swedes, who live in the region. However, it is essential that efforts to remove border barriers continue. The so-called Greater Copenhagen & Skåne Committee – which includes regions and municipalities on both sides of S undet – is an important partnership that works for this. In conclusion, I would like to say that the government considered that competition for EMA would be tough but that Sweden had the right conditions to obtain the hostship of the agency. In this situation, it was reasonable to run for something that could generate new jobs and investments in Sweden. The government has worked actively to get EMA to Sweden. E MA - candidacy has also presented Sweden with unique opportunities to show that our country is an international leader in life science with both a dynamic industry and strong research and well-functioning healthcare. We have also been able to show to the life science industry that Sweden offers an attractive environment when considering start-ups, transfer of operations or other investments. The Swedish Medical Products Agency will continue to be an active, trained and used partner for EMA. The government continues unabatedly its commitment to life science. For Sweden, it has been important that the EMA be relocated to a country that can cope adequately with relocation in an environment that guarantees continued success.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-310	Mr President, I would like to Government! Basically, I have four reflections on the answer to my interpellation. I can get them right away, and in three and a half minutes the Government can think of some really good answers. Mr President, I would like to First of all, why Strandhäll? Secondly, what really happened? Thirdly, what can be the consequences of this? Fourthly, what did the Minister mean by the last paragraph of the reply? Let me start with the first reflection: Why Strandhäll? I have nothing personal against the Minister of Social Affairs. On the contrary, I respect and respect her in her role as Minister of Social Affairs. However, Mr President, my question was raised to the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, namely the consequences for Nordic cooperation. I believe, in this case, that the reasoning on the Agency from my point of view, in this question, is of secondary importance. The central point of my question, and that is why I raised it against Margot Wallström, is about the Nordic dimension. Otherwise, if I had been interested in other answers, the possibility would have been to awaken the interpellation directly to Strandhäll. Unfortunately, this is a pattern that we see in the government. When it gets difficult, hard and hard, it ducks. I have devoted a great deal of time since July, Mr President, to the safety accident at the Transport Agency. It's funny, but as soon as you turn to a central person, it's something else the minister should take the questions and the answers. This is also true in this case. Mr President, I would like to What happened? Can Strandhäll, the Minister for Social Affairs, in any way develop the genius of the Swedish strategy? It was really the case that Sweden was one of the countries that came the lowest when it came to voting in Brussels, was it not? Sweden came after Copenhagen, after Amsterdam and after Milan. What did the strategy really look like to be successful? Then comes the third and central question: what are the consequences of this? We who live and work in the Öresund region, in South Sweden, have seen how Danish leading representatives in Danish media have repeatedly used a word, namely betrayal. You feel betrayed. It is not understood that Sweden has supported Denmark. It was perceived that when Sweden did not get Stockholm and Solna there was no support, no support or no acceptance for the idea that Copenhagen could be an excellent place of establishment. The government said in its reply that regions cannot apply. We know that. On the other hand, we in South Sweden have an understanding that what is good for Denmark and Copenhagen is good for South Sweden. Mr President, I would like to What is interesting is that in Denmark there is a reverse recognition that what is good for South Sweden is also good for Denmark and the Copenhagen region. It is not a region that was seeking, but it would undoubtedly have had great advantages for South Sweden if Copenhagen had been established. Now the strategy has failed. It was not Stockholm, and it was not Copenhagen. And there is cause for regret. What did the Government mean by the EMA paragraph of her reply: There we should agree that Stockholm would have been an excellent place, and Copenhagen would also have been an excellent place.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The government worked last year to bring the European Medicines EMA to Sweden. That's good. Unfortunately, the end result was not as good. At stake during the vote were nearly 900 high-quality jobs in medicine, technology and life science. To this shall be added any positive effects that may follow in their tracks. Sweden's candidacy went out in the first round. The government's preparatory work and preparations for the EMA application contained obvious shortcomings. That Gothenburg could also be a strong candidate for EMA was ignored by the government at a very early stage, when they had a strong overbelief in Stockholm as a candidate city. The launch of Stockholm as a candidate city missed some essentials – not least that the housing situation in the metropolitan area is neglected, that Stockholm already has 150 authorities and that people in the country were not really on that train. In addition, as we could hear in a previous post, Skåne was in favour of getting this authority to another country. In addition, Sweden, as so often, was far too late in the process. When decisions are to be made in November, you cannot start your campaign in June. Then it's already too late. For the future, it would be appropriate for the cooperation government to learn the art of negotiation and to raise its eyes beyond customs but also to build alliances with other countries, not least our Nordic brothers and sisters, which can be of future benefit to Sweden. It is far more important than summits on social pillars, which is the last thing Europe needs. Mr President, I would like to It was not only negotiating technicalities that were Sweden's weak card. Should Sweden assert itself in the world it is not enough to be almost as good as everyone else. Then it is a matter of being in the absolute world peak of economic policy conditions for both companies and individuals. In the case of a high-tech industry such as life science, this plays a role, because in the wake of a government establishment, industries will also establish themselves. With good business start-ups, it will also be more interesting for authorities at European level to establish themselves. For companies, corporate tax and conditions for growth are crucial. When the outside world, not least in front of Brexit, competes to offer low corporate tax, it is not good enough for Sweden to submerge with a few percent as the government has announced. It is too little for the good effects to consider the loss of income. Sweden needs a substantial reduction in corporate tax, and it should be well thought out. This will help to make Sweden more attractive also in many other contexts. There is much to do to establish Sweden's attractiveness with sensible tax conditions for companies and their employees and a conscious effort to tighten up the housing market, which in this context was essential. I debated more than a year ago with the representative of the Minister for Social Affairs, Gabriel Wikström, about this establishment. It was when it became clear that Sweden could be a candidate country. Then it was rather vague tones from Wikström. However, he said in that debate that, before a campaign can start, the consequences must be carefully analysed. – – As for the possibility of necessary alliances, in case a campaign is to be run, there are probably great advantages in doing this with common forces. ..................................................... My questions to Annika Strandhäll are: What happened to building alliances? Who were Sweden building alliances with? If Sweden were to build alliances, it would have been possible to be open with which country it voted for.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-333	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for the interpellation! I'll take your questions in turn. Why Strandhäll? Because I am responsible for the candidacy. The EMA Secretariat has also been located in the Ministry of Social Affairs, and that is where the work has been discontinued. Of course, the whole government has been involved in arguing for why EMA should be located in Sweden and Stockholm, but that's why St randhäll answers questions about EMA. If Hans Wallmark has other foreign policy issues that do not concern EMA, he will of course address them to the Foreign Minister in the usual order. Yeah, what happened? What happened was that Sweden, which is an extremely strong country in terms of life science, chose to run when it was possible to get an authority to Sweden that could offer a very large number of jobs. You have also mentioned in your own contributions all the advantages that candida the tour and a localisation of EMA to Sweden could have. We carried out this time period – to be corrected, i.e. the decision to run for EMA was already taken at the end of 2016 – intensive work for quite a few months. Significantly later, criteria were decided for the finalisation of an offer. But it is clear that there is an enormous amount of work behind a candidacy for such an authority. Another thing I would like to take this opportunity to mention is that Sweden and Stockholm are a very strong candidate. For example, we already have one of the EU authorities located in Stockholm: the disease control authority, which is abbreviated ECDC. There were some who considered the advantage of Stockholm and Solna in addition to the fact that we have a very strong research centre right there. When it comes to Skåne, according to the government form, it is the government that conducts foreign policy, not individual politicians in local countries. Foreign policy conducts the government. There was also no total support for the Danish candidacy in Skåne, I would say, just so that we have clarified that issue. I am very proud of the work done during our E. MA candidacy. It gave Sweden a unique opportunity to highlight an incredible number of strengths that we have in Sweden in the form of our strong life science work and in the form that we are an attractive nation to research in. The opportunity to promote Sweden that has existed in connection with this candidacy I think we will have plenty of for a long time to come. As regards whether we have cast our votes in one way or the other, we, between the Member States, have agreed that this vote is closed. We respect that. Of course, we will not reveal how we have voted, any more than we know how Denmark voted.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-340	Mr President, I would like to No, of course we do not know how individual countries have voted. However, we know one thing that we can agree on: Sweden did not do well. I have no reason not to agree with Minister Strandhäll in her description of the benefits of the European Medicines Agency and what it would mean for places that get that establishment – quite apart, Mr President, if it were to be Stockholm – Solna or Copenhagen. There's no difference. What is at issue, however, is why things went the way they did. What was the grandiose strategy? In the light of reality, it was by no means a success. What Minister Strandhäll completely avoids discussing is the Danish reaction. The central word – let me remind you once again in this House – which is repeatedly used in Denmark is The Government itself pointed out that one of the good examples of things that exist in the Öresund region and thus both in southern Sweden and in the Copenhagen region is ESS, the research facility that after many if and but has established itself in Lund and thus in the entire region. Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that the ESS establishment would not have taken place if Sweden had not formed strong alliances and other countries had stood by our side. One of the important countries that stood by us in connection with the establishment of the ESS, and which has continued to do so, is Denmark. That is why, Mr President, there is a sense of betrayal in the Öres unds region, on both sides of the street. Once you realized that it would not be Stockholm and Solna, you should at least – as everyone thinks – have signaled with drums and trumpets that Copenhagen was of course the logical establishment. The Government also says that there are other voices in Skåne that do not support an establishment in Copenhagen. I know that strong actors, such as Region Skåne's political leadership, across party and block borders, the South Swedish Chamber of Industry and H. Partisan Chamber and other important votes, have been in favour, so Minister Strandhäll is happy to remind me what votes it was that did not think Copenhagen was a good establishment. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you what the Danish Foreign Minister has said: I think that the Swedes themselves expect it to have consequences in relation to how we work together. What's happened here isn't normal. The Government explains why it is she who answers the questions: because the EMA is her responsibility. If I wanted to ask questions of a foreign policy nature, I would, according to the Minister for Social Affairs, have turned to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. That is exactly what I did, Mr President. But the government engages in this ping-pong: When it becomes difficult or unpleasant, the questions are sent between each other. Let me remind you of two of the questions I raised in my interpellation: how does the Minister intend to deal with the disappointment expressed by the Danish Government in terms of lack of support for the location of EMA in Copenhagen and thus in the Öresund region? Does the Minister consider that there is reason to fear a deterioration in the Nordic climate of cooperation as a consequence of Denmark's perceived betrayal of Sweden? Mr President, I would like to see the two questions answered by a minister of state – preferably the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, but in the absence of this, I would be happy to say to Minister Strandhäll.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-351	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister is sweeping the consequences under the carpet. We noticed that they got started too late. The Minister says that in 2016 it was reported that it would apply. I stood here on 15 November, and then the minister in charge could not say at all whether Sweden would run or not. So something happened right after that debate – very strange that the Swedish people could not know the government's ambitions at that time. Furthermore, it was too bad. I asked if the government had built any alliances. The government's life science coordinator said there would be a struggle between capitals; therefore only Stockholm was up to date. They then ignored the opportunities that both the Skåne region and Gothenburg have. Gothenburg is the strongest life science research centre after the Stockholm region. There is not least Astra Zeneca, and it would have been an exceptionally good complement to have EMA there. Of the three final candidates, only one proved to be the capital. There would be a struggle between capital cities, but it was a struggle where the only capital was Copenhagen, which Sweden now says it did not support or support; it says nothing at all. And you don't say whether you built the alliance or not. The other two were Milan, which Sweden supposedly supported, and Amsterdam, as it was – neither was it a capital city. I find it sad that this authority did not end up in Sweden and that the preparations were not such that it was made possible. I hope that the government has learned something from this for future exercises.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-355	Mr President, I would like to I am very proud of our E. MA candidacy and the way we conducted it. An EMA Secretariat was established at the Ministry of Social Affairs in December 2016. This has obviously been completely transparent all the way. There have been no secrets in any way. On the other hand, the criteria were decided much later, and eventually they had about a month and a half to produce their final bid. That work took place during the summer. The leaders of the various nations also agreed on how to do this. There haven't been any secrets at all. I am proud of our candidacy and the way it has helped to put Sweden, our life science industry and our research environment on the map. I am convinced that we will continue to benefit greatly from this. Of course there was dialogue with all countries. Nor is it a secret for any of the gentlemen that, in principle, the country of species was running for EMA or for both EMA and EBA. I do not have the exact figures in my head, but I believe that the final round was 19 or 20 countries that remained with their candidacy. The EMA, after the lottery decision, went to Amsterdam. It is very pleasing to note that there were many strong candidates throughout this period, who had strong candidatures. I am convinced that we can try to make the EMA end up in Amsterdam. It will be very good, and we from Sweden will continue to be a constructive party to the EMA, just as we have been during the time when the authority has been in London. As far as our relationship with Denmark is concerned, of course, it remains good; there is no doubt about that. During this process, we have repeatedly had dialogues with Denmark and other Nordic colleagues, at ministerial level and at other levels. We have reasoned on the pros and cons of the various candidatures. There was also a stage in which this issue was discussed between the Nordic prime ministers. It was agreed that the Nordic candidacy should be conducted individually, just as we have done. I have great respect for the disappointment of the Danish Foreign Minister, who, of course, was also felt by us when the EMA decision did not move in our direction. But my assessment is that the issue is now closed. It was a competition, and all the 18 other 19 countries that did not get the E MA decision in their direction are, of course, disappointed. We have all done a great and solid job throughout this period of time, which I believe we will have very good in the long term.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-363	Mr President, I would like to What the Minister misses is that it is not a matter of general disappointment that you did not get what you wanted, that things went as they could or that it was a failure. In the case of Denmark and Copenhagen, you feel betrayed. That is what has been at the heart of the matter, and that is what the Government shows a complete inability to understand. This applies not only to the Danish but also to the Scanian and southern Swedish side of Öresund. I am absolutely convinced that it would have been a great strength if the agency had been established in the Stockholm area. But I am also convinced, Mr President, that it would have been a great strength if it had been established in Copenhagen. This is very rarely heard from the Swedish Government, so the Government is now able to say that it would have been good if it had become Copenhagen and thus the Öresund region. It would have meant work and great technical competence and would also have been a way for Sweden to thank us for the help: you supported us when it came to ESS; we make sure that, now that it did not become Stockholm, it will be in the Copenhagen area. Mr President, I would like to We who live in the Öresund region realise that what is good for Copenhagen is good for South Sweden, and what is good for South Sweden is good for Copenhagen and Denmark. That insight is not in the present government. The government can hope, believe and wish that they no longer feel betrayed, but we who live in the area and meet representatives down there know that those feelings exist. Now many Danes know that there were very many on the South Swedish side who also worked for Copenhagen, in some cases parallel to Stockholm. One could possibly say that they have helped to straighten up the picture, not thanks to Stockholm or the Red Green Government but thanks to the commitment that is down there. Nordic cooperation should be beyond the party speeches. It is about content, and there the red-green government has failed.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-368	Mr President, I would like to I am very clear that I do not share the exaggerated fears that I think you are expressing, Hans Wallmark. The issue was discussed between the Nordic prime ministers, and we all knew the conditions under which we entered the candidacy. We were not alone in running for office. I believe, as I said, that from the beginning 21 European countries were running for office. At Prime Minister level, we also agreed to run individual candidatures. I know that there was disappointment among some representatives in Skåne. I also know that Mr Rothenberg would have liked to have seen us running a candidacy for Gothenburg instead. There is always a lot of emotion in these situations. We have a solid, good relationship with Denmark. I also had repeated dialogues at ministerial level with my Danish colleague, as I know many of my colleagues in government had, as well as with other representatives of the various candidate countries. We ran an open and transparent process and had an open and transparent dialogue. There were many very good candidates. If the EMA had ended up in Copenhagen, I am convinced that it would have been excellent. I am also convinced that it will be excellent in Amsterdam. I think it is important that, as a government, when we have made agreements on how to deal with a matter, openly or at the end, we also stand for it. You respect that. I know that my Danish colleagues respect that and understand that. During this year, as I said, we are also chairman of the Nordic Council of Ministers and will work warmly for a good relationship between the Nordic countries.
i-UhCYFm3GkhSd79M6DpQQKG	Mr President, I would like to Rasmus Ling has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs how she and the Government intend to work towards better cooperation between the Nordic countries in the future on strategically important issues relating to the location of authorities and whether she and the Government intend to strengthen the application process with the EMA, including the question of whether coordination with Denmark had led to better results. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The process and procedures for the relocation of the EMA and the European Banking Authority, EBA, developed by the Heads of State or Government at the European Council in June 2017 were unique. There is currently no indication that further relocations of EU authorities are underway within the EU. I would also like to emphasise that the process agreed by the Member States at the European Council stipulates that it was a country and a city that could run, not a region or a group of countries. 19 Member States competed to host EMA and 8 Member States to host EBA. Sweden, as well as our Nordic neighbours, has worked throughout the relocation process for transparency and objective criteria. The Nordic countries are integrated on several levels, and we have excellent cooperation on many issues. There is a great deal of convergence between our countries in international contexts. The Government's ambition is to continue to strengthen cooperation with Denmark and our Nordic neighbours. This year Sweden will also take over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The government considered that the competition for EMA would be tough but that Sweden had the right conditions to obtain the hostship of the agency. In this situation, it was reasonable to run for something that could generate new jobs and investments in Sweden. The prime ministers of the three Nordic EU Member States have jointly discussed the EMA process and concluded that it was in the interest of the three countries to continue their national candidacy. As in previous candidacys, the government's continued action will take advantage of the experience gained.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-377	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Strandhäll, for your answer! The fact that this process has been unique is true. Hopefully, we will not get any more such cases involving countries choosing to leave the European Union. This was the reason for the relocation of EMA. However, I think that there is reason to review how this process has gone and also how the relationship with Denmark can be improved. The Government writes in the answer to my interpellation that this should be followed up. I would like to hear more specifically how the government intends to make use of the experience gained. Mr President, I would like to I also think that in the future the government should look more clearly at how the development of the Öresund region can be strengthened and also see that it is a matter of national interest. It is usually emphasised that what is good for Stockholm and here in the county also benefits Sweden. Similarly, of course, it is in other parts of the country. What is good for the Öresund region is also good for the rest of Sweden. Unfortunately, these issues are not enough in focus. This is nothing new. The previous government dealt with these issues worse than the current government does, but nevertheless it is something that should be improved. I mean that the handling of EMA is one such example. Since the arrival of the Öresund Bridge, integration has increased. The Öresund region is a dynamic region, and people travel back and forth to experience events, work, study, vacation, date and so on. 15 000 people commute daily. The commuting is of the same order of magnitude as the one between Uppsala and Stockholm County. With the Fehmarn Belt link between Denmark and Germany, which will be completed within a number of years, the Öresund region will be further strengthened. Hamburg will then be closer to Malmö in time than Stockholm is. It is often said that the whole country will live. That is an objective on which there is almost a consensus. Of course, what that means can be discussed. Few people expect it to be exactly the same level of service everywhere. It is natural to place more authorities, state museums and other things in a capital city. But you can also expect to make investments in other parts of the country. It was not strange that the government wanted EMA to Sweden. It was a good application, and it had meant a lot of jobs and had had positive effects in many ways, not least for the life science industry that exists. This is certainly not the problem, but the problem is that there were other investments that would also have benefited Swedish interests. I hear that we want to strengthen our ambition in terms of cooperation with Denmark and other Nordic neighbours. The question I would like to ask Minister Strandhäll is: what are the more specific areas on which cooperation will be strengthened?
i-2xuoCymBM9MSJpnNpaE593	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for your interpellation, your dedication and your questions! In connection with the government's decision to run for EMA, we obviously made careful consideration as to how we wanted to design our candidacy. It was, of course, about synergies. For example, we already have an EU agency in Stockholm: ECDC, which deals with infectious diseases. That was an important advantage. It was to a large extent about the proximity to Karolinska Institutet, about the attractiveness of it and about this being an area where we have a strong life science business, which we thought would last well in an international context as well. While we were working on designing the candidacy, it also turned out that we got other important parts, puzzle pieces, in place. For example, it was about the possibility of solving the housing issue for all the 900 employees and 600 children involved. So there were many pieces of the puzzle that made us end up landing in a candidacy from Stockholm. The point is that part of the work on the EMA candidacy became very clear that several cities were not allowed to run jointly, that regions were not allowed to run and that several countries were not allowed to apply jointly. It did well even more that it became a strong slope just to Stockholm. I think we made a very good offer. We had a very strong candidacy. What has also been very important about this candidacy is that it has provided us with unique opportunities during this period to show our country and show that we are the world leader in life science, that we have a dynamic industry and that we have a strong research and a very well-functioning health care. We have also, I think, been able to show during this period that Sweden offers an environment that is attractive when considering start-ups or transfers of activities. I believe that we will benefit from this for a long time to come. I feel confident that Sweden's relations with Denmark are and remain close. Both our countries and, as you say, our populations are integrated on very many levels, and we have excellent cooperation on various issues. In his speech, Rasmus Ling wondered how we intend to move forward with strengthening that cooperation. Yes, we are doing so, for example, by taking over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year. We will of course use this opportunity to build even stronger relationships with our colleagues around the Nordic region, not least Denmark. They should be able to feel confident and confident that we stand up for each other in the Nordic community. I do not hope that Öresund will feel left out by this government. We have had a very clear policy that has been about locating authorities and businesses, for example, throughout the country to point out that the whole of Sweden will live.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-393	Mr President, I would like to Just to be clear: I have never questioned that the government has sought to get EMA to Sweden. There were great advantages to it. I share what Minister Strandhäll says. Karolinska Institutet is strong. We have good life science and other conditions. It would have been very good if it had ended up in Sweden and in the Stockholm area. I am also aware that it was not possible to apply with others. However, I think we could have been clearer. At a time when Sweden was no longer a candidate, when we had left, we should have been clearer about the fact that we did not oppose the Danish candidacy. Region Skåne chose early to support the Danish candidacy. The chairman of the Regional Executive Board, Henrik Fritzon, spoke with disappointment in South Sweden after it became known that the authority instead ended up in Amsterdam. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of Malmö, Katrin Stjernfeldt Jammeh, has also stated that Copenhagen would have been a good location. It is problematic, Mr President, that we have a situation in which taxpayers in southern Sweden have paid for parallel campaigns. It is a state for Stockholm and a regional for Copenhagen. It's problematic. Although there has not been much money for Region Skåne, a better balance would have been better. I am pleased to hear that the government sees that good relations between Sweden and Denmark are important. In fact, it is absolutely crucial for those of us who live in Skåne and who often move us across Sundet. Over time, we have seen that many border barriers issues have been resolved. Unfortunately, however, new border barriers have arisen from time to time. For 15 to 16 months we lived with ID checks. They are now better removed. However, we are still living under border controls, which are causing problems and making travel more cumbersome than it should be. It also increases mental distance. Another example that does not benefit southern Sweden is that the government wants Arlanda to become the largest airport in the Nordic region and has it as an end in itself. It is therefore a question of bypassing Gardemoen and Kastrup in terms of the number of travellers. Then you think it is more important that those who live in Stockholm should have good connections than that we who live in Skåne should have it. I would therefore like to ask whether the Government does not understand the motives of Region Skåne in these parts – that there have been two parallel campaigns. Then I would like to hear whether there are concrete examples of what issues will be pursued as the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in the coming year.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-401	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for this recording! I think it is extremely important for me to emphasise that we have in no way worked against anyone's candidacy, especially Denmark's. However, we have worked for our own candidacy. That is exactly what the Nordic prime ministers agreed that we should do. This issue has been discussed with both the Prime Minister of Finland and the Prime Minister of Denmark. Finland also had a candidacy. It was a touching consensus that each country would continue to pursue its candidacy on its own. We had three strong Nordic candidatures. It is important to emphasise that. On the other hand, Sweden, Denmark and the other countries respect the agreement we have made. We have agreed that we will not reveal how we vote. This has been played out in the form of secret ballots, and we will respect that. I think it's incredibly important to be clear about that. During the whole time we worked on our campaign we had an ongoing dialogue with our Nordic colleagues. I met my Finnish ministerial colleague on several occasions, I met with our Baltic colleagues who did not have their own candidacy and I met with our Danish colleague on several occasions and discussed these different parts. I believe that all of us, as it often is in such contexts, have gone in with a full heart to make the best possible campaign. And when you didn't go all the way, the frustration and disappointment became quite great. But Sweden and Denmark are not working against each other. We agree on the rules of the game, and then we follow them. We have done the same in this case. It is also important to emphasise that Swedish foreign policy, according to the form of government, is run by the government and not by individual politicians in different countries. If it is in this way that Region Skåne has contributed to two campaigns at the same time, it is a decision that has to stand for Region Skåne. One alternative would have been to have joined the Swedish candidacy once we had put our foot down and clearly stated that we will run Stockholm, perhaps especially when we could also see with all the clarity that it was not possible to run a whole region or, for that matter, for several countries to run jointly. But what do I know? At least it was an option. As I said, we have intensive cooperation with our Nordic colleagues on several different issues and are also preparing how and on which issues we will cooperate as we take over the club in the Nordic Council of Ministers.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-408	Mr President, I would like to I am quite clear that foreign policy is something driven by the government. But the point is that we do not regard Denmark as foreign, because it is 15 to 20 minutes away by train and we move there daily. It is absolutely crucial for us to be able to develop. I am pleased that the Red-Green Government has had a more aggressive policy of localisation of authorities in different parts of the country. It's important. Sometimes people say a little sloppy that there are more government jobs in the metropolitan regions. Then you make a mistake. There are considerably more in Stockholm than in the Gothenburg area, and there are even fewer in the Malmö area. It needs to spread more. Perhaps the very word relocation is not the word I would use myself. Rather, it can be described as being in different places. With relocation, a lot of things are based on Stockholm. Someone compared how it was done when determining the location with the points system in the Eurovision Song Contest. I think there are two things that differ. One is that in Eurovision Song Contest it is more transparent how different countries vote. Of course, one can discuss whether it should be that way. The second thing is that in Eurovision Song Contest, neighbouring countries usually vote for each other. I hope that we will be able to work together better next time.
i-Sfh7N9qjZD8vq28UQvfAYv	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for that input, Rasmus Ling! It is no secret that there has been a somewhat odd process in this part, with some special rules of play. I think it is safe to say that the unfortunate background is what Rasmus Ling raised at the outset, namely that we are dissuading the relocation of EMA at all because a country chooses to leave our cooperation. I must say that the comparison with Eurovision Song Contest is quite well-found. Once again, I would like to stress most strongly the importance of Nordic cooperation, that we protect it and that we have a very good dialogue with our Danish colleagues. I believe that this issue is now closed. And we will continue to work intensively and together on the issues on which we see common benefits. I also agree with the way Rasmus Ling chooses to express it. We are not going to talk about relocation, but we are going to talk about how all parts of Sweden should feel that they contribute and are seen in exactly the same way as Stockholm – I am a Gothenburger myself. It has indeed been an important part of government policy. For example, we will have a new police academy in Malmö and hopefully even more important activities for the region's development. I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-418	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that private practitioners and free choice of care are allowed to compete and exist in Sweden also for rheumatists. As Christian Holm Barenfeld certainly knows, county councils and municipalities can hand over health care activities to private providers through procurement under the Public Procurement Act or by introducing a freedom of choice system under the Freedom of Choice Act. However, the principal always has overall responsibility for the operation and must ensure that it is carried out with good quality. In primary care, it became mandatory to implement care choice systems in 2010. The Health Act states that the county council will organise primary care so that everyone covered by the county council's responsibility for health care can choose the provider of health services and have access to and choose a permanent doctor's contact. The county council must not restrict the individual's choice to a specific geographical area within the county council. And the law on freedom of choice is to be applied. As is well known, in specialist care, it is voluntary for county councils to introduce freedom of choice systems. This opportunity has so far been most widely used in Stockholm County Council. The government has no plans to introduce a compulsory freedom of choice system in specialist care. Christian Holm Barenfeld's question about rheumatists' access to healthcare choices and private performers is best answered by the principals, who are responsible for ensuring that the business is conducted with sufficient quality. The government has recently set up an investigation, order and care. Based on trust-based governance, the investigator shall review, among other things, the law on freedom of choice. The needs, prerequisites, pros and cons of introducing certain permit trials or alternatives to such trials in the health sector shall also be investigated. In doing so, I believe that the interpellation has been answered.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to my interpellation, Annika Strandhäll! The intervention was written for several reasons, precisely because the free choice for rheumatists has now been voted against here in Stockholm. It is certainly an alliance county council, but also the opposition with the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats chose to go on the line of not having the free choice of care. It worries me a little. In this situation, an investigation has been set up to review the free choice of care as a whole from the government. Even in the government, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Social Democrats are working together with the Left Party, which is not gracious in its criticism of most of what is about freedom of choice, about something relating to the market and about things that politicians do not control. Even county councils call it forced electoral freedom when it is not county counciled and ruled by politicians. I am concerned that both the opposition in the county council and the Swedish government are working together. I asked the question: what measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure that private practitioners and free choice of care are allowed to compete and exist in Sweden also for rheumatists? However, I cannot interpret the answer in any other way than that the Minister intends to do nothing. If so, is that understood correctly? Does the Minister of Social Affairs share the views of the government support party? What, then, are the views of the Minister of Social Affairs on the free choice of care in general, especially in the case of rheumatists? What makes rheumatists not have the same opportunity as others to choose freely? The fact that it is the Stockholm County Council that has made the most use of the choice of care can certainly have some ideological reasons. We see benefits with opportunities for the patient to choose. If the patient chooses to go to the county council or any other performer is for me egalt. What is important, of course, is that the service and care provided are qualitative and suitable for the individual. That is why freedom of choice is so good, not only in healthcare but in all areas. It is when there is competition and choice that quality is normally at its best.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-430	Mr President, I would like to There are a few different things I would like to take this opportunity to say to the interpellier. First of all, it is voluntary for county councils to introduce freedom of choice in specialised care, including in rheumatist care. Of course, even if you do not have a care choice system, you can procure private performers. The answer is indeed interpreted by the interpellier, namely, in short, that I will do nothing at all. It is the county councils that decide how the care should be organised. You can decide, as I said, that the care should either be organised with a large element of private alternatives or even with no such elements at all. Without, for the sake of this, going into or reviewing the decisions made by the Stockholm County Council, it is true that precisely when it comes to rheumatology, it was a compact resistance to the very ideologically driven introduction of Vårdval rheumatology. Representatives of the Rheumatics Association of Patients, of the specialists in rheumatology, of the Swedish Rheumatological Association, representatives of research and education in rheumatology, of Karolinska Institutet– all opposed the introduction of V oedval rheumatology. After all, the Social Democrats were not exactly alone with the other parties who voted against the introduction. There was, of course, a total and complete participation of all representatives of rheumatology in Sweden. It was not possible to find anyone who supported the ideologically driven experiment that it was intended to introduce. I certainly do not hope that the government is now being accused of the political leadership of Stockholm County Council not being able to anchor its decisions in the county council. You obviously don't have a plan B either when you don't get your proposals through. Something that concerns me right now when it comes to vårdval rheumatology in Stockholm or the availability of professional expertise for rheumatists is that already last spring this situation rose up. Nevertheless, if I understand correctly, the answer from the responsible alliance politicians in Stockholm is little that one has to blame oneself. It has not been possible to procure private carers. Now everyone is referred to the county-run care. It is clear that it is the responsibility of the County Council Alliance to provide high quality activities for the rheumatists in Stockholm. Swedish health care must not be run by an ideological Santa workshop. You have to listen to professions, patients' representatives and research and support your decisions properly.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-438	Mr President, I would like to Freedom of choice and the patient's ability to choose is not an ideological experiment. That is basically what should be common sense and reasonableness. Of course, there is a great deal of ideology in this. I know that the choice of care was not something that the Social Democrats did the wave for when it was introduced. Freedom of choice has never really been appreciated by the left-wing political side. If you go to the extreme left and end up in the Western Party, it is described as forced freedom of choice. I think it is something shameful. If a good reform is carried out, then surely the opposition that makes it have a responsibility. The Minister is well aware that contracting a completely new business to this extent takes time, often years. There were those representatives of the various parts who were doubtful. I know, of course, that the chairman of the Rheumatiks Federation shares the Minister's ideological residence as former Social Democratic Chairman of Järfälla. There are political views in other organisations as well. In that situation, I find it difficult to see the dangers of the possibility for rheumatists to choose in the same way as others. That, of course, is ideological nonsense that does not put the interests of the patient but the interests of party politics in focus. We think it is important to have freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is important because it increases patients' rights. Competition in the same way as in other areas is good for quality, accessibility and more. I am not from Stockholm, but I come from a county that certainly has a liberal county government. But it is not that one can say that if it is done well in Stockholm, the risk is that rheumatologists and others will leave the rest of Sweden to work in Stockholm. Then it's a problem for other county councils if they're so awfully bad that people don't want to work there. If you choose to move elsewhere, that's more like what the Minister of Social Affairs should focus on. How to ensure that it becomes attractive throughout the country in this industry so that more people hopefully choose to educate themselves or to stay and apply to other areas? One cannot use the argument that if it becomes to actively work in an area it should not be implemented. These are the arguments that have been used.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-445	Mr President, I would like to I am amazed by this speech. Of course, the Stockholm County Council has a responsibility, just like all of us, to ensure that it has support for the proposals it makes. If you do not support the proposals you make, you have to have a plan B when patients may suffer, instead of pointing the finger at rheumatists and saying that it is common sense that they should want to choose. I think this is an extremely strange way of expressing oneself. In addition, representatives of patient organisations are politicised. In this case, it was not the case that an individual organisation has run an opposition to the ideologically driven election of health care, called Vårdval rheumatology. It is enough to google on this, Christian Holm Barenfeld. It can then be noted that these are representatives of the Rheumatics Association, the specialists in rheumatology, the Swedish Rheumatological Association, research and education in rheumatology and Karolinska Institutet. There was no one on your side in introducing this, whether patient representatives, professions or research. As politicians, we must be able to listen to this. Let me quote the end of a debate article written by Hans Håkansson, then president of the Rheumatiks Federation, and Cecilia Carlen, chairman of the Swedish Rheumatological Association: ..................................................... Such things must be taken to heart and thought through. When it comes to smartness, accessibility and one thing with the other, as a national health care politician, I can think a lot about, for example, maternity care. I note that BB Sophias's closure did not have very positive effects on accessibility in Stockholm's maternity care. What we politicians must always have in mind is what is best for patients, not to have the starting point of running an ideological Santa workshop.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-452	Mr President, I would like to You should have the patient's best interests in mind. The patient's choice is not harmful to the patient. To call this an ideological Santa workshop, I think, is on a level that we should not keep on. It is about delivering good care and the possibility of choice and patient impact. It is true that this debate is not about maternity care, but we can certainly discuss it. There has been talk of Sollefteå for a long time, where the party members of the Minister for Social Affairs run and shut down BB. There have been cases where births have taken place along the road because the cars have not reached BB before birth. This can be discussed very much. However, the debate was about the possibility of freedom of choice. Freedom of choice, Minister, is not dangerous. It is not harmful, and it is certainly not an ideological Santa workshop or an ideological experiment. On the other hand, there is a very strong ideology that thinks that it is very wrong with all kinds of alternatives in what has traditionally been in the public sector. I am not going to politicise various organisations, but I do not think that, if you put it that way, you, as the Chairman of the Social Democratic Municipal Council, directly abandon your ideological convictions simply because you change your hat on the organisation.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-456	Mr President, I would like to I think you have to be very careful here, and I am thinking about whether Christian Holm Barenfeld has heard what I have said. He keeps saying that freedom of choice is not dangerous for patients. But the fact is, it was about the unity of patient organizations. Once again, I can see how he is trying to politicise the issue. It's not politicized. There was a consensus from the profession, patient representatives and research that this would have negative effects on patients with rheumatism. How to deliver absolutely the best quality care to citizens is precisely what you have to do as a task and as a guiding principle, not least as a county council politician. If you have such a strong opinion against such serious representatives, you should listen to it and not push the matter further into the tile and then point to the patients and the opposition and say that it is their fault if you cannot provide sufficient resources in the area of rheumatology in the years to come. No, this doesn't hold. As responsible politicians for health care, we all constantly need to do what we can to deliver the best possible care to patients. That is the task.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-460	Mr President, I would like to Ulrika Karlsson has asked me about the government's position on the future development of the EU, how the government intends to pursue its line in the EU community and how it intends to anchor its positions on the future of the EU at home. Within the EU, a necessary and useful debate on the future has begun. Although much works well at EU level, there is reason for self-examination. The more people involved in the debate on the future, the better the conditions for strengthening confidence in European cooperation among our citizens. Therefore, the government is pushing for the EU to focus on solving the challenges people are facing here and now and not focusing on major treaty changes or institutional projects. Work in the EU has for a long time focused mainly on the internal market – removing barriers to trade and facilitating mobility. It's important and good. More than 70% of Sweden's exports go to the EU's internal market. Now we have to work on improving the conditions for everyone who lives, lives and works here. Through Prime Minister Lövven's initiative The summit for fair jobs and growth in Gothenburg, the government has put the question of how we can help create more and better jobs on the agenda. Sweden has made a clear impression in the EU's future debate, which will be visible for a long time to come. The government is also pushing for the EU to agree on a sustainable and solidarity-based migration policy, create security for citizens and lead the transition in climate change to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This is why it is positive that these issues are the focus of the work plan called Leader's Agenda for the European Council's work up to the spring 2019 European elections prepared by President Donald. The Commission's White Paper on the future of Europe and the subsequent discussion papers have provided valuable input into the debate on the future. The Government has conducted EU Councils on all five discussion papers, informed the Riksdag in the form of fact minutes and informed or deliberated with several specialist committees. The government plans to implement a further gathering EU Council on the future of the EU in spring 2018 ahead of Europe Day on 9 May. The EU Councils have been appreciated by the participants and have contributed to a valuable deepening and broadening of the government's perspective in preparation for discussions between the Member States and the EU institutions. Last December, I sent a letter to the European Commission and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In this letter, I describe the government's work in anchoring future discussions in Sweden and offer to share our experience with the ministerial colleges and the Commission. The letter also included translated memos from the five EU Councils on discussion papers. The letter and the memos from the expert councils can be found on the Government's website. Over the past year, various ideas and ideas have been presented about the future cooperation of the EU. We recognize some of them, but some are new. When formal proposals are made, the Government will examine them more closely and return to the Riksdag in the usual order. Mr President, I would like to The overall position of the government is clear: Setting up new functions or making institutional changes is not a universal solution to the challenges facing the EU. For example, as a starting point, the government is reluctant to merge the Council and Commission Presidency positions into one post. Nor does the government believe that it is the right way to create a European economic and finance minister's post. Today, Sweden has an extensive network in the EU's work, and studies show that we are a highly respected partner in the negotiations. The Government and the Government Office are actively working to increase efforts in cooperation with other Member States. Finally, an important issue for the future in the EU's work is the design of the next Multiannual Financial Framework. This is why the government has been early in the process of establishing a line of action with a clear focus on expenditure-restrictiveness and modernisation through less resources for, among other things, agricultural support and cohesion policy, as well as the prioritisation of security, competitiveness, research and climate change measures. Here the government works closely with Member States with similar views in order to achieve the greatest possible impact.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-470	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for the answer to my interpellation. It is a very important interpellation, I think, and it is about the future of Europe. This has been brought up to date with Britain's choice to leave the European Union and with the decision taken a few years ago on Midsummer Eve. EU Heads of State or Government and the Commission have given much thought to how to shape and create the EU in the future. In March 2017, the Commission presented its White Paper setting out five scenarios, which have been discussed at several summits with Heads of State or Government. Some of them are very far-reaching. The Government itself referred to the proposals on the joint EU Minister for Finance and to merging the Council and Commission Presidency positions into one post. Another proposal is to remove unanimity in the area of tax law and to apply qualified majority voting. The reason I have intervened with the Government on this matter is that it is still unclear how the Government views these five scenarios and the White Paper. As this has been discussed at several summits, I felt compelled to interpel the Minister, because I am interested in how the government is discussing, how the government thinks and what line it is pursuing in Europe. I haven't really got an answer to that. I'd like to hear a little more from the government about how to run this. The Government says that we have a good network within Europe and that we are a highly respected partner. But how do we benefit from being a highly esteemed partner? On what questions do we have a network and on what issues do we cooperate? How do we act now to perhaps stop some of the proposals or push forward in other parts? In my view, EU cooperation is intended to solve the fundamental cross-border problems such as terrorism, environmental threats, international serious organised crime and the issue of migration. How do we focus on those questions? Are we focusing on opening up to competition and on how we create more jobs and get fruitful economies in Europe rather than talking about institutional projects, building new institutions, running new projects and making new Treaty changes? I would like to know a little more from the Government about how to act within the European Union.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-475	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulrika Karlsson for the interpellation, which I think is very important. On a number of fundamental issues, we think the same thing. The essence of the Swedish EU position must be that we focus on delivering solutions to what people are experiencing as problems and not on making up new institutional changes that might not contribute at all to it, but rather perhaps taking Europe further away from the citizens. It's about getting more and better jobs. That is why we need to have a better internal market. We need to improve the digital single market and the services market. There are a lot of problems left. If we solve them, we can increase efficiency. Ulrika Karlsson asks how we conduct the debate on the future. As I was trying to say, we have had the system that we have both had expert advice and have talked to the specialist committees. Then we have tried to influence Europe both by having all the results translated from all the points of view and by sending them to the Commission in December and by various ministers ensuring that we have alliances in the various countries. I have concentrated in particular on, for example, Germany, France and Italy – large, heavy countries where we would like to have parts of what we think. Sometimes it's not easy. With regard to the discussions that Mr Macron has presented, not least in his New Year's speech, and what is being marketed in some parts of Germany – if there is anything of it – one can say that it is not entirely in line with the Swedish line. Then we need to try to influence as much as we can. At the same time, we have some countries that are quite similar to us. It is Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands, for example, but on some issues it is also the Czech Republic, for example. There we can try to form alliances. But it is more difficult now, because in the past we almost always had the same line as Britain. Then we had a big country we could lean on. We could lean on each other and push the questions. Now it's not that obvious anymore. This makes the work more difficult; we cannot know on all issues that we will have a large partner. I'm spending a lot of time on this. Other ministers, but also Members of Parliament, Heads of Government and so on, should also be active in this work, because the EU is coming a long way in the debate on the future. The Swedish positions must be heard there.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-480	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Linde is absolutely right that we are losing an important partner. For a very long time we have been in arms with the UK but also the Netherlands, Denmark, on many issues Finland and Germany. We are losing an important partner on these issues, not least in view of the negotiations on the long-term budget. However, before Britain had its referendum, the EU signed an agreement with the UK on what would apply and what direction EU cooperation would take in the case it voted to decide to remain in the European Union. That agreement was very well in line with the previous Swedish positions. It was about opening up competition and promoting new jobs. It was about liberalisation, a reform agenda and a common service sector. But it was also about such an issue as orange cards, that is, what influence the national parliaments should have, and about the issue of child allowances exported to other countries. If a person comes from another EU country and works in the UK or in Sweden, we can take in Sweden, and there are children left in the home country, the Swedish child benefit is paid to the child that is left. It was an important issue in Britain. On the issue of child benefit and the indexation of child benefit – that is, it may not be in Swedish levels but in German levels to Germany, or Romanian levels to Romania, and so on – there are several countries that are now pushing for changes in line with the agreement on indexing child benefit. I understand that Sweden does not belong to that circle. I cannot understand in which parts Sweden belongs to the circle that pushes in the parts that were in the agreement signed by the UK and the EU prior to the referendum and which were in line with the previous Swedish positions. Now it's going the wrong way. Now we are talking about more power transfer and more tasks. It will be an ever-closer union, given what the Swedish position has been before. I believe that a clear Swedish line is important in order to be able to work across party boundaries for the same thing. A clear Swedish mandate and a clear Swedish position where we cooperate across party boundaries benefit Sweden, Sweden's cause and Europe. In which parts do we cooperate with these networks that the Government ran into?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-485	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to emphasise that there have now been some studies showing that Sweden is affecting more in the European Union than one could actually expect of our size. The starting point is the same as Ulrika Karlsson says: It will be good for citizens in concrete matters and less of major institutional changes. That is why we are talking about concrete things: jobs, growth, ambitious climate, energy and environmental policies, solidarity in refugee and migration policies and a secure environment. In concrete terms, we have pushed for the climate agreement in Paris so that it would happen and be as good as possible. We have been one of the most driving forces to get to the trade agreement with Canada, the CETA agreement. There I can now feel a concern, which I think Ulrika Karlsson shares, when France went out in December and said that it did not want to sign any new trade agreements unless it directly protected workers and industries in its own countries. We have been very driven, including myself personally, to ensure that work on the principles of the rule of law is given the highest priority in the European Union. It is not such a fun job when one of the countries does not follow the principles of the rule of law, but it is very important. Then there is the global strategy for foreign and security policy. With regard to the issues relating to citizens' rights, which were part of what was negotiated with the EU by Prime Minister Cameron at the time, these are precisely the pieces of the relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom are now in the withdrawal agreement agreed at the end of December, where citizens' rights were one of the most important things. This applies not least to us, because 100 000 Swedes live in the UK. This applies to the issues of child benefit, social assistance and the possibility of taking the rights of a partner with you even if you divorce, marry and have children in different places. These are incredibly technical and difficult issues that go directly into individual families, no matter what those families look like. It has to do with what Ulrika Karlsson is talking about. I hope that we have made further progress in these discussions, but that is by no means over. Now the next part begins on the question of what relationship we are going to have with Britain. It is about the future of Europe. But I would like to say that this issue is also very much about the future of Sweden.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-491	Mr President, I would like to I believe that both the Government and I agree that when citizens feel that the European Union is not delivering solutions to the common problems, such as the common migration challenges, expectations are bursting. When the foundations of the European Union have their cracks, it is not time to build new floors on that house. It is not time to build new institutions and new projects. This is the discussion we have with the White Paper which is now on our table and which has been there since March. There is still no clear line on the Swedish position and how the government is pushing it in negotiations. I find it remarkable and very worrying. Such a question of a joint President of the Commission and of the Council shifts the whole doctrine of power sharing within the European Union. It deprives national parliaments and nations of power by extension. The same applies to the question of removing unanimity. These are important issues. I think it is shameful that we do not discuss them any more. I welcome the talks that have been held. But I would like us in the Swedish Parliament to discuss them more. The government is happy to take the initiative to find a clear focus on what we think together, what is the Swedish position and how we work to reach support for the Swedish position.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-495	Mr President, I would like to I do not think the honourable Member needs to be so concerned about the time perspective. Firstly, we have already had expert advice and information and discussions in all committees on the basis of discussion on all issues and also sent it to the Commission, which is more than most other countries have done. Second, the time perspective is until spring 2019. There has not been any negotiations in the EU system at all yet. We are a bit at the forefront because we have already submitted what we think in Swedish organisations and in our respective committees. Then we will have a collection heat on the overall during spring 2018. Well, then we're gonna be pretty early anyway. I don't think most other countries have even come that far. It is now proposed from France to have citizens' talks on these issues between April and October 2018. That is also where we are at the forefront, in that tomorrow I will be holding the 50th EU handshake. It is over 50 organisations, regions and local municipalities that have already dealt with the EU and what we can do more of the EU. There too, for example, France but also several other countries refer to what Sweden is doing to improve democracy and influence in the future. We'll have a lot of time. There's still a year and a half left. I welcome the fact that Ulrika Karlsson and the other Members of Parliament, together with the Government, are taking a really active part in this debate.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-499	Mr President, I would like to John Widegren has asked me when the Riksdag and our forest owners can expect the Government Office to have prepared the question of whether or not a review of the Species Protection Regulation should be carried out. He has also asked me what my view is on the current application of the Species Protection Regulation. I would like to start by saying that the government has a high level of ambition in terms of its work on biodiversity. The environmental objectives must be achieved, which means, among other things, that nature types and species associated with the forest landscape must have favourable conservation status and sufficient genetic variation. Swedish forestry policy is based on the two equal goals of production and the environment. It is important that forestry measures are carried out in a long-term economically, environmentally and socially sustainable manner. The environmental code applies in parallel with the forestry legislation, as well as the regulations provided for under the environmental code, such as the species protection regulation. The provisions also apply to forestry measures. It is the responsibility of the business to comply with the legislation and the responsibilities of the supervisory authorities to comply with it. The Environmental Code entered into force on 1 January 1999. The aim of the Environmental Code is to promote sustainable development that enables present and future generations to live in a healthy and good environment. The Species Protection Regulation, which is supported by the Environmental Code, contains both provisions implementing the EU Nature Conservation Directives and purely national provisions. As an EU member, Sweden is of course keen to follow the rules agreed jointly by the EU countries. The nature conservation directives aim, in particular, to create opportunities for species and habitats to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status and to avoid measures and activities that could impair this status. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have decided on 21 June 2016 on common guidelines for the management of species protection matters in forestry. The guidelines should support both the Swedish Forest Board and the county administrative boards in dealing with cases where forestry measures concern protected species. The Government considers the guidelines to be an important step in the efforts to protect protected species in the forest. In a letter to the Government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have assessed that there is a need to investigate the Species Protection Regulation to ensure that it is applicable, effective and legally secure. The authorities note in the letter that the application of the Species Protection Regulation to forestry has been delayed. The Government has repeatedly answered questions from the Riksdag about a review of the Species Protection Regulation. The government currently has no other response than that previously announced. The question of whether to carry out a review of the Species Protection Regulation is being addressed in the Government Office. The government is following species protection issues, but I cannot, of course, comment on individual matters. In view of this, I do not intend to take any further action at the moment.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-507	Mr President, I would like to This is an interpellation written by my colleague John Widegren, who is no longer a Member of Parliament as Andreas Norlén has returned to office. Interpellation, however, is so important, because the forest and our nature are one of our really large assets – partly because it is nice to live close to nature and partly because it is an important part of building Sweden strong. The Species Protection Regulation is in many ways important. Among other things, it is important that it is working. In this situation, both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have recommended a review in their comments on the Species Protection Regulation, considering that it is not legally safe, not applicable and not effective. The Minister's answer is that it does not intend to take any further action at the moment, focusing on the preparation in the Government Office of a review of the Species Protection Regulation. Unfortunately, this answer is an answer that has been given on many occasions for a long time, so another question is: When has the Government Office ready the question? The question has been put both to the Minister for Rural Affairs and to the Minister for the Environment. As with the issue of defence, the predatory issue and so many other issues, it is quite clear that the government is keen to speak with many different tongues. I understand that it is an internal struggle between the M iljö party and the Ocial Democracy within the Government Office and that there are diametrically different opinions. I rarely worry that there is concern within the government and that the different government parties do not feel the same. Of course, I'm working to get us another government that doesn't fight, but works forward. But the problem with this is that it affects the industry and our landowners. Things happen when the Minister says in his reply that it means that habitats and species associated with the forest landscape should have a favourable conservation status. Of course, you could say that they should have. Both I and the Minister for Rural Development and I and the Minister for the Environment have discussed this sort of predatory policy and also other areas where we have parliamentary decisions that say one thing and where others think another thing and the ministers think a little differently. The Minister says in his reply that it should be long-term economically, environmentally and socially sustainable. How is it economically sustainable to lay a dead hand over productive and good land? It is, of course, an active and productive use of our land by responsible landowners who have built the natural values that we are now protecting. Now, all of a sudden, we want to protect the land from the landowners, who are basically those who have built it up. I'm worried about something. If there is something that Sweden needs, it is more growth and more environmentally good production, which we are good at. We should export it, sell it and expand it.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-513	Mr President! Thank you to my moderate colleague John Widegren, who has written this very important interpellation! Ownership is central to all functioning democracies. The State has an obligation to protect property rights. The little one should always be protected against the big one. In Sweden, no one needs to doubt that if you buy a house or a car you own this. No one can come and take it from you. When the state builds roads and the like, the state can force land upon itself. There are, therefore, exceptions to the right of ownership. These are things that we have also said over time that we think are right and reasonable. It would be impossible to build roads and railways in a country without this possibility on the part of the state. But then the individual will also be replaced. If the state pulls out electricity lines, roads or anything else, the individual is replaced for the value you lose. It's a reasonable order. When the state then points out key biotopes, which are what we are talking about here, the individual economic values are deprived. The forest you have cannot be harvested and will not be productive as it was intended. It can't be sold either. Anyone who knows anything about forestry knows that it is a long-term activity. What you plant may be harvested by the next generation or next generation. This is how forestry works: long-term management of the land you own. If you take good care of the ground, it can eventually be so good that it becomes a safe place. Then the state goes in and says: No, wait! This forest will now be preserved, and you will know from us how to manage your forest in the future. But it is still the individual landowner who, many times for generations, has taken care of the forest in a way that has made it safe. Then the state comes and says: We know a little better than you. At the same time, it also deprives people of the opportunity to sell this land, for no one is buying land that has become worth protecting and where the forest may not be harvested for long. You're not replaced for the value you lose. In a functioning society, this is not a good order. If individuals lose money, the state must replace the individual. If you don't, it can be described in a simple word: If you take something that isn't your own and doesn't pay for it, it's nothing but theft, and that's what happens to these landowners' forests. Right now, there are many concerned landowners who are considering this year whether their forest will be visited by a government representative and suddenly will no longer be able to be productive. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister if she thinks that this, that you can be deprived of economic values without receiving compensation for it, is a system that is right and reasonable. I do not think so, but the question is: What does the Minister think?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-520	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating very clearly that the information given here from me is the government's response on this issue. Point. There is no other answer on these issues. I was going to devote myself a little bit to the tone and the force expressed in this discussion. There is talk of a dead hand in the interpellation, and it says: ..................................................... Let's look at what's going on out in our woods. Every year around 60 000 logging reports are handled in Sweden. Decisions are made by authorities, in particular by the Swedish Forest Agency. In the case of these 60 000 notifications last year, some kind of conservation decision was taken, based either on the Forestry Act or the Environmental Code, in 170 of them. It may be decided to require a forest owner to show consideration in some form to a species found on the ground. It can also be a ban on killing the whole area. The most common is that it is some kind of regulation that the forest owner should show consideration. This is described here as a dead hand – 170 decisions out of 60 000. I believe that it is not proportionate to paint this as a major threat to forestry in Sweden. In a way, it feels completely unnecessary to point it out, but since this kind of power expression is used, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the government obviously shares the image that forestry is important for Sweden. It is an important industry that generates jobs, growth and economic development around the country. Of course, the government also shares the view that it is a long-term business that should have clear rules of play. I would also like to challenge what was said in the first speech that our authorities have stated that the Species Protection Regulation would not be effective and legally secure. Our authorities haven't said that. They have said that they want to see a review to ensure that it is effective and legally secure. That is something else, and what was said here before is not a proper citation of what our authorities have said. On the other hand, they have said that the application of the Species Protection Regulation is delayed, that is to say that it is not sufficiently applied and that they see a need to apply the provisions of the Species Protection Regulation more. It is likely to have to be interpreted as increasing the number of decisions taken on the basis of those provisions. That's the flaw they've identified. If that's true or not, I'll let the authorities answer for it. What we know is that seven out of ten of the red-listed species in Sweden have the forest as their home. These are species that need, above all, old forests, and therefore the government is investing heavily in increasing the formal protection where landowners receive compensation. Forest land is purchased to provide formal and long-term protection. The species will be protected for all eternity. It is a need, a job that needs to proceed. Then we also need to increase consideration in the used forest. How this is going to work, we will come back to.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-528	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karolina Skog! There are no overtones used in the speaker's chair here, but this is about one of the most basic foundations of a functioning democracy being property rights. My colleague Edward Riedl said here that if you take things without paying for them, it's stealing. This is about decommissioning land. The Minister said that out of 60 000 reported fellings, 170 decisions are taken on species protection. But then we have all the parts where we set aside productive land – land we can use and that can stimulate our growth and be good for Swedish development and for Swedish jobs and companies – and land in nature reserves and other things. Like humans, trees have a lifetime. They're planted, they grow, and they're cut down. Then new plants are planted. That's how it works. That's how it gets good, and that's how we get natural values. What we do when we put a dead hand over this is that we remove financial incentives to nurture, develop and strengthen natural values. In addition, we remove the bones not only for the landowners and their right to own but also for our development, our Swedish growth and our jobs. In this way, I think it would be a good thing if the government on this issue, which does not concern the whole but the species protection regulation and any revision of it, were to come to fruition and that it would be a decision. For quite some time now, we have been told that we do not intend to do anything to prepare the question. My simple question to the Minister is this: about how long does the Minister intend to prepare this matter before the landowners and others are given a clear indication of what the government intends to claim whether or not there is a review? That is the issue, and it is reasonable. I know that every minister speaks for the government and not for himself, but when ministers speak in different ways and with several tongues, the question is which tongue is the government's and which tongue is something else. It is important to be clear. Then I hope that clarity means that it is also a good message, but again, to make the question brief and simple: when can the government give a reply on the question of whether there will be a review? When has the question been completed in the Government Office? Is it before the election or after the election?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-533	Mr President, I would like to If you buy a car and then come home and imagine that you should be able to use the car but the government says that the car can no longer be used, two things happen. The money I have paid for the car is wasted, because what I have paid for I will not be able to use. I won't be able to sell the car either, because it can't be used. This is exactly what happens to landowners in Sweden when the state comes in after they have taken care of land for generations and have sheltered land. Then the state comes in and says that the land can no longer be used in the same way as before. The landowner is deprived of economic value for the forest. If you do not replace the people from whom you have taken these values, you will then commit an abuse in a functioning state governed by the rule of law. That is what the landowners are experiencing, and I hope that the Minister has met many of these landowners, because there are quite a few of them who have been given this information and deprived of economic values. Then the question is, Mr President: does the Minister think that anyone who gets their land seized in one way or another, and now perhaps I am using the word in its simplest form, should receive commercial compensation or not? You can, as the Minister describes, get different things or little to do with your forest in the future. I think it is stealing if you take something without paying for it, and I think that principle is very simple. The question is what the Minister thinks. We are not opposed to protecting forests, but the question is whether the state should have to pay for itself or not. Otherwise, individuals are affected.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-538	Mr President, I would like to This speech prompts me to put a number of counter-questions. A situation in which a landowner in all cases where environmental legislation restricts some form of land use would claim a right to compensation would mean a marked and revolutionary change in the land policy pursued in Sweden for a long time, regardless of governments. This would mean replacing the principle of owner's freedom under responsibility with something else, where the state goes in and assumes a much greater financial responsibility than it does now and than it has done in the past. This would mean that the line for land payments in the state budget would have to be increased enormously. It is interesting that the Moderates in the budget they have presented in the Riksdag do the opposite – cutting down, sawing s osder and emptying precisely the post in the state budget dealing with land compensation for forest owners, for example, the possibility of creating nature reserves. This government has made tremendous efforts. This term of office has been EUR 4 billion more for the possibility of buying in particularly valuable nature and protecting it forever and providing compensation to the landowners. We have done this according to the principles that have existed for a long time, but the possibility of buying in is today much, much greater than it has been under previous governments. However, the majority of Swedish forestry policy is still freedom under responsibility, and I had the view that there was something that was supported by the Swedish Parliament also on the part of the Moderates. This means that each forest owner makes its own decisions and takes responsibility for compliance with environmental and other legislation. This is one of the reasons why a logging operation must be reported to the Swedish Forest Board before it is carried out in order for the Swedish Forest Board to be given an opportunity of inspection to enter and, for example, demand consideration of a documented natural value or, in fact, sometimes, in a few isolated cases, say that no, this logging may not happen, because it is contrary to the laws that we have decided within the EU and in Sweden. In recent years there have been a number of legal cases, some of which are still ongoing, concerning the application of the Species Protection Regulation. As I described, our authorities have made a new agreement on how to apply the legislation, so the questions whether it works well are partly difficult to answer. The new arrangements agreed by the authorities have not been in practice for very long, nor do we have a full analysis of the consequences of recent judgments or pending legal cases. This, together with the fact that these are quite complex and important issues, is one of the reasons why the preparation at the Government Office takes time. It is important that we really land right.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-545	Mr President, I would like to It is well that certain policies have been conducted for a long time in Sweden. What we can see is that for a long time, although we made changes for the better in that area under the alliance government, ownership has not always been the focus, and it is important to strengthen ownership. The Minister admits in his speech that it would cost huge sums if we were to replace the landowners for the land we take from them. But if we do not replace them, we will take these enormous sums straight out of the pocket of our landowners. That's the alternative, because somewhere costs it. There are a lot more differences than one, P, between M and MP. This applies to our view of ownership, but it also applies to our view of how much land in Sweden we should put a dead hand over. There, the Green Party wants much more, which means that the huge sums of money are even more enormous. It therefore costs to vote for the Green Party on these issues, because what it means is to make productive land unproductive. This is what happens: If land that is good, land that can be cultivated, land that delivers growth, jobs and economics in Sweden, we say that no, this land should be preserved! The question is what we keep, because it is precisely the use and operation of the land that has made it so worth preserving. So let the landowners continue to cultivate, develop and manage their land in a responsible manner without us imposing a lot of regulations on them. Many thanks for the debate.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-550	Mr President, I would like to I thought I came to the House to discuss a rather simple issue, namely the application of a regulation. Then I come here and understand that the Moderates actually question the whole principle of Swedish forestry policy – freedom under responsibility – in a way that would transfer decision-making power from forest owners to the state. Even if you put it in words of ownership discussion, that is actually what would be the consequence of Moderate arguments and ways of discussing here tonight. It is also very telling to hear a moderate description of what is forest. Forest is something that is planted, grown and sown. Then I can also agree that there is a huge difference between how the government, me and the Environmental Party see the forest in Sweden. For me, and I think that a lot of Swedes share that view, they are much more than anything that is planted, growing and being cut down. Sweden has made strong and clear commitments internationally to protect Swedish nature and biodiversity and has support in this from the Swedish people. But it's not going very well. Biodiversity in Sweden today is under threat, and above all we have clear threats to forest biodiversity. We need to do more, both by formally protecting and having a sustainable use so that the forest industry can continue to develop, while protecting animals and nature in the forest. We will never achieve this with an approach that reduces forests to something that is planted, grown and sown. The forest is much more than that.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-553	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked the Minister for Infrastructure what measures he intends to take to reduce the number of cancelled cars and create incentives for the last passenger car owner to submit the car for recycling. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I am well aware of the problems caused by littering cars, and it is of course important that end-of-life cars are left to an authorised recycler. The owner of the vehicle is responsible for this. Only last November, I debated the problem of littering cars with Edward Riedl's party colleague Sten Bergheden. Many times it is the municipality that has to pay for the transport of littered cars to a car recycler. Managing abandoned cars is a complex issue that has been investigated on several occasions, most recently by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has looked at various possibilities to finance the cost of moving and caring for abandoned cars. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal is now being prepared in the Government Office. When it comes to reducing the number of cars cancelled, this is another issue, which may indirectly be linked to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal. However, the government does not intend to take any measures to limit the possibility of parking cars or other vehicles.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-558	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Just as I have described in my interpellation, and as the Minister himself points out, the increase in the number of scrap cars is a growing problem in Sweden. The problem has become so big that there are about 1.2 million cancelled cars. Of course, not all are ready for scrapping, but quite a large part of the cars have been decommissioned for more than three years. They may be presumed to belong to that group of cars that should sooner or later be taken care of. Scrap cars could be completely unproblematic if it were not because cars that stand and should be recycled destroy environmental values, and they deplete the environments where they are. There are many regulations. I'm not going into them today. I think that both I and the Minister see a lot of difficulties in getting legislation that makes car care easier. But the incentives should be developed. The incentives are today weak for the last car owner to recycle the car. Although the obligation exists, the incentives are weak. That's why many cars just stand and are not taken care of. Oil and heavy metals come into the environment from these hundreds of thousands of cars. It's just not good. What is positive is that there are fairly significant values in the metal in the cars– if they do not stand for long so that they rust. This means that there are economic incentives, if nothing else for society, to actually recycle cars. According to estimates from the Copenhagen Institute, it is a matter of a few hundreds of millions of dollars in metal values that can be recycled. There are financial incentives to recycle more cars. An increased rate of scrapping would mean quite a few thousand new jobs in the industry. There can be many benefits by addressing these issues for both the environment and jobs in the country. Mr President, I would like to Without creating a huge loan for debate, I have the following question: what does the Minister want to do in concrete terms? I have heard the answer, and I see nothing negative in it, but the question is what the Minister wants to do concretely. There are some things that can be done.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-563	Mr President, I would like to We will carefully review the proposal from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is also well known that there is a competing proposal put forward by other authorities. The Swedish Transport Agency's management has expressed support for another solution for financing car care. Both solutions are based on the idea that car owners in some form should pay a fee which can then be used to manage the concrete costs of transportation and other things. The difficult thing is that such funding under the EU acquis can be regarded as a tax. This is a legally and technically difficult issue. This is proven by the fact that several investigations and governments have looked at the issue. It may seem simple, but the law is difficult. But the ambition to find a method is clear. This is a complex issue. I want to make it clear – and I understand that this intention is on the issue – that dumping of cars is an environmental crime. Putting your car somewhere is a crime, and it's going to be prosecuted. The problem is that others often become responsible. The municipality can be the payment officer. This is a scourge for landowners. It is very frustrating to get a car dumped on their land, and it may take a lot of work to prove that the car is dumped there. There are different types of car owners. A special group of car owners is the car goalkeepers. There is reason to believe that the system of car goalkeepers is partly guilty of some of the dumped cars. It is a system that is used to simply avoid the responsibility that comes with owning a car. There, the government takes specific action. There are many reasons to deal with the problems of vehicle goaltenders. I've also been incredibly happy to read reports from my former hometown Malmö that last year they picked up – if I'm updated – 1 500 cars registered to car goalkeepers. It is a victory for the bureaucracy. The bureaucracy has triumphed over the prank. That's great. It is also important to say that there is producer responsibility in Sweden. It concerns producers to ensure that there are places to turn in their car. But it does not say anything about own ownership. It is clear that you should either set the car off in a safe place where it does not leak oil or damage the environment or should turn the car in for recycling. It's clear. I would like to ask a question about a statement in the interpellation, namely that ownership is eroded. I'm having trouble understanding. What rules undermine ownership? It is clear that dumping a car is an environmental crime. If a car is neither driven nor abandoned, the car should be handled safely so that it does not disturb the environment or other people.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-568	Mr President, I would like to My party colleague Sten Bergheden is also in the hall. The question is not new. It is not this government that has caused these problems. Many other problems you have caused, but not just this. But it is time to come up with solutions. I am clear that I am not trying to simplify the debate, Mr President. I fully understand the legal difficulties when a car is to be considered dumped and so on. It's not confrontative. It's about seeing the problems from car goalkeepers to the fact that there are a lot of cars. As I said before, 1.2 million cars have been decommissioned. A large part of the cars are ready for scrapping. We talk about hundreds of thousands of cars that should be taken to the junkyard, but that has not happened for various reasons. There we need to develop different solutions so that the cars are recycled. What happens when a car lasts for years and years is that it rusts. Then the value in the metals disappears, and it starts leaking oils and heavy metals into our soils. If there are watercourses close, it can be even more unfortunate in the worst case. How are we going to increase the incentives for the last owner to scrap the car so that it is recycled? That is where the problem lies, and that is why it does not happen. There are a lot of things that can be said about producer responsibility, among other things. A larger part of the car should be recycled. We are still faced with the concrete problem. I think we need to increase the incentives for the last car owner to turn in and recycle the car. There are different models for this. What does the Minister think? What direction would the Minister like to take? There are some investigations, and the Minister debated the issue at least six months ago. I imagine that the Minister has given some thought to what can be done. What path does the Minister think should be taken to address the problem? The existing legislation is not enough to tackle the problem. I hope we agree on that.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-574	Mr President, I would like to My view is that we share the view that this is a problem and that there is reason to do things, but that we also agree that these are difficult issues legally. This, among other things, refers to previous discussions on respect for property rights, which are, of course, a fundamental principle in these parts. We have received proposals from authorities to tackle the issue of financing – how to find a solution to take the cost of getting more cars in. That's an interesting part. It certainly does not solve the whole question, but it would be good. I very much hope that we can agree on which of the various proposed models is the best. Legal arguments are most important, such as which of them is most compatible with EU law. I do not see any ideological difference there, but it is about finding a viable model. If we do, I think we could agree in Parliament to implement it. The second part, as I said, is producer responsibility. There are changes at EU level. There are currently negotiations on overall producer responsibility within the EU, and that gives us reason to wait a little. It would not be constructive to make changes right now. Although I do not see this debate as confrontative, I would still like to question the assertion that we have eroded ownership, not least since I have gone to what I think is the same source as the interpellier. One thing that I think is relevant to highlight is that this is a report that is ordered by Bil Sweden. I have to tell you. For the sake of transparency, it is good that it emerges that Bil Sweden is actually a part of this because it represents those who are producers and have producer responsibility. That's where I perceive the quote coming from if the eroded ownership. You just throw it out without justifying it. This suggests that there is some kind of problem with producer responsibility, and when it comes from Bil Sweden I find some reason to become a little suspicious. If we are going to do something about producer responsibility, it is strengthening it so that it really leads to more cars and larger parts of cars being recycled. As mentioned here, it is a good industry that has the potential to grow. But now is the wrong time to decide if we should. It is wise first to wait for any changes from the EU's side.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-581	Mr President, I would like to Let me reply to the Minister: I referred to the report. For the sake of clarity, I told you. It is not Bil Sweden that has produced it, but it has been ordered by Copenhagen Economics. That's what I mentioned. You have the report in front of you, Karolina Skog. It's good that you've read it, too. I share the Minister's view that we should listen to all stakeholders in this. What it is ultimately about are the cars that are falling due. As I said, 1.2 million cars have been decommissioned. Much of them are end-of-life and should be recycled, i.e. scrapped. If it's too long, they'll rust. Then economic value disappears and, moreover, heavy metals, oil and other dangerous substances leak into our nature. That's where we should be trying to find solutions. I do not see the Minister as confrontative in this. What I see, for example, is an increase in the number of car goalkeepers, which is a part that undermines ownership responsibility. We haven't got to grips with that. I have tried to say it all along, Mr President, and I do so again: I have not chosen confrontation in this debate or this issue. Nor have I chosen to try to simplify it, because I know just how difficult this is. I know just how difficult it is when it comes to the law in this. But we still have the same problem, that is, these cars are falling due, and we need to find ways to deal with it. We need to listen to several stakeholders in this. There are deposit systems, which is one way to make producers pay. Consumers will get some money back when they return the car. I think the solution is there somewhere, in that the last owner gets financial incentives to recycle the car. As car goalkeepers increase in number, the problems on this issue also increase. I think the Minister also sees the problem in it.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-586	Mr President, I would like to Cars largely contain materials that can be recycled. I think it is a good thing that it is repeated and that the situation that it is not done is not given sufficient attention in this House. I would like to thank you for that opportunity. It was interesting to take note of the report, which gave me reason to read. Coping with this requires several parts. A work that has been done is what I have referred to. In 2014, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned to develop financing solutions for the disposal of abandoned end-of-life vehicles and an appropriate replacement model. After that, we have received a proposal from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and a proposal recommended by other authorities, which reflects how difficult it is. It is wise authorities that come to various conclusions. We are now looking carefully at these two models. Among other things, work is being done to compare which of them would be feasible, not least related to EU law. Another part where the government works intensively and has made some efforts and where it also works intensively municipally is the question of car goalkeepers, which is affected here. We see that the use of that model systematically conceals responsibility. Part of the work is progressing – cars owned by car keepers are seized. There's probably more to do in that part. The last is producer responsibility. There may be reason to evaluate it in the future, but we will only do so when we know what conditions the EU will set for producer responsibility in general.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-591	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what initiatives I and the government intend to take regarding the Species and Habitats Directive to enable the wolf to move from red-listed species to game hunting. Furthermore, Sten Bergheden wonders what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that questions about Swedish hunting for wolf will be decided in Sweden and not at EU level. The Species and Habitats Directive aims to contribute to ensuring biodiversity through the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora in the EU. Species that are busy in a car. 4.a of the Directive, including wolf, is strictly protected. This means that, as a general rule, the wolf must not be deliberately caught or killed in nature. Only the European Commission can propose amendments to the Directive or its annexes. In the context of its evaluation of the nature conservation directives and action plan for nature, people and industry, the Commission has indicated that it does not intend to propose any amendments to the directive. In its resolution, the European Parliament welcomed the action plan and did not call on the Commission to propose amendments to the nature conservation directives, but only to take action with the flexibility of the Habitats Directive in mind. The government considers the possibility of changing the status of the wolf within EU legislation to be excluded in the foreseeable future. Questions about Swedish hunting, however, are decided in Sweden. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall national responsibility for predator management. The work has delegated the right to decide on the protection and licensing of wolves to the county administrative boards concerned. The government does not currently intend to propose a change in this order.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-592	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer – although I think the whole answer is very passive! The European Parliament has just adopted a resolution calling on the European Commission to amend and update the Species and Habitats Directive on threatened species, which has so far made it difficult and sometimes impossible to hunt for large predators. When the desirable national level for, for example, the number of wolves is reached, hunting for wolves should not be stopped with reference to the Species and Habitats Directive, Parliament believes. Daily we see in newspapers, both local press and specialist press, how animal and dog owners and hunters suffer from wolf attacks around the country. We have decided here in Parliament that we may have a wolf tribe of 170 – 270 wolves. Today we have a wolf tribe that includes a bit more than 400 wolves. The European Parliament has now stated that the application of the Directive should be more flexible and be able to take into account the national circumstances of a Member State. The aim is to try to reduce unnecessary conflicts and problems that the Habitats Directive could otherwise cause. The European Parliament has adopted new wordings on the Directive. For example, in the case of large predators, the Habitats Directive should be applied more flexibly so that greater account is taken of when predatory problems become a threat to rural areas and our green industries. This is exactly in line with what we are actually experiencing here in Sweden. We could now take advantage of this and try to work a little more flexibly. My question to the Minister is, Mr President: why do the Minister and the Government not want to take advantage of the opening that the European Parliament is now actually beginning to sketch out and propose? This would mean that it became a reality of Sweden's ability to influence the wolf tribe and increase the hunting. I have to repeat my basic question, which was in the interpellation: is the Minister in any way prepared to work to strengthen Sweden's ability to manage its wolf tribe, pursue a necessary wolf hunt and seize the flexibility that the European Parliament is actually proposing? Does the Minister think that Sweden's influence and flexibility in managing our wolf tribe should be increased, as the European Parliament now wishes? Does the Minister think that we should go the way proposed by the European Parliament? The answer has another spirit: We can do nothing for the foreseeable time and should actually sit still in the boat. I want some sort of response from the Minister. Is that really how we should act when the European Parliament actually gives us the opportunity to increase flexibility in the interpretation of this directive?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-599	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect to Sten Bergheden, this interpellation is based on a misunderstanding. Sten Bergheden refers to a resolution in a way that is not correct. The European Parliament has not called on the Commission to review the current directive and thus does not create the kind of opening that Sten Bergheden is proposing. That is simply not what the resolution says; I have the text before me. What Parliament is doing is to note that the directive contains a flexibility as it stands today: a direct quote from the resolution is recognition of the available flexibility within the Habitats Directive. This makes it difficult, almost impossible, to answer the questions. I would only reinforce the misunderstanding if I entered into such a pseudo-discuss. The European Parliament thus notes that there is flexibility in the directive as it stands today. Parliament also welcomed the action plan drawn up by the Commission for the implementation of the directive and stressed that both the Commission and the Member States should make use of the flexibility that is currently available. This does not change the formal status of the wolf or other protected species. It is also worth repeating that decisions on hunting are made in Sweden. We have ensured from the government that they are taken regionally, closely and based on the knowledge of those who know the regions. This has created order and order in the decisions on hunting and much clearer predictability than in the past. We are therefore doing what Parliament is asking: make use of the flexibility contained in the directive.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-603	Mr President, I would like to In substance, this does not change anything, even if the Minister claims that it would not be the direction that is decided. If there is flexibility, as the European Parliament states, is my basic question: does the Minister and the government intend to make greater use of that flexibility in some way, so that Sweden can take care of its wolf tribe and its hunting in a different way to today? This is the fundamental issue and, as I see it, there is a great inaction on the part of the Minister and the Government. No, you are not going to use flexibility, you are going to continue as before. This means that the EU will still be involved in a great deal of our wolf issues and sometimes make it difficult for Sweden to manage its wolf trunk in a better way so that rural areas can develop better when it comes to keeping the wolf tribe at a reasonable level. The Minister says in his reply:"The government considers the possibility of changing the status of the wolf within EU law to be excluded in the foreseeable future. I have to ask a supplementary question about this. Will the government contribute or take the initiative to try to change this in any way during this foreseeable period? And what does the Minister and the government mean by the expression Is it for one, five or ten years or longer that the Minister and the Government feel that they are not going to try to change anything in this European directive? The Minister's and the government's answer to this question bears witness to tremendous inaction. Basically, nothing has been planned to do or change, despite the fact that the European Parliament actually says that there is flexibility in this that can be used to manage its predators better throughout Europe. They point this out, because it is not only Sweden that has problems; they see that there is an opportunity in this. My question is: Is Sweden, the government and the minister going to seize the opportunity that actually exists? I understand that this is a clear no from the Minister: we are not going to do anything in the foreseeable future, but we are going to sit still and wait. Is that understood correctly?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-608	Mr President, I would like to This discussion will be very difficult to conduct. The whole issue is based on a misunderstanding: a claim that the European Parliament should have decided something that the European Parliament has not decided and that it is passive to do what the European Parliament has not asked the Commission to do and that the Commission will therefore not do. In general, during its term of office, the Commission has done a solid job and has reviewed various legislations in a so-called review process. Among other things, the legislation we are discussing here has been reviewed. When we note that the Commission will not review this directive in the foreseeable future, it is based on the fact that the Commissioner responsible has reviewed the law and stated and announced that the Commission considers it to be fit for purpose and that it does not intend to make any changes. Only the Commission can take the initiative to review a directive like this, and they have announced that they do not intend to do so. This actually has nothing to do with how the government acts or does not. The second issue, which is in fact affected by the resolution we have adopted in the European Parliament, is a discussion which points out that there is flexibility in today's directive and calls on the Member States to use it. It is a flexibility that is about adapting decisions to regional differences. In Sweden we have organized decisions on hunting so that they are taken at regional level by people who know the region and have knowledge, adapted to the region's conditions.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-614	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But one question remains: is there any will on the part of the government and the minister to work to take advantage of this flexibility? The Minister has described what we have done so far in Sweden. Then my follow-up question is: Is there any further will to use the flexibility of Swedish wolf policy to make it easier for the green industries in rural areas, or is the Minister and the Government satisfied and does not intend to take any steps to further try to make it easier for the countryside and the green industries in terms of the wolf policy that exists around the country?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-615	Madam President, I would like If I came to Parliament and presented an interpellation based on a misunderstanding, I would be very humble. There are a lot of myths circulating in the wolf debate. This kind of misunderstanding is not the first one I face. It is also quite common to refer to decisions in Brussels – which are mysteriously far away – which in fact are not entirely correct. We have a common European policy on species protection. I and the government consider that to be a good order. This is important, not least because species do not know national borders and so we can take joint responsibility for species protection within the EU and have a harmonised policy in this regard. I and the government consider this to be a good order. On the other hand, we also believe that it is important that decisions on applications, including decisions on hunting, be taken at regional level. During this term of office, the government has established good order and order in the decisions on hunting. We have left behind a period of conflict and unpredictability and a good order, where decisions on hunting for, among other things, wolf are taken regionally. We've been controlling those parts. We have also steered court proceedings in the case of appeals, for example. It has created much better predictability. The authorities also follow the status of the wolf. There are concerns. There are quite a good number of wolves, but there are serious concerns about the wolf's health status, especially its genetics. We need to follow this closely so that we can have a viable wolf strain in Sweden.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-619	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me, on the one hand, whether I intend to take the initiative to introduce environmental sanctions in the field of chemicals and, on the other hand, whether I intend to take other measures to reduce the use of dangerous chemical substances by means of national legislation. Effective sanctions, whether they are penalties or environmental sanctions, are important tools for protecting human health and the environment and for maintaining the credibility of sanctioning systems. The system of environmental sanctions has proved to be working well, and it contributes to the compliance of those who are required to comply with the regulations. In short, in many cases fines are more effective than penalties. However, high efficiency must be balanced against a high level of legal certainty. Where a penalty is to be replaced by a penalty fee, legal certainty shall not be waived. This assessment must be taken seriously and therefore requires time and accuracy. The Government has on several occasions initiated legislative changes aimed at improving the effectiveness of the environmental code's sanctioning system. The most recent example is the directives for the environmental inspection investigation. Much suggests that it is not only breaches in the field of chemicals that would be better dealt with in the system of environmental sanctions. This applies to a number of areas within the scope of the environmental code. In view of this, a comprehensive approach should be taken and less intervention should be avoided which could create confusion and fragmentation of sanctioning systems. The environmental inspection investigation is the first step in the work that has now begun to further refine and streamline sanctioning systems. The chemical field is one of the issues that will be addressed in that work. Jens Holm has also asked me about other measures to reduce the use of dangerous chemical substances by means of national legislation. The government has taken a series of measures in those areas where it is possible to legislate nationally, that is to say those areas where we do not have common fully harmonised legislation within the EU. We are currently working mainly in four areas: microplastics in cosmetic and chemical products, hazardous substances in construction products, PFAS in fire-extinguishing foam and private use of plant protection products. I wish I could have said that we had ended up with these proposals. But even this work takes time for the results to end up being good.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-627	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with relatively high ambitions in the environmental field, and we shall continue to be. An important part of this is how we regulate chemicals. It is not just about legislation on chemicals. It is also about the fact that we must actually ensure that the laws are complied with. If this does not happen, we risk having products on the market that may contain chemicals that can cause hormonal disturbances in children, that there are unauthorised pesticides in food production, or that there are products that can cause serious diseases, cancers, behavioural disturbances or environmental problems. Here we must ensure that the laws are complied with. We have authorities who work hard and persisted in this. I am thinking in particular of our chemical inspection. The chemical inspectorate is really out on the ground and tackles the problems you see. The Swedish Chemicals Agency has made 664 notifications of suspected environmental crimes in the chemical field between 2012 and 2015. What has happened to these notifications? Yes, 87% of the notifications have only been closed. They have not led to any action by police and prosecutors. The Chemicals Inspectorate proposes another system, which the Minister for the Environment also commented, namely that one should be able to issue a sanction fee directly for those who violate our regulations in the field of chemicals. Then I would like to emphasise that fines can be appealed. It is an entirely legal system. We apply fines in a variety of other areas, not least within the supervision of our municipalities. At least that's where it works as far as I know. The advantage of imposing a sanction fee, as the Minister for the Environment said in his reply, is that it is probably a much more effective system than we now have. This is likely to increase confidence in the whole system when there is a direct reaction to those who violate our chemicals and environmental laws. That is why, Madam President, I am a little disappointed and surprised by the Minister's comments: that legal certainty must be fully taken into account and that this is not something that can be done simply. Then I would like to emphasise that this is entirely a legal instrument. This is something that has been proposed by the responsible authority, and it has been investigated. I do not understand why the Minister seems so hesitant and why the Minister wants to investigate this further. We have concrete proposals to change sanctions, and we can ensure that we have a much better and more effective system than we have today.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-633	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Jens Holm for bringing these important questions to Parliament's Chamber. It is extremely important that we have a follow-up and effective application of the legislation adopted by Parliament. We have, as Jens Holm says, strong environmental legislation and not least a strong regulation of chemical use in Sweden. From the government we have increased the possibilities of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. They have more money and can hire more people. They're out picking up products that are on the market and investigating them. Unfortunately, they find all too often banned and dangerous substances in products that are available in ordinary shops and that we take with us to our homes. They'll press charges. It is not enough that it so much leads to an effective measure. Of course, serious companies take this in as a response and review their routines. But we in the government or we as politicians cannot be satisfied with that. Then there is the idea of doing what is called a change of sanction: changing from punishment to environmental sanctions. I want to make it very clear that I have no doubt whatsoever about environmental sanctions as an instrument. The doubts that exist relate to the chapter that regulates this: Chapter 29. in the environmental code. That has changed many times. We have already been criticised by the OECD, among other things, for the fact that this chapter is difficult to understand. It's just getting a little bit of a patchwork. It is a problem for the rule of law. The investigation I mentioned has therefore proposed a major review of these issues. It is then, unfortunately, another investigation. You might think that's slow. However, the first investigation has concluded that such work will involve complex assessments and be comprehensive and that a new investigation is required. This proposal has been consulted. The period of referral expired on 8 January this year. Many consultation bodies are in favour of the proposal that we should set up a new investigation that only looks at the proposal made by Jens Holm: to switch from punishment to environmental sanctions. This applies not only to chemicals but also to wider areas in order to achieve a more effective application of the environmental code as a whole. So this is something that we have just received into the Government Office. But the reason we set up the investigation in the first place was because we wanted to increase efficiency. I can therefore make it clear that we are doing this in a positive spirit, not least on the basis of the positive reactions we have received from the consultation bodies. I am in favour of the idea that we can make better use of environmental sanctions, but at the moment the proposal on our table is that we should do this in a broader sense through a new investigation.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-639	Madam President, I would like It was good to get that clarification from the Minister for the Environment: that environmental sanctions are a completely legal system and probably a more effective system than we have today in the field of chemicals. As I said earlier, this is something that not least our municipalities use day-to-day. Our municipalities have significantly increased the use of penalties in the environmental field. It could be said that this has doubled in less than ten years. At the municipal level, more than 2,700 fines were issued in 2015. That procedure is completely legal and works relatively well. I think it is a good thing that the Minister for the Environment is in favour of the proposal that I and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate have made. This ensures that we can have more effective management. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples of incorrect handling of chemicals. It is a treatment that not only affects our health, our children's health and the environment. It also affects all those companies that read the laws carefully and follow everything to the letter – those companies that simply want to do the right thing. They're being hit, because there's going to be a bad competition. That is why I think it is important not to put this down. I think the government has a bad habit, Madam President, of investigating issues that are perhaps inconvenient internally in the government or about which there are conflicting opinions. I think that the government must come to the fore on this issue. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: when can we see a concrete proposal for a change of sanctions, whereby the Chemicals Inspectorate and other authorities can issue fines instead of pushing relatively limited cases of bad practices in the field of chemicals to a public court? When do we get a concrete proposal for a change of sanctions to take a position on? I want to know.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-642	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat some of what has happened so far. The government has set up an environmental inspection investigation – it was a broad investigation that looked at the environmental inspections in Sweden. We did this on the basis that we saw the need to streamline environmental inspections. That investigation put forward the proposal for a wide-ranging exchange of sanctions. This applies to all areas of activity in Chapter 29. in the environmental code. It was noted that this needs to be done in a holistic way. I believe that this is a strict legal assessment on the part of the investigation, which in no way has to do with any political balance. That's the assessment of the investigation. This has been out for a referral. The referral period lasted until 8 January this year. It's just finished. We have received positive reactions from a lot of referrals – several courts, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, district courts and the Swedish Police Authority. In their referral, the Swedish Chemicals Agency says that they think it is a good idea to do a broader and larger investigation, a special sanction investigation. This is what has happened most recently, in January of this year. Now, as always, we will properly compile the referrals, analyse this and decide how we should proceed. But the intention is clear: V i needs a better application of the environmental code. This is particularly urgent in the field of chemicals. But we'll do it in good order. And there is a need for an investigation, as many referrals have pointed out. Of course, it can be sad to be a politician who repeats that we need an investigation. But when it comes to legislation, it is the way we work. This is how we produce new legislation in Sweden. And the revision of an entire chapter of the environmental code is not a small but a big issue. And the assessment made so far is that it takes a new investigation, so that it gets properly done. In parallel with this, we are working on the other parts that Jens Holm asked about, including the possibility of using national legislation to ban more dangerous substances in our everyday lives. These are substances found in construction products, substances used for spraying in gardens and substances used in fire-extinguishing. We are actively using the legal opportunities we have to ensure that all people are confident that the products they buy in the store are safe and that what they take home and put in their children's hands is safe. We are not satisfied with what it's like today but need to work much more to handle all the new, old and well-known chemicals that exist in our environment. I understand that the government and Jens Holm are in complete agreement on that ambition.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-649	Madam President, I would like With regard to the latter, on how the government works in the field of chemicals, I think what the Minister mentions in his reply is good. I would add that I think the government can be tougher on Brussels. You can fight more chemicals. For example, they can be driven as far as the European Court of Justice. Sweden has done so before, with some success. You have to stand on both sides – regulate here in Sweden and also fight when we know that Europe is dragging its legs and simply is not doing what they are supposed to do. Once again, I welcome the fact that the Minister and I agree that fines can be a better and more effective procedure than passing the penalty. As I understand it, a proposal should be made, following an investigation, on penalties in the field of chemicals, but probably also in other areas. I think that's good. I want to flag, however, so that you don't let the best become the enemy of the good. Another way could also be envisaged, to cut off the chemical area and present the proposal to that area, and then to investigate the other further. I have one final concrete question for the Minister. Will there be in the investigation that the Minister is likely to propose to the investigators an actual mission to produce concrete proposals for a change of sanctions? It should therefore be easier for the authorities to impose sanctions rather than go the way of punishment, as it is now. Will there be concrete proposals for that, or should it just be a general investigation again?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-654	Madam President, I would like The proposal we have received from the Environmental Inspections investigation is that a change of sanctions should be introduced, and the investigation notes that it needs to be done through another, narrower, investigation. The starting point is that such work will involve complex assessments, be comprehensive and that an own investigation is needed. There are good reasons to look at the full application of cap. 2 9. I understand that the intention is to find efficiency, which is exactly what Jens Holm is asking for. A background to caution is that we have received criticism, including from the OECD, that the inefficiency of our environmental policy is due, among other things, to the fact that there have been too many small changes in legislation so far and that it has in itself created problems. It is a criticism that I take very seriously and something that we need to take into account when finding the way forward. Clearly, there is reason to increase the effectiveness of the application of our environmental code. For that we need to do many things. Some of what we have already done is to strengthen the authorities and their ability to be out looking for dangerous products so that we can get more information. It will be a basis they can use to propose stronger legislation or to act on their own. Another part is to use our legislation to ban. Of course, we should also lie on in Brussels. We have, at least twice, notified the European Commission, and we are using the European Court of Justice as the tool it actually is.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-659	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Warborn has asked me what I and the government have done to combat pirated goods and services on the Swedish market and what further measures I intend to take to reduce piracy. The government is taking action against all stages of the illegal supply chain to reduce both supply and demand for counterfeit products. Both increased knowledge and sharper tools against intrusion are important here. To prevent the manufacture of pirated products, we work bilaterally. Not least, we influence developing countries through the training of policy-makers that PRV conducts with the support of Sida and is now expanding. At home, the knowledge of private individuals and companies needs to be increased. If we understand that counterfeit products can be dangerous and that the business is pulling away the foundations of future jobs, I am convinced that few want to support such activities. PRV has therefore been tasked with raising the awareness of companies so that they do not sell counterfeit goods, advertise on sites with illegal material or otherwise support infringement activities. The process has already started in many companies, thanks, among other things, to the code of conduct resulting from the government's round table in the area of copyright. The Government has also commissioned the National Media Council, the PRV and the Swedish Authority's Anti-piracy Network to inform consumers. Recently, the Government Network issued a press release on how to avoid counterfeits in the Christmas trade. The press release was very effective. I know that several information campaigns are under way. In addition, PRV will launch a website for legal alternatives. In addition, we sharpen the tools to be able to intervene against those who provide pirated products in Sweden. We are investigating stricter penalties for the most serious infringements, and the Government Office is currently preparing proposals in a report on more modern rules for seizure and search. In the spring, we will also propose, in a proposal, that it be possible for the Finnish Customs to intervene against and destroy forgery of national trade marks crossing the country, just as already applies to EU trade marks.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-666	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing the Government a really merry Christmas. It may seem a little delayed, but the background is that I submitted the interpellation already on November 15. As I describe it in the interpellation, it is about the Christmas trade and the great risk of copied goods. So a really merry Christmas to the Government and excuse the fact that it's a little late! This is a problem for both consumers and producers. For the consumer, it is perhaps a problem mainly from a health perspective. There it can have the worst effects. If a family in the Christmas shop buys toys that are not of sufficient quality and not the standard of Swedish, European and international companies but are copied in a bad way, the toys can collapse and children can choke on the parts or the like. Similar cases exist in the pharmaceutical field where there are a lot of pirated drugs. At best, the medicine may not work at all, but in the worst case, someone needs the medicine to stay alive. So this is a really serious and big problem. This is also a problem for producers. This means that companies lose their sales. They get worse reputation because consumers may think they are using the real company's product. As a result, the sales of the producers are further reduced. This can result in the companies playing on the right side of the playing field losing jobs and revenues. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise produced a report in 2015. All stock exchange companies in Sweden were asked how widespread the problem really is. It turned out that all the companies interviewed claimed that they had been subject to intellectual property infringements. Of these companies, 75% felt that counterfeiting could pose a risk to health and safety – three quarters of these companies testify to this. 73 percent thought it had increased over the past five years, and 80 percent thought it would increase even more over the next five years. Eighty per cent of companies considered the state's efforts to combat intellectual property infringements and piracy to be insufficient. It is believed that the government should do more. I believe that this problem will continue to increase, as indicated in the report. Perhaps 10 to 20 years ago it was a market. Swedes went abroad and perhaps bought a bag or sweater that was pirated. But now all this trade is taking place on the Internet, and it's just increasing all the time. You have the world as a market. I welcome the government's efforts in this area. Unfortunately, however, I think it is inadequate. When we have this debate again in a year's time and follow up on the Christmas trade in 2018, we will see that we have actually seen an increase in the number of copies. I asked two questions in my interpellation: what has the government done, and what will it do in the future? My follow-up question, of course, is: does the Government consider these efforts to be sufficient?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-676	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Jörgen Warborn for the interpellation. It's incredibly important and valuable. Then I regret that I was unable to answer it before Christmas because it is very much concerned with the Christmas trade. I'm in Parliament as often as I can. Only tonight I have the pleasure of answering five interpellations. What you could possibly say about your interpellation is that it is unfortunately as current after Christmas as it was before Christmas. I fully share your description of the problem. It is therefore important for me to be able to report the work of the government in this area. We need intensive work in order to better intervene against those who provide counterfeit products. Some examples were given in the debate, and there are many more. As far as the government is concerned, it is a matter of reviewing the scale of penalties for the most serious infringements. It is also a question of carefully following the criminal investigations that are being carried out and drawing experience from them. We have set up an investigation that looks at the issues and will submit its work on 15 February. Of course, I look forward to receiving that investigation and working on the issues. We are hoping for a bill as early as next year. I note that we agree on the starting point that our industries – not least our cultural and creative industries – should have the best conditions to grow. That is why the fight against those who do not respect rights is incredibly important. The problems described are essentially international. Then it is not easy to solve it at national level. The government therefore takes every opportunity to influence other countries as well through bilateral consultations in all the decision-making rooms where it is possible to bring these issues forward. The Ministry of Justice, which is the department in which I work, has recently met a Chinese delegation and described the problems that Sweden sees with piracy. In a conversation you have put forward what you can do together to reduce the problem. Only in December, we received confirmation from business representatives in Sweden that the EU Intellectual Property Office feels that China's management has in many ways changed its attitude to these issues and takes the problems of piracy very seriously. This is a development in the right direction. It's gonna take a long time. But we also believe that China's changed attitude is due to the fact that it has now developed to such a level that one sees its own need for these rights to be protected if one is to function well in a market. That was an example. Sweden is making extensive efforts in the development work. We also have several cooperation agreements. That is what we have with India – to name another example. If we are to bring about a change in this area, we must raise our eyes and see that we are part of a much larger context, an international context.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-685	Madam President, I would like I'm glad we share the problem description. It makes it easier to come up with good measures. I regret to say that these measures are not enough. More tools will probably have to be used in the toolbox to deal with the problem in the long term. Education in developing countries is great. There were a number of countries mentioned, and there are some others on that list. It would have been interesting to hear from the Government how effective these efforts are in the long term. A number of examples were given, including China. I'm glad to hear that. The round table talks mainly concern the copyright issue, i.e. the sitting that the government has had with, among other things, the film industry, telephone operators and other creative industries. This is good. The problem is that, unfortunately, not everyone thinks it has turned out well enough, so not everyone has joined in continuing to be in the talks or cut off under the documents. There's more to do there. Strengthened penalties for law enforcement offences and the investigation that is expected to come soon is great. I have debated this with Morgan Johansson several times. I am very pleased that the government has joined the line that we in the Moderates have taken. The fact that the Swedish Customs is able to intervene against and destroy counterfeits is also great. But again: I think that this is unfortunately too inadequate. I have a number of suggestions, some that the Moderates have put forward. I would like to hear from the Government whether it is something that one might consider working on. The Government itself mentioned what an international problem this is. Then it is important to be involved in the international forums where these things are discussed. There is within the EU a special forum for this called The EU Policy Cycle for Organized and Serious International Crime. There are some who work with piracy. If I have understood it correctly – please correct me if I am wrong – Sweden does not participate in the cooperation concerning piracy. I think it is extremely central for Sweden, because we are dependent on intellectual property protection both today and, above all, in the future. I believe that this problem will increase, and Swedish companies are increasingly relying on intellectual property rights. In the case of copyright offences, it should be looked at whether it would be subject to criminal liability to pass on payments to those who illegally make copyrighted material available. So you should follow the money and try to strangle the cash flow to these companies. This could be done, for example, by means of a legislative proposal. As far as the patent issue is concerned, we should look at and simply investigate the extent to which Swedish patents are being infringed in other countries. We are not really in control of that. My question in this speech is: how does the Government view supplementing the Government's list of measures with regard to some of the proposals I have mentioned today? Again, I believe that the government's own measures will be inadequate.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-696	Madam President, I would like Of course, I welcome all the proposals both in this debate and in the context where we have reason to proceed with proposals. Without evaluating them more than that today, I would like to say that a variety of measures are needed to address the problem raised in the interpellation. Jörgen Warborn also mentioned the EU in his speech. As this, as I stated in my previous speech, is very much an international issue, it is also a very European issue. In this context, I would like to mention a new regulation for consumer protection cooperation in the European Union, which we have just negotiated. As a result, enforcement cooperation between Member States is strengthened. This means that misleading advertising regarding, for example, the authenticity of the goods is something that can be tackled more effectively than before. This is an example. Today, it can be said that intellectual property is largely harmonised at EU level. This is why, many times, EU law is crucial to the way in which Swedish legislation is both designed and applied. If we are to be involved in influencing the content of this intellectual property law, it is important that we do so at European level in negotiations in Brussels. The government is putting a lot of effort into this work. In some cases, we have had to wait for the European Court of Justice's ruling on these issues. However, when legislative acts at EU level are then in place, the national scope for legislative solutions becomes clearer. It may then be limited to being included in the common EU legislation. I know that there may be comments on this, but it can be said that the provisions have been drafted almost literally following the corresponding provisions of EU law. All in all, it gives us greater opportunities to intervene against, for example, what we call streaming from an illicit source. This has also been clarified by the European Court of Justice. In many cases, it is application that we can use in various ways to focus on these issues. At all, we should focus on accessing those who make the material available for example for streaming or on informing consumers in order to reduce demand for such materials. This is an important part, along with the other measures that I have mentioned earlier in the interpellation debate. It goes without saying that rightholders should be paid for their work. You should not be able to exploit or stream from sites that offer movies, computer games and books without permission. It's supposed to be based on permits and rights.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-704	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government on the last. I have also debated the issue with various ministers a few times. I thought that the Government now gave a very clear and good answer on this, that is to say that it should be forbidden to stream from an illegal source. It is not in the legislation today. At least I don't think that's the case. It is rather uncertain what it is like. It is definitely illegal to download from an illegal source, but when it comes to streaming it is perhaps allowed today. It is great that the Government is clear about this. I hope that we can close the gap in legislation that exists. The legislation has not really been in place here. In the old days they downloaded, and nowadays they stream. The Government is happy to comment on how she intends to proceed with this particular issue so that we can resolve it. I think it's a little too easy for you to say that everything is international. The government did not claim that everything was international, but that much was. I think some are. There are things we can do in Sweden too. The scale of penalties is a matter, but it is not just a matter of the scale of penalties itself. It is about giving police and prosecutors opportunities and other tools, which I think is good. It is also a question of the industry itself taking action. It is also about communication efforts, such as those now made by other PRVs. All these areas need to be tightened up and speeded up. This is also meant in the report by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Greater political attention is needed to these issues. Intellectual property-intensive companies account for 30 percent of all jobs in Sweden, 40 percent of Sweden's total GDP and 90 percent of all exports. This is therefore a very important issue. Finally, I would like to thank the Government for the debate. It is a first debate we have had on this issue. I don't think it's the last one.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-711	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by returning my thanks. I think this debate is very valuable. This is a major issue that we are likely to have reason to come back to. In my concluding remarks, however, I would like to mention very briefly the consumer perspective. It is important that we constantly work with people's attitudes on these issues. I thought the interpellant was into it in his interpellation before the Christmas shop that was then going on. In this, too, we must ensure that we provide knowledge and information so that the consumer is aware of the issues when he comes to the store, buys online or how he is now buying his goods. The Government has given a commission to the Swedish Media Council, PRV and the Swedish Government Network to carry out information campaigns against both companies and the public. I'm sure it's necessary. According to ECC Sweden, which is part of the Swedish Consumer Agency, many consumers do not know if they are buying pirated goods and that they are thus exposed to risks. They also do not know what underlying activities they support. I think we can never get too much information in this regard. There must be a constant update on what is actually on the market. I welcome the continuation of the debate. I hope, of course, that we can look forward to next year's Christmas trade and that we have increased opportunities to get to grips with these issues.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-717	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen has asked me how I view the criticism that has been levelled at the age assessment of asylum seekers' unaccompanied minors and whether I intend to take any initiative to meet the criticisms that have been levelled at the age assessment of unaccompanied minors in asylum seekers. The question of whether an asylum seeker is under or over 18 years of age is important – not least when it comes to housing and care, but also for the issue of residence permits. The government has therefore already taken a number of measures to improve the process of age assessments and medical age assessments. In the asylum process, it is the applicant who has the burden of proof, and it is only required that the applicant makes his or her identity, including age, likely. It is a lower requirement of proof than in other migration cases. The right of asylum also applies to a specific rule of proof, namely the principle of the advantage of the case – in English, the benefit of the double. Many asylum seekers can make their identity including age likely without medical age assessment, for example through passport and other identity documents or other evidence. However, it is important for confidence in the asylum process that there is, if necessary, an opportunity to offer the applicant an opportunity to undergo a medical age assessment in cases where the applicant has not been able to make his or her age likely in other ways. In practice, the system of medical age assessments had long since ceased to work, and it has therefore been important for the government to find a system for their implementation. The Government therefore commissioned the National Board of Forensic Medicine, in cooperation with the Finnish Immigration Service, to design a system for medical age assessments, and one of these is now in place since spring 2017. The Finnish Immigration Service announced on 18 February 2017 that the agency was waiting to make decisions in cases where an age adjustment could be considered. According to the agency, this was necessary in the transition phase to medical age assessments under the direction of the Forensic Medicine Agency, something that was imminent, and had nothing to do with any flaws, which Christina Höj Larsen wishes to claim. The Government demands that the methods for medical age assessments should be based on research and proven experience and that the system should be legally secure. The National Board of Forensic Medicine never pronounces itself with more certainty than scientific methods allow. Today, there is no method of medical age assessment that can accurately determine a person's age. The medical age assessment is based on examinations of two different body parts, namely wisdom teeth and knee joints, whose stage of development is assessed by two independent dentists and doctors respectively. On the basis of these investigations, a medical examiner at the National Board of Forensic Medicine produces a statement describing on a three-step scale the probability of a person being over or under 18 years of age. Even the Finnish Immigration Service's final assessment in cases where an age adjustment becomes relevant only focuses on whether the person is at least 18 years of age. An asylum seeker whose age has been adjusted to an adult in connection with a refusal decision may appeal the decision rejecting the asylum application to the Migration Court. The Government has previously commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to deepen the knowledge of magnetic imaging as a method for medical age assessments. The assignment shall be coordinated with the work carried out within the framework of the mandate given to the National Board of Forensic Medicine to carry out medical age assessments and shall be reported by 31 May 2018. In conclusion, these are, including the choice of methods for medical age assessments, assessments made by the authorities in accordance with applicable procedural safeguards, research and proven experience.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-726	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Before starting the real debate, let me remind you that what we are talking about today is not knee joints or wisdom teeth, but real young people. Some of them are under 18 years old, others over. We are fortunate that very many are now sitting in the gallery listening. I would like to assure you that we are fully aware that there are people with dreams, fears and hopes we are talking about today and nothing else. A yes is a yes and a no is a no. This is often said by the Minister for Migration when it comes to decisions on asylum applications. It may seem logical and simple. But reality is not quite that simple. Above all, this uncertainty of a yes or a no presupposes that there has been a legal certainty process in which the asylum seeker has obtained legal certainty and his or her rights satisfied a during all stages of the process. Already two months ago, when I submitted this interpellation, there was a sharp criticism of the new methods of age assessment designed by the National Board of Forensics. Now, two months later and after Svenska Dagbladet's extensive review, the criticism is nothing less than massive from both Swedish and international experts, from medical practitioners and other healthcare professions, as well as from organisations working with children's rights and asylum law. I will not be able to explain in detail all the criticisms that have been made, but I would like to sum up a little bit what this is all about. First, the knee joint method is new and not sufficiently studied and reviewed. It has also proved to have very large margin of error. Secondly, as UNICEF has pointed out, there is a lack of a comprehensive overall assessment of psychosocial factors and children's medical skills. Thirdly, it is the case that the benefits of the double, which means that, in the event of doubt, an assessment is made to the advantage of the applicant, are not actually applied, which is in breach of the EU Asylum Procedure Directive. In plain language, Madam President, this means that the system that the government has been so eager to put in place right now is jeopardising children's rights. I'll explain what I mean by that. The results of age assessments have been reviewed. The error rate is 19 for boys, as confirmed by the German experts involved in developing this method. For girls, the error rate is 68, so the assessment has now been paused. In 17 of the 20 cases where second opinion has been made, the result has been contrary to what has been done by RMV. One of the Swedish medical examiners who was previously part of the Swedish National Board of Forensic Medicine's working group says that the margin of error can be as large as 30 percent for boys. That is a very high figure. Assuming that 30% of the assessments are incorrect for those who have been assessed as over 18 after knee X-rays alone, some 1 000 children may have been wrongly recorded and assessed as adults so far. In addition, there is also a margin of error for those assessed on the basis of dental X-rays. That is why, and many others, I wonder how the Minister views the serious criticism that has been levelled at age assessments, not least in recent days. What does the Minister intend to do to prevent this from going on?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-734	Madam President, I would like I thank Christina Höj Larsen for the interpellation. I should like to make a clear statement at the outset. Of course, this is about people, just as very many matters and interpellations in the Swedish Parliament do. I would also like to say – if there is any doubt about it – that I have the greatest respect both for asylum seekers and for those who are committed to asylum seekers. It is of course a huge burden for those who are involved in an asylum process in many different ways with the backgrounds that people often have when they come to Sweden. This also applies to the stressful time that people have to wait for a message in Sweden. I hope that in the debate, Christina Höja Larsen, there is the same and corresponding respect for the work that many well-trained socionomists and employees at the Migration Agency and other government agencies do every day to take an active part in the asylum process, for example. It's about respect in both of those parts. Then perhaps we can take away some of the high tone of the debate. The right to seek asylum is fundamental. Anyone seeking asylum in Sweden must face a legal review. The whole purpose of the asylum process is to investigate whether the applicant is in need of international protection. It is the Finnish Immigration Service and the Migration Courts that, after an individual examination in each individual case and on objective grounds, must decide whether there is a basis for a residence permit. In the context of such a review, it is necessary to assess and examine all evidence in the case. In those situations, it may also be a matter of assessing a person's identity, including whether the person is a child or an adult. What is sometimes forgotten in the general debate, and which I think I also hear from Christina Höj Larsen, is that the very purpose of the asylum examination is to examine the issue of international protection, i.e. whether the individual risks persecution or other inhumane treatment when returning to his home country. The assessment of identity, including age, is only part of this work. This is the part that the government in various ways over the years has commissioned to improve and develop. I welcome what Christina Höj Larsen calls serious criticism. I always welcome a debate. It now concerns medical age assessments and even, although it is not the government's responsibility, the choice of methods. There is a professional debate and a debate with citizens, stakeholders and stakeholders. It's basically very good for our society. It shows that we have a legal test.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-740	Madam President, I would like It makes a difference whether someone is over 18 years old or not, both during the asylum process and also in the assessment. That is why we are discussing this issue. I absolutely have the utmost respect for everyone who does their job. The essence of the debate is that the choice of the methods of age assessment now being criticised is the result of a political order from the government. It became clear not least when the Forensic Medicine Agency Elias Palm was interviewed in Svenska Dagbladet on 13 December 2017. I now quote Elias Palm :中 If you read our government mission, it is clear that we are expected to contribute to the fact that adults are not placed with children in Swedish accommodation for children. And that resources intended for children should not go to adults. Because of this, we have not been able to make a method choice based on the fact that a child should absolutely never be misjudged as an adult. If you had that entrance, I'm sure we'd have made a different method. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like If we had that entrance, I'm sure we'd have made a different method. Elias Palm repeated the same thing in Sunday's Agenda. The National Board of Forensic Medicine's choice of method has thus been made on the basis of the Government's mandate. That's where the focus is clear. The most important thing is that no adults live in accommodation for children and that no resources for children go to adults. Madam President, I would like There is not a word about the importance of children never losing their children's rights, that children should not live on accommodation for adults and that children should never risk being judged as adults and expelled. They don't say a word about it. Instead, the government rejects the criticism of age assessments by claiming that the benefit of the double, i.e. judging in favour of the applicant, should be used. Unfortunately, however, we see that it does not work that way in reality. Medical age assessments have serious margins of error. Nevertheless, it is usually only those and not the other information that speaks for a lower age, such as documents from the home country or statements from social services or schools, that are used. It is therefore not assessed in the applicant's favour. Madam President, I would like This means that you have chosen methods that are not primarily safe according to science and proven experience, but methods that will give the answers that the government wants. If you wanted something else, you would have chosen another method, as Elias Palm said. The government, which Minister for Migration Heléne Fritzon represents, wants to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. I know that the Minister for Migration himself, as municipal councillor in Kristianstad, pushed all of the municipality's decisions to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But as a minister, the Minister for Migration apparently accepts a completely reversed order from a child's perspective. It is a system in which children's rights weigh more easily than the government's migration policy signals. Madam President, I would like My question then is: how many children's rights is the government prepared to sacrifice? Up here in the gallery are some of those who are affected and whose children's rights have become part of a political game. Is it reasonable for 1 000 children to be misjudged as adults, relocated to adult housing, locked into detention, and, at worst, forced to expel them to the Afghanistan of war and terror? Surely it cannot be the case that a government that wants to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child easily throws away children's rights? What does the government intend to do to ensure that no child loses his or her children's rights when assessing his or her age?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-750	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Christina Höja Larson for this debate. Sometimes the government is in a hurry. Some laws, some changes, some regulations and some regulations are to come and go very quickly. There was a hurry with border controls, ID requirements and new migration laws and a great hurry with the High School Act. One can certainly think that decisions need to be made quickly. But the expression fast but wrong exists for a reason. If you're in a hurry, you don't have time to go through everything. You don't have time to look at all the eventualities and consequences. It is precisely with regard to migration and refugee policy that much has changed in a very short time. The conditions for authorities have changed in a short time. When conditions change, time is needed for conversion. It is time that neither the authorities nor those involved in the process, in this case asylum seekers, have been given. We see this not least when we have some retroactive laws. Why was there such a crazy rush? Was it not aware that this kind of criticism would come? Now we have almost a debate on research policy, not least in the media. As a Liberal, I do not think that this is completely stupid. I'm glad we're discussing research. But did this not be taken into account when drawing up the proposals? There's a mission with the National Board of Health and Welfare. You need to deepen your knowledge of magnetic imaging. It shall be reported on 31 May. What do you do from the government if the method is wrong with this or so many percent, with this or so many people or with this or so many months? What about the assessments that have already been made? Are they going to be redone? Should we have a re-examination of the decisions that have not been implemented? This is indeed about the rule of law. It has been said many times in previous debates and in this too. Does the Government really think this is legal certainty? Does the Government really think that there will be legal certainty when you let the investigations go on and wait for the evaluation? I wonder, as I said, what will be done when the assessment and evaluation comes if it turns out that this is a wrong method?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-756	Madam President, I would like Let me start in the latter part. Christina Örnebjär from the Liberals asks me why was it so urgent? The background is that during the time of the then bourgeois government, in the summer of 2012, a legal position was made on age assessments. However, it turned out that there was no organisation for carrying out medical age assessments. There were no health facilities, and an organization needed to be built. The system of medical age assessments in Sweden had thus effectively ceased to work. After 2015, I do not think anyone in the Swedish Parliament has noticed that we then received 163 000 asylum seekers in Sweden and over 35 000 unaccompanied children and young people. Since 2015, it has made enormous demands on Sweden. Therefore, since spring 2017, there has been a system for medical age assessments. Obviously, I have to be very clear about one thing, so I will be: The government has made demands on the National Board of Forensics to use methods based on research and proven experience and that the system should be legally secure. These are the three parts that the government has demanded. The government has not chosen the method, but it is the authority that chooses which method to use. It should be experts and professionals who do so, but the whole thing should be based on research and proven experience and be legally sure. It does not differ from most areas of health care today, but these requirements are constantly recurring in what then becomes the professional's method choice. There is therefore no difference in this part. Sweden is not alone in this in Europe. There are a large number of countries that use medical age assessments, and there are countries that have chosen to use the methods they no longer have in Sweden – without having any debate about them there. I do not think there is a picture that Sweden has the worst method, but we also have high demands on legal certainty. Christina Höj Larsen says in her post: Now you are making a difference if you are under or over 18 years old. Yes, I sincerely hope that we agree that there is a difference between being over or under 18 years of age. There is a huge difference between being viewed in society as being a child and being an adult. That is why it is so extremely important to know in the trial whether someone belongs to one or the other group. Unaccompanied children should not have to risk being placed with adults at all. It's almost self-evident. It is something of a child's perspective that we know with certainty that when you have gone through the trial you have been able to take a position on identity as well as making the age likely. It is, of course, a question of whether someone should be subject to a regulation that applies if you are a child or one that applies if you are an adult.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-762	Madam President, I would like I read a quote from Elias Palm stating clearly that it is the government's perspective on the matter that makes it choose this method. He clearly says that if you wanted to make sure that no child was considered an adult, you would have chosen a different method. What I'm saying is that the government, quite rightly, is very busy with adults not staying in children's accommodations. However, in the legal scandal we are currently seeing being rolled up, the consequence is that children are wrongly judged as adults, and thus placed children on accommodation for adults. That's what's happening. Children are treated as adults both at home and when they are expelled. They are deprived of their compensation and their livelihood, and they are on the street. Right now it's snowing outside. When we're gonna walk out of here, most of us are lucky to just be able to pull the jacket a little tighter around us and hurry home. But I know for sure that up here in the gallery there are some who have nowhere to go — nowhere. I know there are some in here who have been wrongly judged as adults even if they are children. I do not think that is worthy in a country with a government that wants to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. That is why I ask again: what does the government intend to do to ensure that no child is deprived of his or her rights in the age assessment process?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-765	Madam President, I would like I do not know if the Government noticed that I did not really criticise the method as such. You can certainly do that, and I could do it. But I didn't. What I questioned and asked was why it has been so urgent and what you intend to do when the evaluation comes according to what it shows. That's a completely different thing. With regard to what the bourgeois government did, it is a little funny to blame something that the previous government did and that one thinks was bad and then makes a new bad decision. I'm having trouble buying it. The RMV is now doing exactly what the government has asked them to do. But the question is not just about the medical assessments. Nor does the interpellation say anything about the medical assessments. This is about so much more. What about assistants and interpreters, for example? What about good men? Many do an amazing job while others do not do an equally amazing job. For many, it is about the conditions for doing this particular job. Let's look at what we can call a system collapse, because that word is used in so many other contexts. With regard to the age assessment system and the asylum system in particular, I must call it a collapse of the system. This must be seen in a context. The question is, and the question in the interpellation was, why has the Government not answered the massive criticism in the reviews, in the articles and in the reports. We've seen reportage after reportage, and the responsible minister hasn't answered. I still wonder about the very question asked in the interpellation: why has the Government not responded to the criticisms that come from the media, from concerned citizens, from various journalists, from radio and television and from various newspapers? I would still like an answer to that.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-770	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpeller Christina Höj Larsen for the interpellation and Christina Örnebjär for their contributions to the interpellation debate. This is, of course, a major and important part of my political work as Minister for Migration. But Christina Örnebjär will not hear me answer if the method of medical age assessment is right or wrong, because the choice of method is not a political responsibility. It is not the Riksdag that chooses the method of medical age assessment. It is not the government either, but we have the authorities and a profession in charge of it. In this case, it is doctors who are responsible, just as it is in health care in general. So these answers will not come from me. However, I am happy to take part in the debate on the migration process and the asylum process and why we have this tool with medical age assessments and the value of it. I have to ask a question back, even if it just gets rhetorical now, and it is: What would it have been like if we hadn't? What about the great reception we have had if we did not have a tool that could help to clear the issue for the individual to make his or her identity and age likely? I don't think anyone, not even Christina Höj Larsen, would have wanted to see that situation. When it comes to the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare, it is not an evaluation mission, but a follow-up mission. Of course, we follow that very closely. It is an incredibly important task, and this is exactly how you should work to develop both methods and assignments and to constantly work with knowledge and expertise on the issues. We'll have to get back to that when the National Board of Health and Welfare comes up with this.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-775	Madam President, I would like Mrs Pethrus has asked me what I am talking about with my statement on a social test in connection with own living and whether I can develop what the government intends with possible alternatives to the proposal of the receiving inquiry. Roger Hedlund has asked me how I imagine that the new proposal on EBO could be drawn up and what further changes I believe could be necessary to prevent overcrowding. The rules for the reception of asylum seekers are laid down in the Act on the reception of asylum seekers, etc. The Act states that the Migration Agency must provide accommodation in facilities for all applicants for asylum. The law also states that asylum seekers can arrange housing on their own, so-called own accommodation, abbreviated EBO. Asylum seekers thus have the right to have accommodation arranged during the asylum period but are not obliged to live in an accommodation arranged by the Finnish Immigration Service. Regardless of which residence an asylum seeker chooses, a certain amount of compensation is paid from the Migration Agency to asylum seekers who do not have their own funds. There are both advantages and disadvantages to the order we have today. For example, it may be good for the individual to choose where to live, and when more asylum seekers arrange their own housing, the costs of the state will also be reduced. In some cases, however, own housing can also have negative consequences both for individuals and for society at large, such as families with children who live in crowded and socially unsustainable forms where children cannot read homework in peace and quiet or municipalities that receive very many people without planning conditions for school and care. The Government therefore intends to limit the negative social consequences of asylum seekers' ability to arrange their housing on their own. In spring 2018, the Reception Investigation will present its proposal for a coherent system for the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. The investigation's proposals on asylum seekers' housing will be the starting point for the government's continued work on the issue. The Government intends to take measures to limit the negative social consequences of asylum seekers' ability to arrange their own housing. However, the work of the investigation should not be pre-empted.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-781	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It was a little late. I asked the question at the end of November, and you have the right to receive an answer within 14 days, but I thought it was okay to postpone it and thought it might be an even more full-bodied answer. However, I do not think I have received that, and I think that I have not received so much answers to my questions. The issue of EBO came up as part of the migration agreement in the government between the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which deals with the status of unaccompanied minors. We have a lot of reservations about that proposal in general but think that the signals that came from the government about changes in the EBO law sound promising. The Christian Democrats have in the autumn's budget exercise in Category 13 proposed precisely a system in which we believe that asylum seekers who choose their own accommodation, EBO, must be able to show a credible and dignified living. The government said at the presentation of the Migration Agreement that it wants to introduce some form of system with so-called worthy housing for asylum seekers and said it wants to tear up the so-called EBO law to combat extreme overcrowding, but it should also aim at, said the government, to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market and in Swedish society. During the Government's presentation, I understood that if no alternative is found that the current Reception Investigation is planned to come up with, it will nevertheless make some kind of proposal of its own. During the press conference on 27 November, the Government stated that the content of the investigation was partly known, I perceived it as. That is why I asked the question as to what the Government intends with its statement on a social test in connection with its own housing, as the Government had done in its speech at the press conference. I also thought that the Government would be happy to develop what the Receiving Investigation can come up with for proposals that the Government puts forward. The 1994 EBO Act has made integration more difficult, as we see it. We have seen municipalities such as Södertälje and Malmö that have for a long time sent out distress calls and said that they have major problems both with the housing situation and with being able to provide various welfare services because the search pressure has increased so much. You sleep in shifts in some apartments, but there has also been a kind of market to sell apartments illegally. It would be nice if we could get some more information during this debate about what kind of changes the Government wants to see. What's the purpose? I hope that this is the same as for the Christian Democrats, namely to improve integration, to reduce overcrowding, to get to criminals who rent out illegally and so on. There are many different parts, and I would be grateful if the Government could give some kind of indication of how she views this issue.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-788	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! My question is about the EBO Act, which enables asylum seekers to arrange their own accommodation. The government has announced that it intends to bring about a change in this area, which makes us very happy from the Swedish Democrats because we have been pushing this issue for a very long time. The government says that it is waiting for the proposal of a reformed EBO law to be submitted to the receiving investigation, adding that if no alternative design is found, the government will continue to look at its own proposal. Some form of dignified living is spoken of. The problems in this area are many and well known. Above all, EBO leads to a large overcrowding in some areas of Sweden. We have seen many consequences, and the police, social services and housing companies testify to a black trade in rental contracts on a large and organised scale, where there is some form of parallel housing agency with usury rents. This has led to many other problems too, of course. It is about social problems and the deterioration of integration. Many people who live in these properties have no real idea who actually lives there because there are so many people living in the staircase. It has also worsened the possibility for young people to, for example, carry out homework and get to study. Increased frustration will of course be a consequence, and if nothing else for the municipalities also a major difficulty in planning for the services needed in these areas. There are a lot of problems. We can talk about it for a long time. We are also pleased that we agree that the problems are great. The questions I have asked are: How does the Government think that the new proposal for EBO can be drawn up? What further changes does the Government consider to be necessary to prevent overcrowding, i.e. after EBO has been granted to an asylum seeker? It is one thing that you can present a contract without overcrowding, but how do we check at a later stage that it is not just temporary and a chimare? Another question to which I would like answers from the Minister is how clear it has been against the Receiving Investigation and how they will investigate this specifically. I do not feel that I have received an answer to this yet, so I hope that the Minister, although I understand that the government is waiting for that proposal, can talk about how she thinks a proposal from the government that it itself is pleased with will look like. Will it be sure to review how to create a system where, by extension, one does not create overcrowding at a later stage?
i-c01eb52f284653f5-796	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with Mrs Pethrus's description of the problem with regard to EBO and how it works today. I am sure it is also in different ways consistent with many of the impressions that both Désirée Pethrus and I have from Local Government, and I can in fact also agree with Mrs Pethrus on why we need to make a change. What the government has done in the weeks before Christmas is that we have announced and declared that we want to see a change in the EBO framework and that we are in favour of introducing some sort of system of so-called worthy living. If you look at Kommunsverige, there are a number of inputs, suggestions and models that have been communicated in different ways over the years between individual municipalities to the government authorities but also through SKL and in a dialogue with the government and parliament. More familiar is Södertälje's work with so-called worthy living, and I know that there are more municipalities that want to contribute to this work with their experiences and good examples of how to do some kind of trial in different ways. When we look at EBO per 1,000 inhabitants, we may not be so surprised that among the municipalities with the most EBOs of 1,000 inhabitants we see Botkyrka, Sundbyberg, Södertälje and Malmö, as mentioned here. But there are also for example Älvdalen and Sorsele, so it is all over Sweden. These are large and small municipalities, and it is in many respects about EBO the same experience, i.e. there are too much negative consequences that can be what was described here with crowded families with children and difficulties with homework, but it can also be a pure trade in expensive housing contracts that are sold and purchased because the regulations we have today create the conditions for this. So the government sees this and wants to see a change. The most appropriate entry into such a change work, the government has assessed, is to await the weeks remaining of the work of the Receiving Investigation. We gave a shorter extension on this, so it will come in the spring. In the directives to the Reception Investigation, there is a clear mandate regarding asylum seekers' housing, and it is clear that it should be planned and implemented so as to support the Finnish Immigration Service's activities and promote the establishment of those who are granted a residence permit and will begin their future in Sweden without hindering a possible enforcement process. The dialogue we have with the Reception Investigation shows, therefore, that work is under way on this. However, I will not anticipate the receiving inquiry, but I will wait these weeks to see proposals in this part too.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-803	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer. I understand that the Government will not answer much more to the questions about the investigation, but I will still elaborate a little on other questions about this. The EBO problem is of course a major problem for municipalities, and very often it also affects and increases exclusion, I think. Although you sometimes think that EBO is good for integration, I think it can be the other way around. If I have understood correctly, the Finnish Immigration Service's statistics in November indicate that almost half of the 83 000 still present in the asylum search process are in facility housing, ABO. There are 32,000 people living in EBO, so there are a few more in ABO. My question to the Government is whether she thinks this is an appropriate distribution or whether the Government would prefer everyone to be in ABO. After the asylum application period, the start-up phase will be assigned to the municipalities. But even in this part of the process, housing is a problem. As I said earlier, the Christian Democrats would like to have some kind of alternative for dignified housing instead of EBO, and we are thinking a little bit about crowded housing standards and requirements of the kind imposed on municipalities with the task of providing housing. There are, of course, demands in connection with the instruction law, and we think that this could also apply to asylum seekers who want to live in their own homes. You might be able to make demands on living space. We have also talked about the fact that we believe that integration must begin earlier. We know today that many people are in passivity during the asylum process. You're inactive, which creates frustration. You become passive and start to expect society to solve different things for the individual. Instead, we want to introduce something that we call an asylum programme that should be about six months long and mandatory from day 1 when you come to Sweden, with sfi, social orientation and some form of employment in housing or elsewhere in society. We believe that we need a full-time care and also a full-time commitment from the individual from day 1 in order to speed up the integration process. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight this, because even in this situation many EBOs are choosing, and perhaps they do not want to be part of the social information and much of what is happening at asylum homes today. Many of those living in EBOs are not involved in any kind of social orientation, but have to wait until a residence permit decision has been issued. How does the Government view some kind of program in maybe six months that is already started at the asylum accommodation and then started the lockout? If you have started with the language training already at the asylum accommodation you have a lot won when you go into the next phase of looking for work. Otherwise, the focus is often on work and forgets languages and the social orientation. We therefore think that regardless of whether you live at ABO or in EBO, you should go through this programme, but we still believe that it is best to do so in asylum accommodation. I would like a comment from the Government, if that's all right.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-812	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Minister. I would have liked to know why it has taken such time for the government to recognise the problem of EBO and why it has not put forward proposals to reform the law in the past. We have seen the problems for a very long time. Those who work in the municipalities have clearly signalled this, but this has not been achieved. It would have been interesting to know the answer to that question. I would have liked to hear what direction the government and the Minister are thinking of the reformed EBO legislation. There is still a need to have an opinion on this issue somewhere, even if you are waiting for an investigation. I find it difficult to see how reformed EBO legislation can improve the situation in this area. That is also why it would have been fun to hear the Minister's opinion on the matter. How do people who settle at an address with people who already live there avoid overcrowding? There are few apartments where there is room for more people to stay. These people are natural reasons for relatives, relatives and similar contacts that have existed before. I find it difficult at all to see how it is possible to counter this overcrowding with another type of regulation of EBO legislation. I wonder, above all, how it will be countered if, at a later stage, you settle down at a different address than the one that was first given when you received EBO's grant. I ask my questions once again, and I hope that I can still get an answer from the Minister on how to think about this area. We Swedish democrats believe that the EBO legislation really should be demolished in order to counter these problems that are created with overcrowding in society. These problems are so great that it is not possible to have this EBO legislation in the future. Some action needs to be taken. There we believe that the alternative is to completely tear up the EBO.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-817	Madam President, I would like I will begin this time with the questions from Roger Hedlund. Why now and not before has the government decided to tear up and reform the EBO? It is, of course, always difficult to answer when initiatives are taken and why they are taken on that particular occasion. I myself have many years of experience as Chairman of the Municipal Board and Mayor of a Skåne municipality. I have during a number of same visits together with colleagues at the time courted the government on the EBO issue. The starting point has been that it is extremely important to listen to the municipalities, to see the negative consequences of overcrowding that many municipalities bear witness to. In the autumn, it has felt good for me as the responsible minister to be a part of the government's work, where we now present a clarification that we want to tear up and reform the EBO. This is to address the negative effects of EBO. This is also to strengthen the entry of newcomers into the labour market. I note that we seem to agree with the Swedish Democrats on the value of these issues, but they do not hide from me what the Swedish Democrats' starting point in the general debate on asylum seekers and new arrivals is. I have the experience of a municipal work where Roger Hedlund's party has been very active in not opening the door to anyone. Then perhaps the EBO issue itself will not be the biggest issue in that context. But for the government it is important and urgent. Then there were Mr Pethrus' questions. I can very briefly agree with the value of starting as early as possible with efforts. It is also part of the work of the Receiving Investigation to come back with proposals. It is ultimately a question of choosing a state or municipal model for an effective and well-functioning asylum reception. There I hope that we will have a good discussion between the parties when the investigation presents its proposal. Basically, it is right that the earlier the efforts, the better. Then there is a good circumstance in the work of reforming the EBO, namely that housing is being built as never before. This, of course, facilitates what can then come up with concrete proposals as to what the reform of the EBO should be. In the future, there will be access to housing in a completely different way than in recent years. It is also an important part of that work. Désirée Pethrus points to the scale of EBO today. That is exactly what Mrs Pethrus has said in the debate. Last year there were 32,000 − 33,000. It's approaching almost half a share. When the EBO was decided in 1994, own housing for asylum seekers and new arrivals, there was an assessment for the decision that EBO would make up about 10%. There have been peaks of almost 50%. It is important that there is reform of the EBO. I am pleased that there seems to be a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. I thank you very much for that.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-823	Madam President, I would like We agree to tear up the EBO law. At the same time, we need to look at how we are going to manage to receive more people in asylum homes. There are many such accommodations that are being closed down right now. What does the Minister think of more and more housing being closed down? I don't know how many places are left, but they have to be included in the calculation. It always costs to start new accommodations. Then there was the question of the organised black trade. Is that also something that the Government considers important? Boverket has said that a rental can cost a 100 000 – 150 000 SEK on the black market. There will be an organised trade in apartments in Sweden. It itself becomes a pull for people who do not act seriously to go to Sweden – drug trafficking, apartment trade, human trafficking. These are issues that we need to focus on. Those who come here should have protection reasons, not because it is easy to start a criminal activity. It is important to put these questions in a broader perspective. In her final comment, I would like the Government to answer the question of the number of places in asylum accommodations and how she views the issue of criminal persons engaged in the black market for rental rights.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-825	Madam President, I would like I can agree with the Minister that there is a big difference between the views of the Swedish Democrats in immigration policy and those of the Social Democrats. We differ in whether we are going to help a few people in Sweden or whether we are going to focus on helping the 65 million refugees around the world who are currently living in poor humanitarian conditions. We can certainly say that. But let's stick to the point. We're talking about the EBO legislation. The problem of overcrowding and all its consequences will not disappear just because we are implementing the migration policy of the Swedish Democrats tomorrow. The problems of overcrowding persist. I would like to know in what way the Minister thinks that the situation will be better if we reform the EBO legislation to some extent. How will the situation improve when the EBO continues to lead to increased overcrowding? At a later stage, there is a great risk that after having been granted an EBO placement, you will settle at an address where it is already crowded. In what way does the Minister think that the new proposals announced by the government will come later will improve the situation? That question remains. We Swedish democrats are clear that the best way to combat overcrowding is to tear up the EBO legislation here and now.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-828	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the interpellants Désirée Pethrus and Roger Hedlund for the debate. The government believes that the debate on tearing up and reforming the regulatory framework for EBO is important. I also note in the debate that we seem to have quite a consensus on the value of it. Briefly on the further questions that Mrs Pethrus is asking me: Yes, this may mean that we need to discuss the number of places in construction housing in the future. But this is also to be seen in the light of the fact that in 2015 we received 163 000. For the next two years, we have been between 25 000 and 27 000. It is extremely difficult to see what the next few years will mean. We are still at a very high level of reception, but it is clear that the change from 163 000 to somewhere around 25 000 will bring about a long-term change in the number of sites that must be included in the overall assessment. On the issue of illegal trade in rental contracts, we have had an investigation and a handover, so we will come back on that. Finally to Roger Hedlund: If the government and I put forward the proposal to tear up and reform the EBO, it is clear that we believe in change. When Roger Hedlund says it won't lead to anything, he's wrong. When the government expresses an ambition and a will and waits for an investigation, of course we also have an ambition and a desire to bring about change. I am absolutely convinced that we will be doing this together with the entire Municipality of Sweden when it comes to EBO, because there is a great need for that change.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-832	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how I intend to act to keep my jobs at the Migration Agency in Gävle and Söderhamn and whether it is reasonable that the state activities that work with migration issues are maintained in Gävleborg given that the municipalities in Gävleborg have taken a very large responsibility for the reception of refugees in Sweden. Furthermore, Lars Beckman has asked whether the Migration Agency should take into account the labour market situation in its continued planning of prioritised locations, given that Gävleborg already has a very strained labour market, while Uppsala, where the Migration Agency intends to prioritise its operations, has a very good labour market. The Finnish Immigration Service currently has offices all over the country and is located in 86 different locations. As the number of asylum seekers in Sweden has decreased and the number of persons enrolled in the Migration Agency's reception system is expected to decrease further, the organisation and activities of the Migration Agency must also do so. The Government's budget proposal states that the Authority's administrative appropriations should be adapted to the new conditions. The Finnish Immigration Service is currently reviewing the staffing needs and will shortly decide to adapt its organisation to the new conditions. The Authority will need to reduce its workforce by more than one third in 2018. This will mean a change in and, in some cases, the closure of operations in certain locations. Reductions are planned in all six regions of the Finnish Immigration Service. The Finnish Immigration Service, like the other state authorities, is governed by the Budget Act, which states that high efficiency must be sought and good management observed in the state's activities. It is up to the authority itself to decide how it should be organised according to the requirements of the business. In the government's work with a Sweden that holds together, it is important to have a state presence throughout the country in terms of both citizens' access to service and government jobs. In order to ensure and strengthen access to basic government services throughout the country, the government has set up an investigation to analyse and suggest how certain government agencies' local service activities can be organised in a more coherent way. The investigation shall submit its report on 31 May 2018.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-837	Madam President, I would like I started the day at 10 a.m. 13 with a debate with the Minister for Rural Development and given the privilege of concluding it. There has been an important debate here tonight on the rule of law in asylum trials and other important issues on the subject of the Council of State. I have made an interpellation about the changes that the Migration Agency will make in Gävle and Söderhamn, where there is a good tradition and many talented employees who have worked for a long time. They have now been notified by the Migration Board. The Finnish Immigration Service intends to gather together in strategic locations: Uppsala, Örebro, Gothenburg, Malmö and Stockholm. It goes against the government's ambition. The Government also says in its reply that the Government has set up an investigation into having government activities spread across the country. In this case, however, it is intended to concentrate activities on locations with a very good labour market. Gävleborg has a good tradition of receiving many foreign born. I know that our County Governor Per Bill has often pointed out that Gävleborg is one of the counties that has received the most foreign born. Therefore, it was almost a shock when the government authority The Migration Agency talked about that in the county that may have received the most foreign born, all activities should be closed down. It is, of course, difficult to understand. Before the large flow of refugees came to Sweden, we had a ve care that had existed for 15 to 20 years in Gävle and Söderhamn. There was a large flow of refugees in a short time. The Finnish Immigration Service greatly increased its staffing. When the Finnish Immigration Service is now withdrawing its operations, it is very difficult to understand why they are closing down operations where there is a very high level of competence among the staff. It is quite clear that those who have worked for 15 years in an authority have a high level of competence to assess, for example, asylum seekers. Now they risk losing their job. The very change that it says about in the interpellation we do not dispute about. That you have to cut back on business is a given. But when you do, you have to look at where you have the most competent employees and where the business has been for a long time. For me, it is difficult to understand that you should close a business where the employees have worked for a very long time. I also think that when the Government's authority The Migration Agency looks at where to locate its activities, it is reasonable to do so to the counties where there are many people involved in the matter. Now it feels almost like Gävleborg is being punished by the government's authority The Migration Agency when it will remove all operations from Gävleborg. I have asked concrete questions to the Government, which the Government has chosen not to answer. But in this interpellation debate, I hope that the Government will take this opportunity to tell us if it is reasonable to place activities in Uppsala, for example, whose unemployment is one of the lowest in Sweden, to pick operations from Gävle, which unfortunately is at the top in terms of unemployment. It is of course much more difficult for 140 employees at the Migration Agency to get a job in Gävleborg than it is for someone who works in a locality with a good labour market.
i-5aajccZHEZyr77rc7TW9Ct	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for an important interpellation! I have had the pleasure of visiting the County Governor Per Bill at the residence and, in connection with that visit, I have heard a very interesting story about the county that the County Governor presented with great pride in his county. I think this is how it is when there is a change, in this case a cut, of an authority's activities – because that is actually what is happening with the Migration Agency. Lars Beckman also says that he is not fundamentally opposed to change. It has to be done because the Migration Agency has handled completely different volumes in recent years and is likely to do so also in the next few years. This means that the capacity must change and be in relation to the needs and volumes of the business. Wherever the Migration Board makes this change and cutting it hurts, both geographically and for the people affected by the change, and I have the greatest respect for that. At the same time, the Migration Agency is today one of the most relocated businesses and, as I said, is located in 86 different locations. It is not, therefore, a government structure that is only organised in the capital, but it is all over our country. Nevertheless, of course, every change hurts, and I understand and have real respect that it pains with a change work that leads to a discussion in Gävleborg and in the places that are affected. I will not, and I will not, go in and review or review the ongoing work of the Agency or any decision on changes in my response to the interpellation. The authority is responsible for this. I have pointed out both the investigation we have and the government's ongoing work on what we call relocation, which has also, to some extent, meant reinforcements in Gävleborg. It is also likely to bring about positive changes for the country in the future. But it is clear that the Migration Board's reductions will hurt around Sweden.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-852	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. If the Finnish Immigration Service's decision is passed, Gävleborg County will lose 140 important jobs. In addition to this, there are numerous jobs generated by the presence of the Agency, not least the large profession of interpreters. This is what gets so complicated: The government says that it wants government activities and has even made decisions that mean that 80-90 jobs will be created in Gävleborg; I am thinking of the Swedish ESF Council and the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. We have seen that those affected by the decision on the ESF Council unfortunately do not want to move to Gävle, so there is a risk of losing competence. So we are risking the same thing here. We have employees who have worked for a very long time and are experienced, skilled and skilled in their professional activities. They cannot, of course, dream that the government authority, when the number of asylum seekers is increasing and a business is then to be withdrawn, wants to take away the activities that have existed for a very long time. Statskontoret's report 2016:8 is very interesting. I assume the Government has read it. There, Statskontoret means, for example, that the government has the possibility to indicate location for all or part of the authorities through instructions. So there is nothing that prohibits the government from acting on this issue – quite the contrary. It can also be read in the same report that Uppsala has the highest proportion of government jobs in relation to the population. In Uppsala County there are 79 per cent more government jobs than the population. In Gävleborg County we have a strong under-representation of 22 percent. This is what gets complicated: when government policies do not stick together. I think that the Government should get involved in this issue and actually ask its authority how it came to concentrate strategically in just a place like Uppsala, when Gävleborg County has the most asylum seekers. The people affected will have to travel very far, and the skills of those working at the agency, where there are people who have worked since they established themselves in Gävle and Söderhamn, will be affected. I find this worrying. There is great political unity: the entire municipal board in both Gävle and Söderhamn. I have also noted that the Social Democrats in Hälsingland have made their own rebellion and of course are deeply upset to get a slap in the face precisely because Gävleborg County's municipalities have taken a huge responsibility in the reception of asylum. Then one might think that the government authority should not punish the municipalities in Gävleborg County. On the contrary, it should, of course, arm the municipalities. I very much hope that the Government will take a more committed role in trying to protect operations in Gävleborg, not least on the basis of the Government's own ambitions to have government activities spread throughout Sweden.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-860	Madam President, I would like I can begin by insuring the interpellier that I have a great deal of commitment to the value of both relocating and developing citizen services throughout the country. I hardly have to say that, with my background, I have also made some sort of courtship of governments over the years in order to ensure the presence of the state in my own county. I really have the greatest respect for the broad turnout in Gävleborg. I believe every word Lars Beckman says when it comes to the layout and arguments for Gävleborg; there is no doubt about that. What remains in the mission itself and the question is that the Migration Agency actually needs to reduce its workforce by more than a third in 2018. This means major changes and, of course, closures in several different locations in Sweden. This is according to the Migration Agency, because I can also assure Lars Beckman that we are of course conducting continuous discussions with the Migration Agency, not only on these issues but also on the work of adapting the suit in the agency, so to speak. The answer we get is that reductions are planned within all six regions of the Finnish Immigration Service. The work therefore does not focus on one county, but covers the mission of the Migration Agency throughout Sweden. However, I am convinced that even after the Migration Agency's change work we will see and meet a work throughout Sweden, not only in the Mälardal area or the capital.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-864	Madam President, I would like The Migration Agency has therefore been in Gävle and Söderhamn for a very long time, which is a backbone of the Migration Agency's operations. They have employees who have worked for a very long time and have a high level of competence. It also has many different activities gathered close to each other – it is a unique Swedish business. Now the Migration Agency has said that the activities will be concentrated in Stockholm, Uppsala, Örebro, Gothenburg and Malmö. This is, of course, to fail, among other things, Gävleborg County. What seems very difficult to understand, and which is why I wrote this interpellation in early December, is that we have had a business in Gävleborg County for a long time. Then the volumes go up, and then it is completely illogical that the government authority closes down the activities that have been around the longest. It would be natural to make the reductions in places where the labour market is taken into account and for a much shorter period of time. When it comes to the government's ambitions, it can be noted that Gävleborg County with the government's rhetoric goes about 80 – 90 government jobs back, if you compare the decisions that have been said to come with the jobs that disappear. This is, of course, unfortunate and stupid, and it is punishing the municipalities of Gävleborg County, which has taken a very large responsibility by receiving a great many asylum seekers. After all, the Government has even been in Gävleborg County to look at the fantastic collaboration that has existed between the Migration Agency, the County Administrative Board, the municipalities and others. This alone would be a reason for the government to actually instruct the authorities to take account of both the regional labour market and the reception of asylum by municipalities in this process.
i-c01eb52f284653f5-869	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for an urgent and important interpellation! I really understand the starting point for it. I know how important it is for each county to ensure that there is constant growth and that there are conditions for continued growth. I am convinced that Gävleborg will have this. After this debate, I also think that Lars Beckman will see that the next time I meet with the Director General of the Migration Agency, I will not only discuss the major task and the necessary change work but will also ask a question about Gävleborg. Thank you very much for the debate. Thank you for tonight.
