i-919bac20d355696a-3	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me If I believe it is a government matter to sell animal feed This is why I do not want to take any steps to ensure that scientists carry out their activities in accordance with the rules in force. If I consider that the sale of ordinary animal feed by scientists does not unduly distort competition: What measures I intend to take to ensure that competition for private sellers of animal feed is not distorted. I note that, in principle, the same questions have recently been put to me by Lars Beckman and his fellow Members, Margareta Cederfelt and Betty Malmberg, but I can, of course, also answer them in this House. Let me begin by saying that animal welfare is a priority for me and the government. Animals in need of care should receive care, regardless of where they are in the country and at whatever time the need arises. The government's assessment, as the alliance government's assessment was, is that a solution with only private-practicing veterinarians cannot meet the high ambitions of the state in terms of animal health and animal welfare. The government considers that scientists are a necessary complement to the activities of private operators. In order to be able to operate an effective State veterinary organisation, it is also necessary for scientists to be able to operate under market conditions. Therefore, it is up to the scientists to deal with all types of animal health care and animal health care of farm animals. They may also carry out veterinary services in respect of horses and pets at an established level of primary care. The activities are toll-financed. The part dealing with the provision of certain services of general interest is part-financed by state funds, and this part is presented separately. As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's comments on the procurement and sale of animal feed by scientists, I would like to refer to my previous answers to the three parliamentary questions on the subject that Lars Beckman, Margareta Cederfelt and Betty Malmberg have recently put to me. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of a well-functioning veterinary organisation. My hope is that the districts of Sweden are seen as a good complement to private operators without distorting competition.
i-919bac20d355696a-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yesterday the government had a press conference, and the Prime Minister said this: When urban residents are going out to the countryside and relax, it must work there too. Madam President, I would like I think it is important that there is good public service throughout Sweden, not only for urban residents but, of course, primarily for those of us who live outside the big cities. It is therefore important that there are good conditions for small businesses. It is important that there are many private small businesses around Sweden. It is against that background that I have put this interpellation. I do not think it is satisfactory that we have competition in general from the National Board of Agriculture against private companies and, in particular, that we do not sell animal feed. I have put a straight and simple question to the Government: What does the Government think that the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not comply with the law? The Government then refers, among other things, to an answer written to Betty Malmberg. Since the Government did not read it out or refer to it, it is unclear to the television viewers what the Government thinks, so I read it out. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is responsible for managing the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's answer to the report shows that the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's view regarding the power to sell animal feed. ..................................................... So that is what the Swedish Board of Agriculture thinks. My question was what Minister Bucht thinks. Does the Government and the Government believe that selling dog and cat food is a matter for the government? Does the Government see any difficulties with the Swedish Board of Agriculture competing out private entrepreneurs?
i-919bac20d355696a-23	Is it important to have small businesses around Sweden that make it possible to get good public service whether you live in Ockelbo, at Södermalm in Stockholm or in Karesuando in Norrbotten? It is, of course, the case that when the Swedish Board of Agriculture goes in and makes market disruptions, it has consequences for private companies. I can understand the many small businessmen who are deeply upset. They have read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, where the Swedish National Audit Office is very clear that it believes that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is simply breaking the law. The Swedish National Audit Office considers the Swedish Board of Agriculture to be in breach of the law. The report states that the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that there is no explicit authority for the National Agricultural Agency to sell animal feed. It's clear. It's black and white. There's no misunderstanding. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that there is no explicit power for the National Agricultural Agency to sell animal feed. My question to the Government was therefore not what the Swedish Board of Agriculture thinks about the Swedish National Audit Office's report but what the Government thinks about that report – and if the Government sees any problems with a government work competing out private entrepreneurs. But we will have answers to that in the next speech.
i-919bac20d355696a-26	Madam President, I would like I'd like to put things in perspective. There has been a huge expansion of the veterinary market in Sweden over the last ten years. This is not only because the number of dogs and cats has increased. Animal health today offers a very high level of availability, advanced care and treatment. Medical and technological developments have progressed rapidly in the veterinary field as well. For more than five years, two giants dominate veterinary care for pets. Two giants. This is in addition to individual animal health care companies – and districts of the Swedes. The share of the county population in the veterinary market has fallen to less than 10%. What Mr Beckman is referring to here is the sale of animal feed. The share of the districts of Sweden in total sales of animal feed is 0.6 per cent. That's 0.6%. Madam President, I would like Mr Beckman enlarges this to an extremely large issue. When it comes to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, this is something that the Swedish Board of Agriculture handles. I have said this in the answers I have given earlier, and I stand by that. This is not something that the Minister should go in and deal with. I would also like to remind you, Madam President, that the feed sold by the districts of Sweden, which accounts for 0.6% of the total market, is very often linked to the diagnosis of the disease established during the visits. I promise Lars Beckman, which I will return to in the next speech, that the private veterinarians and animal feed sellers are far from always out there in the real world.
i-919bac20d355696a-32	Madam President, I would like The government had a minute and a half left, but you'll have to take that time. I think that the Government is ignoring the National Audit Office and does not take its criticism seriously. This is what the representatives of the Swedish National Audit Office say: This should be contrasted with the attempt of the Minister for Rural Development to simply reduce the issue. I was already in contact with state competition in this area in 2004. Then there was a fantastic business in Sandviken called Gästrike Djurklinik. The owner there contacted me as a representative of a business organisation. He had read about how the state would open an animal clinic a bit from him and about the investment of 4 – 5 million that the state made. He was deeply concerned about the consequences of the government's unhealthy competition that would arise against his fine company with 30 employees. He was worried that he would lose customers, that people would opt him out and for what it would mean for Sandviken, which, if that company were to disappear, would be without a veterinarian. This was 2004. I remember bringing there a Social Democratic and a People's Party Member of Parliament, who met the owner. The owner explained why it was so serious when the state went in and competed with private companies. Unfortunately Lennart Eriksson was right, and the company went bankrupt, partly because of the animal clinic that the Swedish Board of Agriculture opened a few miles away. It can be said that only 0.6% are buying animal feed from the state today, but at the margin, of course, given the 60 000 million in tax increases that this government has introduced for private companies, a huge market disturbance. The consequence, Madam President, for those living in Sandviken was that they got rid of their amazing animal clinic. I am concerned that these developments are continuing. Even today, private veterinarians are competing with, for example, the Internet. I was in Åmot yesterday; it is in Ockelbo municipality. There the Tempo manager told me that she herself buys animal feed on the Internet. It's really smooth to get it home-run. It is clear that every small part that someone loses and someone else wins involves a market disturbance. That is why this is so serious. I think it is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed this activity and that it has been said that it is an activity that the Swedish Board of Agriculture simply does not have the right to carry out. I would have liked the Government and the Government to have also protected the whole of Sweden and said no – we in the state should not, of course, compete with private companies and compete out of them. It is small, private companies that build services and welfare in rural areas. Then, of course, the state should not compete out private companies, Madam President.
i-919bac20d355696a-40	Madam President, I would like I can only say that Mr Beckman is much more committed to feed sellers than to animal health. Member Beckman is crying crocodile tears for those who have 99.4% of the market. The activities of the district scientists are a matter of concern. They meet a very important need around the country, not least in rural areas. They offer animal health care and animal health care in areas where there are no market conditions. For example, for those living in sparsely populated areas, the on - call activity of district veterans is absolutely invaluable. Private veterinarians have shown no interest in on-call activities. During the years 2010 – 2015, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has made 150 procurements of on-call activities. Only a private veterinarian has responded. In all cases, the district of Sweden has had to take care of the on-call activities. Madam President, I would like In Norrbotten, from which I come, there are quite a lot of private veterinary clinics along the coast and in the larger towns, where there are plenty of pets. However, if you go inwards in the county, the private veterinary clinics are very rare. There is basically only the D scientists and also a well-functioning on-call organisation, which also takes care of the on-call service along the coast and in the larger cities, where the private ones do not want it. This is also about being able to have emergency and emergency preparedness. We can take this example from everyday life. A Christmas morning has the horse colic. It is not a private veterinarian who comes there, but the district veterinarian who comes to give the vital treatment. The district veterinarian also carries with him a feed suitable for use when such a diagnosis of disease has been established. The private feed seller is not open on Christmas Eve, Christmas Day or the other day, but only after that. The efforts of district veterans around the country, particularly in sparsely populated areas, but also in coastal areas and major cities, are invaluable. It's not just about horses. Take a cow with a calf paralysis on a Saturday morning. Who's coming? Yes, the district veterinarian. My question to Lars Beckman is, Madam President, has he been through events like this? I've been through it myself, and I've had many stories about it.
i-919bac20d355696a-47	Madam President, I would like We can note that the Government talks about most things except the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. I remind you again that the reason why the Swedish National Audit Office began a review of the sales of animal feed was that it was considered a serious market disturbance and that the Swedish Agriculture Agency lacked a mandate to sell animal feed. Let's stick to Norrland. Let's listen to what Gertrud Burman, private-practising veterinarian in Skellefteå, thinks. She says something like this: Private veterinarians have put up with competition from the state district veterinarians for decades. Now the state veterinarians go one step further and start a collaboration with Folksam. At discounted prices, they gain additional market shares at the expense of private veterinarians. I'm so upset. Are government agencies allowed to behave as they please? It is obvious that the Government here legitimises the disappearance of private companies – that the state is competing out private companies. So it is not a question of having access to a veterinarian in rural areas, because we agree on that. But what we do not agree on is the division of roles, for example, if it is appropriate for the state to treat small animals when there are private veterinarians. Of course, agriculture should have effective access to veterinarians. Now the Minister has one last chance to answer the question: Does the Minister take the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism seriously, and how does the Government feel about the fact that, according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the D scientists sell animal feed even though they are not allowed to do so?
i-919bac20d355696a-51	Madam President, I would like The private veterinary companies are important for Sweden. They matter, and they have over 90% of the market. District veterinarians have barely 10% of the market. Me n D istrektsveteriärerna take almost 100 percent of the on-call business. It is absolutely invaluable to all animal owners around the country, whether it is for farmed animals or pets. I also note that, in the case of feedingstuffs, only 0.6% of the market is currently occupied by D istrict veterinarians, and it is often the case with feed that is linked to a diagnosis of disease. The fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has the view that there is not an express authority – Member Beckman, please note that it says that there is an explicit power – can probably be interpreted in different ways. The Swedish Board of Agriculture does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's view, and the Swedish Board of Agriculture is now also planning to tender animal feed 2018. The fact that Lars Beckman and his moderate party colleagues are more interested in feed sales than in animal health is still quite remarkable. This government prioritises animal health. We will stand up for it. We will stand up because we have a district veterinary organisation and also guarantee an on-call service that works and can provide feed that is linked to a medical diagnosis.
i-919bac20d355696a-55	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me what risk I see that operations of strategic interest to Sweden and the Swedish defence could be affected by a possible acquisition of GKN Aerospace. She also asks me if I and the government intend to act in any way to ensure that important industrial capabilities in aerospace remain in Sweden. GKN Aerospace is currently part of the international industrial group GKN, which is headquartered in the UK. What the company's further development looks like, I can't predict or control. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration has placed orders for the Swedish industry that ensures the continued operation of the JAS 39 C/ D system, among other things. Negotiations are also ongoing between the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the industry regarding future maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines for JAS 39 E. The Government's ambition is that activities necessary for military defence should be carried out with the necessary security of supply. I have no reason to believe that the state's interests cannot be met in the future with the expertise and know-how that exists in Sweden in this area.
i-919bac20d355696a-57	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that the background to my interpellation, i.e. the bid made by Mr Melrose on the GKN Group, has received a great deal of attention in the UK. This can be seen as natural, because it is one of Britain's largest engineering industries and accounts for a great many jobs. But Melrose is an investment company whose business is characterised by buying, re-structuring and selling companies over a few years. There has been no previous activity in the field of aviation, defence or space. Therefore, perhaps it is not likely that Melrose would put in any long-term commitment here. We have seen how a business of national interest can be affected by short-term ownership in other industries. However, precisely in terms of defence issues, national security and access to domestic production, it seems in this case that the British Government has become a little more involved. Even if you have little formal grounds to stop an affair, you still have an interest in the matter. From a defence perspective, we can say that GKN conducts an important business in the UK. Parts are delivered to combat aircraft as well as transport aircraft. The company represents many jobs, long-term investments and research efforts. But so does the company in Sweden. In Trollhättan, from which I come, GKN Aerospace is a very important part of local and regional business, with nearly 2,000 employees. It is Sweden's largest civil aeronautics industry and prominent in what they call additive manufacturing, 3D printing in metal, and a lot of other things. In the area of defence, I understand, it is called product support when, for example, flight time is guaranteed for the Gripen aircraft engines. Space has long worked with the engines of the European launcher Arianes. What happens when an investment company probes the terrain could be read about in the Financial Times on March 15. The global aircraft manufacturer Airbus then went out and warned that no new business could be done with such uncertain ownership as Melrose. GKN's operations in Trollhättan, as in many other locations, are global. 90 per cent of the business is an export industry. Should it disappear or decrease in scope, it has different effects on the rest of society. Therefore, I asked my first question to the Government: Do you have an overview of the situation, and do you make any assessment of how this could affect the operations in Sweden?
i-919bac20d355696a-64	Madam President, I would like As far as basic security interests are concerned, we have the combat flight system and the underwater system. There we have orders that are in relation to Saab. We also have operations in Karlskrona that have been taken over by Saab from Thyssen Krupp once upon a time. This is indicated as special interests in parliamentary decisions precisely so that we can have competence development, manufacturing, product development and cooperation with other countries based on what is required to develop these products so that they fit Swedish conditions and a Swedish profile. In this way, I believe that the government has clearly protected the underwater system and the combat aircraft system. GKN has been a supplier of various services for many years. The procurement is done through the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. This type of change of ownership is now under discussion. I must say that the British company that has had this has been a good supplier. I do not want to speculate about what will happen in a possible future, but the state has no ownership in defence-related industries today, nor are we able to intervene in the transfer of ownership. I do not know what method we would use to somehow get into that negotiating situation on the part of the state. The Swedish Armed Forces' operational capability is built up by military units consisting mainly of personnel and equipment. Supply needs to be ensured in order to be supplied. This is currently largely handled by the responsible authority through commercial contracts. Here the authority must comply with the legislation in force, including in the area of procurement, and that is not something that the government can interfere with. I also believe that the need and supply of relevant equipment systems and military capabilities means that the responsible authorities and industry must safeguard this in contracts over time, as well as the timely delivery, cost-effectiveness and compliance of operational capabilities. This is the order we have to work with regarding state orders to ensure capabilities within the Swedish Armed Forces. I understand that there has also been a fairly broad picture in Parliament behind this type of regulatory framework. We must treat suppliers equally and in a non-discriminatory way. We must ensure that the agreements we have with different companies are complied with and that what they say is maintained. It is of interest to the government, but also to the supplying companies, because it is about their long-term credibility. I find it difficult to speculate about the effects of this type of change of ownership. Of course, one can have fears, and they should be taken seriously. Owner changes can create a lot of concerns and question marks. At the same time, however, the state is not in a position to intervene in the transfer of ownership. This is a reality that we must see. We cannot regulate this either in Parliament or on the part of the government.
i-919bac20d355696a-70	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense is surely aware that the new version of Gripen – Gripen E – which is about to be deployed on the air forces has a new engine. GKN Aerospace might be able to handle that product support – we don't know that. As I understand it, from the contacts I have had, the government has not proposed it or decided anything about it. The question then is: how is this product support done in a long-term and cost-effective way? Should it be done in Trollhättan by GKN or by any other company in Sweden? Or is it supposed to happen in the United States? Who's gonna handle it? This is a question of just how Swedish operations are affected not only by changes globally but also by how we in Sweden act to create long-term conditions for industry. A new ownership in itself does not have to be a disadvantage. It is, of course, entirely dependent on, as the Government was concerned with, procurements and other things. But of course the industry itself is curious and wonders how to view this in the long term. This with product support and so on seems to be a process that has been going on for many years. I come from a rather affected place, where many jobs have been lost in recent decades. It is clear that one is worried about losing this activity – from a local and regional perspective. This would mean shortcomings, so to speak, in Sweden's knowledge and, of course, major shortcomings in know-how in this industry as a whole. But it is also about the Swedish defence capabilities within the aviation area as well as about civil industry and about competitiveness. Of course, we can also mention space activities. That is something else that I have asked questions about in this House. We don't have a space strategy in place. From the beginning, they seemed to promise a strategy, but it was a thumb. There was to be a letter, and it has not come either. For this reason, I asked my second question in the interpellation: does the Minister and the Government intend to act in any way to ensure that important industrial capabilities in aviation and space remain in Sweden? This is as important as what we are talking about in another area: life science. Product development time is approximately d alone. We're talking about 15 years, maybe 20 years sometimes, of development when it comes not least to aircraft engines. How can you work long-term in that industry if there is not a clear strategy for the industry? We also know that the Swedish Government is on various promotion trips and so on. It is clear that it matters which companies are allowed to participate in it. On Thursday we have a debate on trade and exports here. That is another thing to consider: if we have Swedish companies that can export on this front.
i-919bac20d355696a-77	Madam President, I would like Negotiations are ongoing between the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the industry in the field of maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines for JAS 39 E. It is a process in which the industry is involved. Here it is a question of the parties having to agree in different ways. This is done according to the order laid down by the Riksdag and completed by the Government. I have no intention of going into a situation of ministerial rule here. I do not know what it is that is being asked for, what exactly it is that we should do on the part of the government in this negotiation without taking over the role of the authorities and creating a situation in which the state suddenly finds itself in financial responsibility. I think the wisest thing is to stick to the regulations that exist and that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, together with the industry, sees how they will cope with future maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines for the JAS 39 E. I am aware that this process has been going on for a very long time. I've been trying to keep myself informed about it, and I've been following it. I have responded to interpellations about this in the past. But it is important to act as a government within the framework and regulations that exist, so that you do not cross those lines. The state will ensure that we have adequate maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines. But there is a negotiation process going on, and it must take its course. Industry is part of the giving and taking of such a negotiation process. For many years GKN has also been a good supplier on the air side on behalf of the government, so it should be possible to find a solution. But it has to be the regular route, according to the procedures that apply.
i-919bac20d355696a-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the Minister's reply. I understand very well, of course, that there are regulations, especially in this area. But for the civilian part of aerospace, it is a long period of product development, and it is clear that this requires some kind of hint and strategy on the part of the government. We have an export strategy today, with a number of points that certainly serve their purpose. However, this is special, precisely because it concerns both the military and the civilian. I therefore feel that the important thing here is for the government to come up with and put the long-term rules on the table. After all, the Government was well aware of the long process that has taken place. There are many and long processes in a number of industries. I, who work with nutrition in general, can say that almost no matter which industry and industry I turn to, you experience many and long decision-making processes. This is a complex area, but I would still like to hear from the Minister for Defence how to shorten these processes for the future.
i-919bac20d355696a-85	Madam President, I would like The fundamental decision regarding Sweden's combat aircraft competence in Sweden, which at all gives the opportunity to conduct this type of negotiations on maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines that is now taking place, is that we have placed an order for the next generation of JAS Gripen – JAS 39 E Gripen – and that we in Parliament have stated very clearly that this is an essential security interest. This is a mark against the EU acquis, where we take advantage of the opportunity available to mark our own security interests. We have also done so when it comes to underwater systems, where we have placed an order for the shipyard in Karlskrona. This is the fundamental and what makes it possible at all to conduct this discussion or negotiation that is now going on with industry on the future maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines for the JAS 39 E. Otherwise, we would not have been in that situation at all. It is difficult for me to comment on the length of such negotiations. These are different parties who have a little different roles and different interests, and they are the ones who ultimately have to solve this. As I said earlier, I am not prepared to put either me or the government in a position where we are pushing the rules. This must take its course, and it must be allowed to function on the basis of what Parliament has decided, otherwise it will ultimately become a matter for the Constitutional Committee. So I am not going to be drawn into that kind of discussion. I still hope that it will be possible to agree precisely on the maintenance and maintenance of aircraft engines and that it will be possible to make an agreement so that the future can also be achieved. But there is something that remains to be seen. There is a process and a dialogue going on. Thanks for the interpellation!
i-919bac20d355696a-91	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me three questions about socio-economic calculations regarding traffic disruptions in Sweden. In order to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply throughout the country, it is important that we make the right assessments on the basis of current facts and invest the funds where they are most useful. In order to strengthen existing systems and invest in new infrastructure, the government will invest more than SEK 100 billion in the next planning period, 2018 – 2029, than was done during the current planning period. The challenge is to prioritise the right measures and get as much benefit as possible from the funds we invest. In this work, socio-economic analysis is one of several important elements. The Finnish Transport Agency already has in its instruction the task of developing, managing and applying methods and models for socio-economic analyses in the field of transport. In addition, the Finnish Transport Agency regularly reports a plan for this work. The Finnish Transport Agency is thus continuously developing the methodology in this area. The latest plan was presented in March 2017, where Trafikverket prioritises the development of missing power relationships and calculation methods. It is highlighted that there is a great need for in-depth knowledge about the evaluation of different types of traffic disruptions, delays and congestion situations and the evaluation of travel uncertainty for both passenger and freight transport. I therefore believe that Trafikverket will develop and improve the analyses in the way Lars Beckman requests. However, there is reason to come back to the arrangements for accounting for the socio-economic costs of traffic disruptions when the methodology is in place. Now that we are making a strong effort to strengthen infrastructure, socio-economic calculations and analyses are important bases for prioritising measures in terms of both development and maintenance of the transport system. In this context, we should also consider developing methods for how we calculate the long-term effects of failing to make investments in what builds Sweden strong for the future.
i-919bac20d355696a-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that we seem to agree that we need better basis for decision-making here in Parliament and also in the government. This interpellation I wrote when I talked to the Swedish Transport Administration. I simply wanted to know what the stops on E4 between Gävle and Söderhamn and between Hudiksvall and Sundsvall cost. There is no state secret that there are major problems just on a two-plus-one road called E4 that goes between Gävle and Söderhamn. Traffic is stopped over and over again, and those affected by this are, of course, private motorists, commuters and the heavy goods traffic following the road. Then it would be reasonable to find out what the stop has cost so that it can be weighed against what it costs to fix the problem. I think we need much better decision-making, just as I am writing in the interpellation, and I know that the Government is committed to the tyre issue. When serious events occur, it is clear that it is important to know whether the private car driver was driving with stud-free tyres, perhaps even because it is a studded tyre ban in Stockholm, or whether he was driving with road-safe studded tyres. These are the things that we need to find out. With regard to the tyre issue, for example, the study showed that there is a 43 percent greater risk of being killed if you drive with stud-free tyres compared to studded tyres. Such studies are good to have for us decision-makers when we then weigh policies and measures against each other. It is therefore worrying that these statistics did not exist. I was surprised. You can go to SCB's website and find out almost everything in this country, but we couldn't find out what recurring traffic disruptions cost. I therefore think it is incredibly good that the Government signals very clearly that we need this kind of decision-making basis so that we can make wise decisions on priorities and also weigh traffic laws against each other. If it is the case that the road network, for example, is undersized today, it would be possible to find out if the Swedish Transport Administration was very clear about the cost of traffic disruption. For example, what is the cost of a school bus riding in the ditch because of poor winter maintenance? What does it cost society when Trafikverket goes out and says that you should not choose the E4 during the sports break, but the smaller roads and the consequence is to ski out after the smaller roads?
i-919bac20d355696a-102	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your praise! I share the view that it is important that we have a good basis for proper socio-economic assessments. I also think it is important that we draw up a basis for the cost of failing to invest in infrastructure. The government is now in a position where we spend 100 billion more than the previous government did on infrastructure. The price tag for the previous alliance government's failure to invest in the rail system now marks all train commuters. It is signal errors, faults or other errors that arise as a result of the previous government choosing to prioritise tax reductions instead of investments. Similarly, I sometimes compare in the debate the failure to invest in education. There are currently 100,000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market that cannot be filled because not enough are being trained. It is also important to develop a price tag on the cost of the lack of investment. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we can see that the disruptions in traffic lead to socio-economic effects. I am pleased that Lars Beckman is raising the issue of tyres, not least the winter tires. I have been involved in the matter, and I am now pushing for demands on winter tires. This means that heavy vehicles, trucks with trailers and buses should also have winter tires. That is not the case today. Today there is legislation where it is enough to have winter tyres on the drive axle, and I do not think that is enough. A few months ago, the E4 in Jönköping was completely blocked. It was filled by trucks with substandard tires. Not least, we have seen that foreign hauliers are heavily over-represented in the statistics on tyre quality. That is not acceptable. If you drive in Sweden in winter, you should have good tires. It is an important safety for road users. It is also important for those who actually drive the vehicles to know that the vehicle has good tyre quality. My question back to Lars Beckman on the tyre issue is whether the Moderates are in favour of or against the requirement that trucks and buses should also have winter tires. It goes without saying to me that we are making the demand. It will prevent accidents, and it will increase accessibility. We do not have to deal with situations where snow clearance cannot even be achieved because the road is blocked by trucks or buses with substandard tyres. We can't have that! It is important to move forward with demands, just like in Norway, on winter tires on heavy vehicles. In this context, however, I would like to take this opportunity to inform Lars Beckman that I have raised the issue of EU trailers, which has been a topical issue in the constituency, with the Commissioner. It is also an incredibly important issue to ensure a safe traffic environment and good accessibility. But then we must have the courage to make demands. Swedish haulage companies and the Transport Workers' Association have appreciated this because it evens out the conditions of competition and ensures that also foreign hauliers must have the same high level of accuracy on road safety as Swedish hauliers actually have. They have it because they are anxious for the goods to arrive, that the drivers should have a good working environment and that they can drive safely and show care also for other road users. In the same way, it is reasonable for this requirement to be imposed on others who travel with goods in Sweden. I will follow this issue closely to ensure that there are better socio-economic assessments. I also think it is important to ensure and obtain good quality statistics on which tyres are used in different traffic situations, and I am convinced that the winter tyre requirement will contribute to a safer traffic environment.
i-919bac20d355696a-111	Madam President, I would like It is sad that when we discuss a major, important and urgent issue, in which we seem to agree in principle, the Government suddenly moves to the Congress of the SSU somewhere far-away-in-town. I recommend the Government, TV viewers and viewers on the Riksdag website who watch the debate afterwards to go in and listen to Ekot's Saturday interview with the Party Secretary of the Social Democrats. Listen carefully to the host when he – or if it was a she – informs the party secretary of how many more billions in government tax revenue the alliance government had. Lena Baastad became unanswered. But let us now stick to the subject. That's why it's so boring when the government leaves on some other trip. It is therefore important to have a good basis for decision-making. We fully agree on that. That's why I brought up the tyre issue. I can see not least on the E4 when there are motorists who drive with stud-free tyres and cause traffic accidents. In a serious situation when it is lightning, studded tyres have a major impact. They are also of great importance to other road users, not least heavy traffic. When motorists with studded tires drive and tear up the surface, it becomes a better friction surface against the ice. So it's good for all motorists. If it is the case that the Prime Minister wants to run a crusade for tyres, you should run a crusade against stud-free tyres – from a road safety point of view. It would therefore be better for all motorists to drive with studded tyres – from a road safety point of view. There's a 44 percent higher risk of dying in a traffic accident when you're running a stud-free tyre compared to a studded tyre. All fatal accidents have been investigated, and the tires of the motorist have been looked at. It would be a good idea for the government to draw up a ban on municipalities to impose a dubbing-deck ban. But what do I know? It is a balance between air in big cities and road safety. If we remove SSU rhetoric, it is serious to talk about what it means not to invest in road safety. If, for example, the government raises a cashier, child benefit or other benefits, what are the consequences for them in Hälsingland when the Swedish Transport Administration says that there is no money for road maintenance? The Swedish Transport Agency must convert asphalt roads in Hälsingland to gravel roads because the government has set aside too little money. Therefore, it is good that the Moderates have set aside about half a billion more per year compared to the government. If we begin to measure the failure of our authorities with scientific methods, we will see that there is a great need for reinvestment, to ensure that the road network is maintained. It concerns large and small roads, and it concerns thoroughfares. Then, of course, the government must always prioritise and look at where the needs are greatest. Then we can see some roads, e.g. E4 through Sweden. It is obvious that the E4 should be open and navigable 24 hours per day, all days of the year, regardless of the weather. Then it would have been good – and that's what this interpellation is about – to know what it costs when the E4 is off for 18 hours. And what is the alternative cost of ensuring that there is a functioning E4?
i-919bac20d355696a-119	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman calls it SSU rhetoric. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the truth is that for a long time there was a government that chose to prioritise tax cuts and ran the country's finances at the bottom with 60 billion in deficit. That government failed to invest in what builds Sweden strongly and did not make sufficient investments in infrastructure. You can't get away from that. Lars Beckman speaks hot for studded tires. Let me remind you, then, that during the time of the Alliance Government there were not even demands for winter tyres on heavy vehicles or on buses. Now we are demanding that it be winter tires on heavy vehicles and on buses. Again, I ask Lars Beckman if he thinks it's a good idea. On private cars, which Lars Beckman and I drive, the requirement to have winter tires was met. M a is it not reasonable that those who drive a bus with 50 to 60 passengers or drive a heavy 60 - ton vehicle have tyres of good quality, such as winter tyres when it is winter road? I find it hard to see why the Moderates are avid opponents of this. I'm calling for a message now. I'm anxious that we get good quality. It is absolutely crucial on the basis of the evidence available. Therefore, we are happy to develop and develop new methods for calculating the cost of the failure to invest. Just the fact that the E4 stood still because there were not enough and good demands on tyre quality in Jönköping surely cost in the form of production losses. It is important to account for such calculations. Then, like all socio-economic calculations, this will always be a basis and never a rule, for we must, of course, have the courage and the power to make decisions for political reasons. I will be as careful with the work on statistical data as with getting statistics broken down by class and gender. One shortcoming I have noted is that it is difficult to obtain gender-disaggregated statistics in the field of transport as well as statistics that are socio-economically divided. It's just as important. The question of the statistical data is important, and here lies a great responsibility at Trafikverket to develop models and methods. I note that they do so and develop several different models in a good way. That is also why it will be an interesting debate when the price tag for failure to invest in infrastructure is noted. Now is the last chance, Lars Beckman, to give your and possibly Moderate views on the issue of winter tires and the regulation announced by the government.
i-919bac20d355696a-128	Madam President, I would like I thought the government said that the Alliance had not demanded winter tires for heavy vehicles. In fact, it was a moderate Minister of Infrastructure who, in 2012, I think, imposed requirements on precisely winter tyres for heavy-duty vehicles on driving axles. I don't know if the Prime Minister slipped his tongue or whether he's forgotten that it was actually the Alliance that introduced winter tires for heavy-duty vehicles. There is a debate among professionals who can do this. Although I have the authority to drive a bus and truck, as I did in my youth, I would certainly not call myself a professional driver. The debate concerns what is most effective and what action to take. We will have to come back to this when the Government makes a sharp proposal, if that is the case. Of course, it is important if the government fails to invest in infrastructure and chooses large, broad grant buildings before allocating sufficient resources to, for example, the road network. Of course it matters if I live in Hälsingland or somewhere else and the roads get worse and worse. I drove myself in Hälsingland on Sunday, and even though the frosting has not even started, it can be seen that more money is needed for the infrastructure. This is something that the Minister for Infrastructure has to fight for with his Minister for Finance – prioritising the right things. It is good that we agree that there is a need for a better and more comprehensive picture of the socio-economic consequences of traffic disruption. I believe that whatever government we have after the elections, we will have a better basis for decision in the future. Thank you for a good debate!
i-919bac20d355696a-132	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for a good debate! It is important that we work together to provide a good basis for political decisions. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that 140 billion in tax cuts during the last parliamentary term did not facilitate the conditions for investing in good roads. I may have discussions with my finance minister, but they have nevertheless resulted in us being able to spend 100 billion more on roads and railways than the previous government did. Clearly, then, there is a little more readiness on the part of a Social Democratic-led government to invest and invest in infrastructure. However, it will never be the case that everyone thinks it is enough. Needs are endless, not least after years of underinvestment. We who are committed to traffic policy, and I know that Lars Beckman is, must therefore continue to fight and work together for good road maintenance, road investments, rail investments and other infrastructure. Once again, thank you for the debate.
i-919bac20d355696a-135	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me whether I intend to take any action in connection with the reporting of increased privatisation of state roads. Anders Åkesson claims that Trafikverket is trying to privatise parts of the road network. The government's desire for such a development is something I can strongly deny. In a commentary on the report, the Swedish Transport Administration has stated that it is not in the interest of the Finnish Transport Administration or is there any decision to collect such a development. Nor has the government given the Authority such a mandate. In 2012, the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and the National Association of Individual Roads came up with a common target for how the boundaries between state, municipal and individual road maintenance should be. Thereafter, the Finnish Transport Administration has initiated a review work, including on the municipal road maintenance areas, and surveyed public roads in the form of exit roads less than 400 metres. The Road Act states that a road may be withdrawn if, following the creation of a new road or for some other reason, it is no longer needed for the general purpose and the measure causes little inconvenience to the district. As everyone understands, this is no easy matter to decide, and there is no established list of criteria for the interpretation of the different concepts in the law. I would like to stress that any change in roadworthiness must be examined in the light of the circumstances of the case at hand. As the Swedish Transport Administration has also clearly stated in comments to the media, there is no saving purpose in their review work. I intend to keep myself informed of developments in the work on the delimitation of road maintenance responsibilities.
i-919bac20d355696a-141	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. My question to the Government, which gave rise to this answer, was: Why does the state want to privatise the maintenance of 2 000 km of state roads? This route actually corresponds to half the circumference of the earth. According to a news report in Swedish Television and repeated several times, the Government Authority of the State Transport Agency wants to privatise and transfer accommodation along the way for reasons of saving – according to information provided in public, state media. The information is confirmed in the content of statements by representatives of the Finnish Transport Administration. My question is asked on the basis of contacts we have had with people who saw the element and who, of course, became extremely concerned and wondered whether it is about the formation of road consensuals with the meaning that those who live along the roads now have to take over the entire financial and legal responsibility of the state. Is that how these plans are intended to be implemented? If that is the case, the Government, it is a massive rollover of costs and responsibilities from the state to people living in the most peripheral parts of the country, who are allowed to manage their own roads. Of course, this is extremely inconvenient with the ambitions expressed by the cooperation government as recently as yesterday, in a proposal for a bill: that the whole country should live. M in question is: Can the Government confirm or deny the information provided by Sweden's Television? Thank you for your answer. I take it that Minister Eneroth is in any case not ignorant of the activities and has not given it its approval. So far it's good. The concern, the Government, is that news reports on the subject of privatisation of state roads covering thousands of miles, especially in the country's more sparsely populated areas, have continued. Today it can be read in the magazine Land that another representative of the Finnish Transport Administration, Jutta Pauna-Pauna-Gren, says that no one has decided that they should be withdrawn but that it must be decided on a case-by-case basis, linked to changes in society in terms of taking roads from government heads to private. It is an ongoing work to review which roads are of benefit to the public and which are primarily for the property owners and those who live and work there. According to Trafikverket, the reason for the work is that taxpayers should not have to pay to maintain roads that do not have a large number of people travelling on and that do not meet the requirements for so-called public transport. Madam President, I would like It is good that the Government is on and informed about the activities, but I have a clear feeling that there is a constant shift of roadmaster responsibility from the public and the state to the private, where one becomes with a road consensualness more or less against one's will. Then, the Government, I think you have to do more than follow the question. In addition, we need to get involved in it and make sure that transfers do not take place in this way. My supplementary question to the Government is: Will the Government do more than follow the question?
i-919bac20d355696a-152	Madam President, I would like Mr. Minister! This is an important debate that Anders Åkesson brings up, and it is very topical in my home country Östergötland. That's why I thought I'd go upstairs and add some facts. E22 will be pulled past Söderköping. This is good, but Trafikverket wants to privatise a large road that is very busy past Söderköping, towards Vikbolandet. The property owners along the way, where there are companies and some sixty stakeholders, will suddenly take over responsibility for this road, where not only they themselves go but where there is a lot of public transport. They are in great doubt about this and, with some dedicated enthusiasts at the forefront, have done a lot of work to demonstrate the absurdity of this. If the change that is now under way and that Anders Åkesson rightly points out were to be implemented, 81% of Sweden's roads would be individual, and the state would greatly reduce its responsibilities when perhaps 2,000 miles of special roads overnight are transferred to be managed by the people who live there. I like diversity, private companies and so on, but infrastructure and road networks that are populated and operated by many are a great responsibility to take over for those who live along such a road. How much of the costs will be covered? Who is responsible for road maintenance? It costs a lot. Who is responsible for road accidents? There are many questions asked. The question is: Is it reasonable to force a transfer of 2,000 miles of special roads to those who live along them? It may be in some places– I don't know– but when it comes to road 801 near Söderköping, which is a wide asphalt road with a lot of thoroughfare traffic, it is very worried that the Swedish Transport Agency wants to privatise it, with all the companies, farms and villas that are along it. I would really like to ask the Government to listen to Anders Åkesson and think this through carefully. It is a great responsibility for those who live along the way to cope with the administrative burden, get volunteers into the board work and take responsibility for anything that can happen along the way. Based on the example of Östergötland and road 801 through Mariehov on the outskirts of Söderköping, I would like to say that the plans under way are causing concern. That is why I think it is good that Anders Åkesson has raised this issue. When it is public roads that many travel on and need maintenance, there is much to suggest that it is reasonable that the government and the Finnish Transport Agency have the responsibility – it has worked well for many tens and hundreds of years. Careful consideration should be given to the ways in which privatisation might take place, and there should be dialogue with those who live along the way so that this can be mutually agreed.
i-NnnLjVNtx2tkswrYnM9rbK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson and Staffan Danielsson! I have to say that I am puzzled by the Centre Party's actions on this issue. I don't know if it's the election temperature rising, but a few days ago we could read about Annie Lööf's quote coup against Stefan Löfven and about how to take a sentence completely out of context and distorted and spread it on social media. Now this was discovered, and it became a little ridiculous and embarrassing for the Centre Party that it was so clear that it wanted to angle what the Prime Minister had said when he was protecting rural development. In this case, the Swedish Transport Administration has denied the data, which we have also been able to communicate here in the Swedish Parliament. We have an interpellation response in which we make it clear that there is no ambition to privatise the roads. Nevertheless, debate articles from center parties and others are spreading about the fact that privatisation is now taking place. Staffan Danielsson, with whom I have strong confidence and had many good debates, is concerned and wonders whether it is reasonable to force the take-over of 2 000 km. Reasonably, everyone knows this is out of the question. On the other hand, the figure is 2 000 km interesting. It was produced in 2013 during the time of the Alliance Government, when the Swedish Transport Administration was given the task of preparing the basis for the so-called RÄV project. There were perhaps thoughts at one time, in the former government, about privatising parts of the road network– I do not know. I can only say that this is not the case and that, in cases where a transfer is carried out, it is strictly regulated how it is to be done. Nor can I comment here on individual cases, because if you appeal – as few do – because there are not many withdrawals – it comes right up to the government, where I am the one who has to take a stand on the individual matter. I do not think that I have had such a matter in the near future in my time as a minister of state. Maybe I can remember wrong if it's one or two. As I said, this is not the ambition of the government. On the contrary, it is important that we have common forces that protect the roads but also a strong municipal and state responsibility. It is therefore important to make it clear here in Parliament that there are no saving directives or other thoughts about privatising the road network. On the other hand, when a new road is being built – and now new roads are being built, because we invest more in infrastructure – it can be that an old one that is a few hundred meters long no longer has the same meaning. Then Trafikverket, and previously Vägverket, have been commissioned – this has been the case for a long time – to initiate a discussion about the formation of a joint venture and a takeover will take place. However, there are strict rules on how this is to be done, and there are also fairly carefully regulated how such a handover is to take place. Among other things, if the road has a neglected maintenance, it must be repaired before it is handed over. I therefore do not share this concern at all. On the other hand, I will be monitoring developments closely. I am, of course, following up the individual articles that exist and ensuring that we do not have an ongoing privatisation of the road network. For me as a social democrat, it would be a different development. I note that the Centre Party is also committed to the fight to avoid a far-reaching privatisation of society in this case. I'm grateful for that, too.
i-919bac20d355696a-167	Madam President, I would like It's a matter of being thorough, isn't it, Minister? The Center Party does not want to contribute to a policy of evicting state-wide responsibility for road maintenance or other social work on those who happen to live along a road or in some other place where the combination is sparsely built, little activity and a square approach. After all, I take the view that he does not want to contribute to this either. That is a good thing, and I think it provides clarity in this discussion. It is good that we raised it and that the Government was given the opportunity to clarify the position of the government. Nevertheless, I think this sends signals to the Government's expert authority and implementing authority – Trafikverket. Then one might ask, the Minister, why it is reported, in this case from colleague Staffan Danielsson, about national road 801 in Östergötland. We've also heard it from elsewhere. Then you have to go back to a report that the Government quite rightly pointed out. It is possible to find the political cloon or the driving force. I think it is very important that the Government and the Center Party reject it. It says that the cost of the Finnish Transport Administration and the State would be reduced by SEK 90 million if the traffic volume were to be set at a certain level and SEK 280 million per year if it were to be set at another slightly higher level. It is therefore a cost transfer of just over a quarter of a billion over to road communities or people living along the roads, a little depending on the volume of traffic you count on. Here is the interesting thing, the Government: the reduction is due to the fact that the cost of keeping a single road is lower than a general one and that the individuals concerned may take a certain part of the cost. I interpret this on p. 26 of this study as a passover of costs to people who have the misfortune of living along road 801 or somewhere else. Of course, they feel that the state and society are retreating from their responsibility to keep them also with accessible roads. Speaking of quotes, the Government, that is precisely what Prime Minister Löfven said yesterday, which means that even city dwellers want to be able to go out in the country, and then things have to work too. Then it also includes roads such as 801? But it is not this quote that we are here to discuss. In fact, when you come to this cost estimate of just over a quarter of a billion a year, the DNA in this report is traced to the so-called BREV investigation that was spinning in 1999-2000. I do not remember who was then Social Democratic Minister of Infrastructure, or Minister of Communications as it was probably then called. That was before Messing Messing. But this minister was forcefully forced to retreat and retreat from these investigative ambitions. My question to the Government is: Has the BREV investigation in any way survived in a drawer or paper chew, and is it still spinning? Because it is this DNA, the government, that we must stop.
i-919bac20d355696a-176	Madam President, I would like We can all express ourselves a little unhappily at times, Minister. It also happens that center parties do so, which perhaps Social Democrats sometimes poke on and drum on. The Prime Minister lives in Västernorrland and surely has good ambitions. But he expressed himself a little unlucky. He said in one sentence: I am absolutely convinced that we all want to ensure that the whole country survives, not least when urban residents go out and relax in the countryside. Perhaps it is not surprising that there was a discussion about it. It is good that the Government declares that there are no sharp plans and that the transfer that has been discussed should be very cautious or not at all. I would like to highlight that I have a concrete example in my home county of Östergötland in the municipality of Söderköping, where the matter is highly topical and where the Swedish Transport Administration is on the offensive and wants to force on a road of around sixty stakeholders along a five-kilometre asphalt road with a lot of thoroughfare that they are fighting and fighting with all their might. But the process is not stopped. The municipality is said to have accepted this at an early stage. It is a municipality governed by Social Democrats and Moderates. The question remains. No smoke without fire. I just wanted to contribute to this debate by saying that the issue is important. It is relevant to highlight it, as Anders Åkesson does. And we have a concrete example in Söderköping that raises serious concerns. If the Government could go and visit Söderköping, look at the road and calm those who live there, it would be very good. They are not calm today; they are very worried.
i-919bac20d355696a-182	Madam President, I would like With regard to the overall debate on quotes, I believe that enough, including center parties, on Twitter have lamented the Twitter coup, or the quote coup as it is now called in the media. It's about knowing how to pick a sentence out of the context. It is sad that it is being done in a situation where the government is making a big investment in Swedish rural areas. That should be applauded by the Center Party. This is done when we actually have a government that invests in rural areas and ensures that we have a food strategy and infrastructure investments and that moves out government services and government agencies in the country to an extent that never happened during the time that Maud Olofsson or, for that matter, Annie Lööf was in government position. For me as a small-timer, who grew up in Kosta with 800 inhabitants, the marked rural effort that we are now making under the Social Democratic leadership of government is a welcome development. Therefore, it is important to express yourself correctly on the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Administration. There are no saving requirements for the Finnish Transport Agency when it comes to transferring or privatising roads. There is an old investigation, and Anders Åkesson referred to the BREV investigation. I note that during the time of the alliance government, the RÄV project was launched. That's where the figure of 2,000 miles comes from. The evidence was extracted from an investigation report, and it must have been Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, who was then a minister of state. I have been clear in the interpellation response here and in other public contexts that we have no ambition to either make savings or for saving reasons transfer paths to individuals. I think it is important, not least for those who follow the debate, that it is clear that out of 57 700 km of road in Sweden 43 600 are already individual roads. The majority of the country's road network are individual roads. In cases where transfers are made– it can be done in individual cases– it is, as I understand it, usually in situations where one chooses to build a new road and then lets the remaining part of the road be taken over by a community. There are detailed rules on how a transfer is to take place. There are also possibilities to appeal. That is also one of the reasons why I cannot comment on the individual project that exists to Staffan Danielsson. Then I'll be pissed off myself at the moment that I would decide, if the residents there choose to appeal. That will always be the case, of course. Like all other works, the Finnish Transport Agency will constantly try to see where the responsibility is best, but I assume that the agreement between the Swedish National Association of Individual Roads, the Swedish Municipalities and the Swedish Transport Administration is based. What has been said is the following: The State should be responsible for public roads in rural areas and for a comprehensive urban road network. The municipalities should be primarily responsible for urban road maintenance, with the exception of the overall state road network. . Individual road managers should be responsible in rural areas, with the main benefit for property owners in their vicinity. It is the agreement that was reached, and it was made in 2012. If I do not remember wrong, it is even the case that this comes from an older agreement, which was concluded at some point in the 1990s. I think it is a sensible distribution. I think it is a good thing to try sometimes whether the division of responsibilities should be different, but I would like to reassert strongly thoughts or plans for the privatisation of the road network. For me as a social democrat, it is not at all within reach.
i-919bac20d355696a-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarity, Minister. The government strayed into yesterday's rural bill a little. I do not know how much of a cooperation government there is, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when one half of the government – the Green Party – the day before goes out calling for strong tax deductions and saying: We would also like to see this as rural policy. It is certainly well thought out in the rural bill presented by the government yesterday, but it is, in fact, lacking in concreteness to some extent. However, we will deal with it, as well as all the other proposals that the government presents to Parliament, seriously and provide it with concreteness and sharpness. Thank you for your clarity, Minister. The government and the government are not prepared to evict roadmaster responsibility at the knees of people. That's good. We take it on board and will of course follow it up. However, there are reasons to note what the Finnish Transport Administration itself says in connection with the national plan it presented last August, the Government. This government as well as governments before – I think the Government should be honest and say – pluses at the level of SEK 100 – 150 billion for each new decision on the national plan, and despite that, the Swedish Transport Administration says that at the end of the planning period it aims for, i.e. 2029, the smaller parts of the state road network will erode due to too little maintenance. Road capital disappears. There is also reason to remind the Government that there are elements that are good in the report we have discussed. These are elements that have been developed in cooperation between the National Association of Individual Roads, the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and the State. For example, it is about simplifying the surveying process around this type of process – the so-called Finnish model. Thank you very much for a good debate. I feel a little calmer.
i-919bac20d355696a-199	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Åkesson and Staffan Danielsson for their commitment. Anders Åkesson and I have it in common that we are small-timers and used to travel on small forest roads and individual roads. That is why I believe that we both are passionate about good conditions and that a good standard is maintained, not only for the residents but also, of course, for a strong forest industry or tourism. It's incredibly important. This is also one of the reasons why, when the Finnish Transport Administration chose to present its proposal for a national plan itself, I paid attention to what the Swedish Transport Administration writes, namely that at the end of the planning period there is a risk that the capillary road network – I think that is the term used – will have a reduced standard. That was one of the reasons why we, as the government, put an extra 100 million in the budget bill, which was put forward afterwards, over three years. There was a total of 300 million – the so-called pothole money, that is, money that was directly earmarked to improve the quality of the very smaller road network. I was recently up in Dorotea and Vilhelmina, where traders, municipal politicians and locals could testify to a number of roads that had really poor quality. It is of course incredibly important that we in Sweden ensure that not least important export industry, but also tourism, has good roads. We shall also ensure that we have the resources for good road maintenance for road safety reasons. In fact, I am convinced that the Social Democracy and the Center have common goals, and I hope that we will also work together in that direction. It is needed for us to be a country that holds together from city to country, and that is probably one of the reasons why we in this government are investing very much in the possibility of the whole country being able to live. We move government services, we invest throughout the country and we ensure with a food strategy and a rural strategy that the whole country will have vitality. It's necessary.
