i-10913770f7859f98-2	Mr President, I would like to This is a report that we will hopefully take a decision on later today in this House. There have been no motions, but it is a united committee that supports the report. I can express a great deal of satisfaction about that. The reason why I still want to say a few words about this is that I think there are some things that it may be important to highlight in connection with this report. It can be perceived as a small question of how unemployment insurance regulates positions of trust, for example. But it may also be important to bear in mind that even small issues can often have a decisive impact on our social development. Workable unemployment insurance is an important part of a functioning labour market and a very important part of what we see as the Swedish model. It is important for the transformation power of the Swedish economy, and it has played a very important role in making Sweden as successful as it is. A lot of people are watching Sweden and the Swedish model. Here, unemployment insurance is included as an important, but perhaps not crucial, part of a coherent chain that delivers power in Swedish society. Another important part of understanding the Swedish model and society is, of course, our democracy, which is built up by a large number of elected representatives. It is very difficult to think away the elected representatives' part of Swedish social development. This can apply in trade union organisations, in political organisations, in municipal bodies and at all levels of political life, where it is the elected representatives who, so to speak, raise the Swedish social model and Swedish democracy. By deciding on this report, we will simply regulate the relationship of elected representatives in unemployment insurance. Then I think that this is not just a small issue but that it is actually a systemic issue – that people who take on positions of trust and actually assume their responsibilities should not suffer worse conditions if the accident is there and they suffer unemployment. This may not be a big problem, and perhaps not many individuals have suffered this over the years, but I think it is important once again to keep a few things in mind. One thing is that for the individual it is always about 100%. Individual elected representatives, who, for example, through a trade union mandate, have gained the confidence of their comrades to take responsibility for running matters and then, in connection with unemployment, suffer from not receiving the compensation they had thought they would receive when they are members of an unemployment fund, of course, to 100 percent. Even their families, for whom they may be dependent, have faced very difficult situations over the years when this system – this hole in our security system – has not worked. We have not been able to take care of these people. If we have this kind of situation, where individuals are severely affected when they take on this kind of responsibility, we also risk our ability to recruit elected representatives in the future. In this way, I believe that this has been systemically important. This was one part of this case, i.e. the substance of the matter. However, there are a few more parts of unemployment insurance that we are now going in and regulating. It has to do with people who retire and suffer unemployment. They have been severely affected in a way that has not been predicted by the way the insurance has been designed, and we are correcting this. There are also some other minor details that we are correcting in this report. But perhaps the most important part is how to handle elected representatives in insurance. It may also be appropriate to mention a few words about the process of correcting these problems. The fact that these holes – this error – are in the insurance system is nothing new that we have discovered during the current term of office. I personally have seen in my job as a trade union representative comrades who have suffered from these errors in insurance, and I have highlighted and pushed this issue trade unionically for many years. When I ended up in this House in 2006, I continued to pursue this issue. The year before I entered Parliament – 2005 – a united labour market committee announced to the government that these abuses should be corrected. Mr President, I would like to What strikes me is that although this may not have been considered a major issue, a great many people have agreed that it is an important issue to resolve. If it is an important issue, and if there is agreement, one could imagine that it would go very quickly and be easy to solve it. But that is not always the reality. One conclusion that can possibly be drawn is that it is possible to achieve greater success on issues where there is a conflict about them and that issues on which there is agreement risk getting far back into the queue when much is to be resolved in this House. During the two terms of office following this announcement, it was working on the matter in an investigation after an investigation. It was both a small study – a one-man inquiry – that put forward proposals on this issue and a large parliamentary inquiry that made proposals on this issue. Then we have worked on this issue also during this parliamentary term, and hopefully we will come to a close with the vote this afternoon. I think that there is reason for us legislators to think a little bit about how we might unnecessarily allow some issues to drag out over time, when we could actually have come to a conclusion far earlier. But you shouldn't cry over spilled milk. You should be happy about the progress you make, be positive and look forward. That is why it is with great satisfaction, Mr President, that, after almost a quarter of a century's work on this issue, I shall hopefully have to conclude this afternoon's vote. I am therefore very pleased to support the proposal in today's report.
i-10913770f7859f98-15	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with much of what Patrik Björck has already said, not least in the description of history. This is a subject on which there has been debate and discussion for a very long time. Both I and Patrik Björck were involved in the large parliamentary social security inquiry that dealt with this issue. I remember the way we discussed. There were suggestions on how to deal with these issues which were extremely complex and almost impossible to interpret. I was one of those who actually took part in the drafting of this proposal, which is very simple and very straightforward. There is one thing that I might think is a little strange, if I link back to what Mr Björck here pointed out about this issue being based on an announcement from 2005. So we had the major parliamentary social security inquiry, which was ongoing during the time of the Alliance Government and which delivered its final report in February 2015. Patrik Björck says that the question is close to his heart and the government, and so I wonder why it has been three years since they had a completely ready and very simple proposal presented. It had all the team clauses in place, which is not very many. It was an uncomplicated and simple solution that could have been submitted to the Riksdag almost immediately when the Social Insurance Committee proposal was received. However, this was not done. Instead, in 2015, the Ministry of Labour appointed a new review of the same issue that the Parliamentary Social Security Investigation had already resolved in a good way. It was a unanimous resolution in which both employers' and employees' representatives and all political parties supported the proposal for a very simple and smooth solution. Yet the government did nothing but set up another investigation that looked at exactly the same thing. When that investigation was completed, the same proposals were made as those of the parliamentary social security inquiry. I find that a little strange. However, I agree with Patrik Björck in general. I think we should be happy that we are resolving this issue. The fact is that it was very complicated, not least for those who had trade union or political positions of trust and at the same time became unemployed. Many were therefore forced to leave their positions of trust because otherwise they did not receive an unemployment fund, and such a situation is very unfortunate. It is quite important that the individual who has this type of mission can continue to do so. Not least emotionally, it is important that when you get rid of your job you still have a job — and can also be useful. When discussing these issues, I also think it is important for politicians to actually have experience of losing their jobs and seeing how it works. So I think it is a good thing that a united parliament and a united committee are behind this. I naturally support the proposal.
i-10913770f7859f98-22	Mr President, I would like to As I said, perhaps I did not intend to have a debate on a unanimous report, but for the sake of fact I would like to inform those who listen that Jan Ericson has not quite understood the issue. The proposal we are going to vote on today is not the same as that put forward by the Parliamentary Social Security Committee. That is a completely different proposal. Since the proposal put forward by the PSFU did not pass a review by the Ministry of Labour and others' lawyers, we had to revise it, and it is a completely different proposal that is now being put forward. The proposal put forward by the PSFU was based on securing the income you had prior to the appointment of trust, and this proposal is structured in a completely different way. It assures the actual position of trust. So there are two diametrically different proposals, and it may be good for Jan Ericson to hear so that he knows what he is voting about this afternoon. However you turn things around, Mr President, I agree that three years is a long time to deal with this issue. However, it is shorter than the eight years that Jan Ericson's party had. I do not want in any way to excuse the fact that it took three years, but it is in any case much better than the eight years during which the previous government was unable to do anything. As I said, Mr President, I just wanted to correct the substance of the matter. I am also very grateful that we have a united parliament. I hope Members have read the report so that they know what they are voting about.
i-10913770f7859f98-26	Mr President, I would like to I guess that was a little bit of a truth with modification. It is simply a matter of comparing the legislative proposals, that is, the investigation that was put forward and what is contained in the report we are debating today. Then you can see that they are very similar. This is based on a very simple solution. The government simply says that you can count on the time you have had positions of trust when you calculate normal working hours, earnings and income. Otherwise, the practical questions of application must be resolved. That is all this proposal means, and that is, in fact, exactly what we said in the social security inquiry. I would therefore like to say that this proposal is completely identical to that of the social security inquiry. However, it has been formulated a little differently in the legal clause itself. However, we do not have to argue about it. The important thing is that we get a good proposal.
i-10913770f7859f98-29	Mr President, I would like to No, we certainly should not argue about it, but this proposal is similar to the proposal put forward by the 2011 investigation – which was not implemented by the previous government. It is not the same proposal as that put forward by the PSFU. For those who want to, just read the various proposals that exist; we do not need to debate this. I just wanted to correct this so that Members know what they are voting about.
i-10913770f7859f98-32	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to debate a motion for a resolution containing a number of proposals under the very extensive heading of defence policy. To be honest, it sounds broader and deeper than what is actually presented in the report, although there are many interesting ideas here. Let me begin, however, when we now have to talk about defence policy, by making the reflection that I believe the next few weeks will be crucial and important. In the near future we have to look forward to Ingemar Wahlberg's important investigation into all material projects and the necessary priorities. Then comes the Swedish Armed Forces' Annual Report for 2017, where we can get substantial answers about how the ability building works. Then comes the long-term perspective study, which looks forward to 2030 and has already been warned of a relatively reduced capacity after 2020. We also have the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base for 2019. I hope that all these documents will be clear, clear and frank. For my part, I am convinced that they will show unequivocally that Sweden must do more. Further efforts will be needed to secure and develop our country's defence capabilities, and we have a duty to do so. Therefore, we moderates have also said that in the next ten-year period, additional funding is needed which means that Sweden's defence budget will be equal to 2% of GDP. From the government side, there is very little talk about this. My call is that today is a good day for social democrats and environmentalists to say what they want to do! It is a defence policy in its deepest and truest sense. Mr President, I would like to Let me now focus on two aspects of this report in which the Moderates and the Alliance come forward with good proposals and reservations and where we face a collective opposition from S, MP, V and SD. First of all, cooperation between the Swedish Armed Forces and the police must be improved. In recent days, various kinds of statements have been heard from the government side, and it is important that they are followed up with content and structure. We must make the most effective use of the comprehensive security-building resources available. We cannot afford to allow old locks to hinder such development. In a situation where we are faced with cross-sectoral threats, we must be able to face them with all the resources of society and not have a drainpipe thinking. However, it is important that it is very clear which authority has the ultimate responsibility for planning and managing operations. Our proposals concerning improved collaboration between the armed forces and the police do not mean that the personnel of the Armed Forces should be put into sharp action against, for example, gang criminality. Instead, defence personnel shall be used for ancillary tasks. This, in turn, could free up the resources of the police, who could then focus precisely on their core business. Mr President, I would like to There are indeed burning cars in Sweden, and in pictures many of them resemble burning vehicles in Vancouver. For us Moderates, reality is always the most important – not the debate about the reflection of the same. On the part of the Moderates, we have previously highlighted the proposal to investigate the possibility of having a special police home just like what exists in Denmark. Police Home Guards in Denmark are trained in traffic regulation, guarding, description, police radio, arrest rules, self-defense and defence. The most common tasks for Politihjemmeværnet are to assist the police with external border control, traffic regulation and lockdowns, and participate in search and observation missions. It is always the police who put the Politihjemmeværnet in if necessary and who directs the efforts. In the present report, we put forward two further proposals. The first is that the exchange of knowledge and experience between the Armed Forces' special units and the police's task force should be developed and deepened. This is central to the present situation with grey zone problems, where the border between the state of war and peace is not clear. The ability to face asymmetric threats can be either a military or a police task depending on the actual circumstances. For example, Mr President, terrorism committed without any connection to another state is a police task. If, on the other hand, it is possible to determine that it is a matter of state terrorism, such action can be seen as part of an armed attack on the kingdom and thus constitutes a task for the Swedish Armed Forces. The Moderates also want to set up an investigation that looks at how the collaboration between the Swedish Armed Forces and the police can be better across the board. Such a review should include examining how legislation works and how it can be improved, looking at how civil-military cooperation works in other relevant countries, and proposing changes and improvements. Important in this context is to ensure that the core activities of the defence are not neglected when its resources are used in other contexts. The second issue I would like to highlight is international collaboration on total defence, mainly at a Nordic level. When it comes to military defence, there is a Nordic cooperation that has deepened in several ways in recent years, both bilaterally and with several countries at the same time. A good example of this is the cross-border training of the North Calott with Finland and Norway and in the south together with Denmark. By exercising together and using each other's resources, we can carry out larger and more complex exercises, thereby enhancing the defense's ability and learning lessons that are useful in case of a sharp situation. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday there was a foreign policy debate. I have to admit that Minister Wallström probably made some appearance, not only around the Baltic Sea, but also in the rest of Europe and in the NATO circle, with his very careless statements. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to make it clear that it is no secret that the Moderates want Sweden to become a NATO member. Through a Swedish NATO membership, we could have a much deeper Nordic cooperation than is possible today because Sweden and Finland are not NATO members. It is good that the government has come forward with Sweden and Finland having a common planning that extends beyond what is called peacetime conditions. However, there are no joint defence guarantees, so we cannot be sure of getting help – or of being able to provide help, for that matter – in the event of a crisis or war. Mr President, social democrats, environmentalists, left-wing parties and Swedish democrats! We can plan as much as we want, but we can only know that we have others alongside us with the binding security guarantee contained in Article 5 within NATO. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also understand this. Mr President, I would like to From the Alliance, we have pointed out the need to strengthen Nordic cooperation also in the field of civil defence. We would like to instruct the Government to conduct a review of Swedish and Nordic resources that can be co-used and which areas should be prioritised. Mr President, I would like to I commend all the reservations of the Alliance. In particular, I would like to underline the Alliance's joint reservation 3 on defence capabilities under paragraph 2 of the report.
i-10913770f7859f98-53	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear Hans Wallmark. Words are good, but who, for example, closed the emergency services in 2012? It was pretty unwise, wasn't it? We're trying to re-introduce the emergency services. You can also add that the equipment was destroyed. Funding is an essential element of defence, both in civil and military matters. In addition to the other investments, during this ten-year period we are investing 5 billion a year to cover the old equipment holes – there is a shortage of approximately 50 billion. We want to go up to 21⁄2% of GDP in the next ten years. If we're going to build a defense that's credible, we need more brigades. In order to increase the number of brigades, we need to increase the volume of military service, eventually up to 18 000– 19 000, in order to be able to re-assess an increased number of brigades. It is not possible if these resources are not provided. We can discuss what ability we should have. But what is pleasing is that it seems that all parties have joined our line. As you all know, we were the only ones to propagate for a stronger defense. Today, only the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats are serious about these efforts – there's probably a billion people's difference between the investments. I would also like to make another point in this context. We should have a balanced defence and a composition that creates a high threshold effect. We do not want to be part of NATO – it is known to everyone. We believe that NATO membership increases tensions in the Baltic Sea region – we have said this a number of times. We have also said that we want Nordic cooperation in relation to the material systems, but we should not deepen this cooperation or be dependent on each other. We want to see a defence alliance – a defence alliance – with Finland. It's also known. We want to build a number of brigades. We want to strengthen Gotland immediately with a battalion artillery. The anti-aircraft systems will come to Mikael Jansson later in the debate. By building this in a covenant with Finland – so to speak, beyond peace-time – we believe that we are creating a high threshold effect. It could be disrespectful. We can exercise our freedom of alliance in our neighbourhood and make it credible. That is our view. In the situation that we are now in, there are actually two options, which we have outlined in the past. The defence appropriation is fixed and the objectives – defence capabilities – will be adapted to the defence allocation. Instead, Mr President, we want to define the objectives and defence capabilities and then have a budget that adapts to what is said that the defence should be able to cope with. Today, the opposite is true: - Here's a bag of money. What can you do? - That's not enough. That is how this is constantly being discussed. You have to take a much deeper grip on it. I have previously gone through political governance with the so-called Implementation Group, for which I claimed that Allan Widman was chairman, which he was not and which he corrected. I'm not going back into this. But the suites of what was decided then are still there, and it was a gross mistake to do so. I just said that we should not join NATO, and someone might ask a question about it. Hans Wallmark did a little exposé, as some say I do – and so do I! He was talking about the military as support to the police. What is the view of the Swedish democrats on this? We are in favour of the police in certain situations being able to request assistance from the military. What help should this be about? I have answered that question in interviews with journalists who have asked if the military should storm in with automatic weapons. No, that's not what we meant. The military can do much else to support the police. You can protect their vehicles. You can transport equipment. You can protect ambulances and fire trucks coming in so that the police can do their job. Today, quite a lot of resources are allocated in the event of intervention or intervention in some area to protect their own vehicles or their own equipment. This could be done by the military if the police so request if the situation becomes uncontrollable. A protection zone can be designated directly. In this way, the Swedish Democrats believe that the military can stand if the police end up in such a situation as to ask for help. Now it's clear-- we're in favour of this. We also want to invest a lot in research, for example on drones. It is something that the war units will have great joy in the future. We don't see in front of us individual reconnaissance platoons to detect where the enemy is. We're looking at little drones, perhaps the size of a bumblebee, that give us a completely different tactical flexibility in the war units. Therefore, we invest and will invest a great deal in research of various kinds. As I said before, we want to increase the number of conscripts. Then we must open recruitment offices in Norrland. We've been exercising on that before, but you didn't think that was good. Some have other solutions, mobile recruitment offices and so on. We think we should have recruitment offices in Norrland linked to the large number of conscripts we want to bring in. Your proposal is based on a small number of conscripts. From your point of view, you can understand that, but from our point of view it is not good enough to go around with such a bus. I said we need to coordinate our defenses in the North. But that should not mean defence obligations, apart from Finland. Then there have been newspaper writings about probability assessments. I fully agree with the Major General – if he is rightly quoted in the paper – that politicians should not be dealing with probability assessments. It's completely uninteresting. Rather, it is interesting who has the ability to do something to Sweden. Does Germany, France, England or the United States have it? Does Russia have it? Yeah, and it could be quick. They have an ability. How likely it is to be here and there is absolutely uninteresting. He's absolutely right, I think. Nor can we ignore the fact that the Armed Forces have a task in the event of an external threat and in some cases also help the police. But the greatest threat to our way of life, our freedom and our values lies within the borders of the country. And what happened there? We Swedish democrats think that you have ignored, actually ignored, your own people in terms of security within the country. We have parallel societies and split up. This is also some kind of threat. The other night we could hear the police themselves say: Stockholm is full of lost souls. Looks like we're supposed to protect people so they can live in their bubbles. Attitudes have become much rougher. More and more people are arming themselves. The shootings are increasing. In five years, weapons seizures have increased by 50 percent. Every three days, a cop resigns. Does this have any bearing on the security and defence of our country? Yeah, we think so. This has consequences. Mr President, I would like to Some politicians call themselves naive and blame you for being childish. We were a little childish, so we destroyed this and did not give priority to the Swedish population, which we were appointed to do. And this goes on and on. We were a little childish, but please give us confidence again and we won't be childish anymore. In conclusion, I can at least congratulate the Moderates on finding their election strategy, namely a copy machine. We think this is a good thing, because it means getting our policy out.
i-10913770f7859f98-80	Mr President, I would like to It is a mixed bouquet presented by Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats. Let me sort something among flowers, leaves and weeds. It is interesting to listen to Roger Richtoff when he almost devalues the defence preparation and its work, where it has come to the security policy conclusion that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. I'm not going to go into it any more. But Mikael Jansson is due to give a speech here in a moment. He can then develop his position and point of view as a member of the Committee on Defence. At the moment, it seems that there are in all two lines represented by the Swedish Democrats in this House. With regard to the interaction between police and defence forces, I think we are developing our position very well in our motion. We believe that an investigation should be set up to look at how the police and the Armed Forces can deepen their cooperation in, for example, terrorist attacks. Cooperation between the Armed Forces and the police must be improved. There are today positive examples of collaboration where the police use the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopter resource. I think that is the kind of thing that could be used. We are in favour of looking at how to have an in-depth collaboration between the armed forces and the police. However, I note that the Swedish Democrats have their own reservation and that the united Left rejects our motion. Mr President, I would like to NATO membership would not make Sweden safer. We'd be more exposed. That is why military alliance freedom serves us well. Together with Finland, we have this position and will stand by it. It is not Roger Richtoff who has said this, even though he is spiritually part of that idea. It was Mrs Wallström who said this yesterday. Then I have to ask Roger Richtoff a question: how is security enhanced by joining a defence alliance with a country, Finland, but do we renounce the cooperation with 29 other countries that NATO membership would involve?
i-10913770f7859f98-85	Mr President, I would like to Where do I start? Well, I can start at the end. We have said a number of times now, Mr Wallmark, that we believe that tensions are increasing in the Baltic Sea region by making the Baltic Sea a NATO sea in practice. We have NATO countries all around us. Finland will probably join NATO if we do – we do not know but probably. By building our own strong defence, as we want and as Finland does, we are raising a threshold effect. We can then act on the basis of our freedom of alliance and be a detour in our part of Europe. This is not just the opinion of the Swedish Democrats. There are, of course, leading figures such as Hans Blix, who fully shares our view in this paragraph, and he is, by the way, liberal. Mr President, I would like to That Wallmark would like to be on the same side as Erdo is allowed to stand for you, but it is not just rice or rose there. Then I did not say that we object to the fact that nothing can be excluded. I told you to end up with probability calculations. It's a huge difference, Hans Wallmark, to end up with probability calculations and to sign that you can't rule anything out.
i-10913770f7859f98-89	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the criticism of the defence committee and this in terms of probability, Roger Richtoff also sounds on this point as Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs. My call is for that to be clarified by the Swedish Democrats. You seem to be taking two different positions at the moment, one represented by Mikael Jansson in the defence committee and the other that Roger Richtoff is now speaking out for. I would like to make two points with regard to the NATO discussion. The first is that it is said that Sweden as a NATO member would create a safer climate around the Baltic Sea. I mean that the power, the authority and responsibility for where Sweden's security policy decisions are to be made from Stockholm and from Helsinki to the east have been moved. I'm not going to contribute to that. I will not open up to such a debate. The second is that the entire Swedish defence strategy is based on the fact that we alone can try to stop an opponent. To do this, cooperation and cooperation with other countries are needed. I mean, then, Mr President, that Finland is a good thing, but it is not enough. It is a completely different strength to be able to trust the 29 countries that make up NATO today. The problem with the NATO debate that Roger Richtoff is also taking part in is that if something serious happens, we believe, hope, wish and want to be prepared to appeal to others to come to our aid so that we can do it. But we can never know. As a NATO member, we can only know that others are coming to our aid. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats are clear, because it shows a significant difference between the party he represents and the party I represent.
i-10913770f7859f98-96	Mr President, I would like to I'm happy about that. Let me do it again. The defense committee says it can't be ruled out. I say that one should not work with probability calculations and talk about less or greater probability. That the Defence Committee says that it cannot be excluded is fine with me, but it is pointless to work with probability calculations of how likely it is. Instead, discuss the ability! Where is the ability to do something in Sweden? You do not want a NATO debate, but every time it comes up. I understand your point of view, but you find it difficult to listen to what we are saying. What are the reasons? I'm not gonna repeat it again. The Moderates are very fond of the new head of MSB. I'm going to ask him on occasion if he's still vomiting when he sees the leader of one of the biggest parties in parliament. But I'll wait until we're on the committee. MSB made a video. Here it is said that, as a consequence of the disinformation campaign, the Swedish political arena is polarized, and populist political forces are strengthened. At the same time, pictures of party leader Jimmie Åkesson and NMR are shown. It is a bottomless incompetence if you do not understand the consequences of such a film. Now MSB has removed the film, but it remains on the net forever. This is well written in the newspapers, and one can immerse oneself in it. Now I cannot ask Mr Wallmark a question about how he views this, but perhaps we can come back to that.
i-10913770f7859f98-102	Mr President, I would like to An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood. ..................................................... This is the overall assessment of the Defense Committee. All parties except one share this description from the first part of the report, which came just before Christmas. Our deteriorating security situation requires increased focus on our national defence capabilities. Important steps need to be taken. There have been many steps, but more needs to be done to strengthen our defence in the long term. It is about continued increased defence grants, a Swedish NATO membership and a developed civil defence. Total defence concerns and covers the whole of society. We need to work to develop people's attachment, understanding of how the international situation affects Sweden and the commitment to which defence force we should have in Sweden in the short and long term. The continued lack of clarity from the government about Sweden's security policy has a major impact on the conditions for defence policy. The question is whether we can achieve a constructive approach that holds together the two important aspects of security policy and defence policy in the near future. We are in a very vulnerable position, which requires leadership that is committed, clear, informed and knowledgeable. The last few months have shown possible improvement points. The perception that we have insufficient resources, that there is much to do on the material side and that the dimensioning of the Swedish Armed Forces is too small is enough for most assessors. Cost developments are flashing, and a long-term approach to the defence economy is something we should seriously discuss. We should also discuss how this is in relation to our growth and how the countries around us choose to prioritise defence. Sweden is at risk of an increased capacity gap after 2020, and it risks becoming even bigger after 2025. Future defence decisions, for the period 2021-2025 and beyond, need to provide clear guidance. Planning conditions need to be provided so that preparations and strategies can be implemented on time. It takes time to implement a substantial strengthening of Swedish defence capabilities. Our Baltic neighbours have taken important decisions to increase their national spending and to increase the share of defence in the overall GDP. They have gone from less than 1% to 2% in a few years. Here we have a lot to relate to. The Center Party has contributed to three defence arrangements. We see that more needs to be done, and in ongoing defence work we aim for the target to land at least on the Nordic average, just over 1.5 per cent of GDP. We are talking about a significant reinforcement of at least 80 billion in the next defence decision. All armed forces need to increase their war capacity, and the mobilization capacity of the entire organisation in case of increased preparedness needs to be strengthened. We need to think in a whole country perspective. What areas of education do we need to prioritise? How can it vary from area to area where there is military activity? What is the ability to move within the country and to our neighbours? With higher defence grants and a Swedish NATO membership, the Center Party takes responsibility for improving Sweden's overall defence capabilities and for resisting the threats in our neighbourhood. We support the long-term target of at least 2% of GDP, and we safeguard the transatlantic link. We also want to see a developed unit structure, which is why in today's report we propose to carry out an investigation into further regiments in strategically important places. It is about the Arctic environment in the north, about winter ability and about the conditions for all units to be able to handle Sweden's different climates. It is also about Midnorrland and Central Sweden where the conditions are now developmentable in terms of presence and defence activities. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is because Sweden is building security together with other countries and that our defence and security cooperation is developing, not least in a Nordic perspective but also with NATO. We see that more needs to be done. It is important to strengthen Nordic cooperation and find common solutions, not only with Finland but with all Nordic countries and the Baltics, in order to strengthen our neighbourhood. Mr President, I would like to It is only when all Nordic countries are members of NATO that the full potential of Nordic defence cooperation is realised. Only then can we conduct joint defence planning. I hope that the parties that are currently outside the search for Swedish membership of NATO will also realise this. It is good and important to deepen our cooperation with Finland. This applies both in peacetime and beyond peacetime. But a bilateral alliance cannot deter a major and aggressive enemy and can never replace a Swedish NATO membership. Our common challenge around the Baltic Sea means that we need to work much more together. It is about practicing how we can give the Baltic countries help and receive help from them, how we will develop the security policy dialogue and how the civilian preparedness should find systems and processes that are tangent to each other and reconcile. In the new security situation we are living with, the European security regime is threatened and called into question. Many activities are being carried out against our country and against the other European countries in order to add to the mistrust. So far today's debate has shown examples of parties in the Swedish parliament that do not go forward in a positive spirit but rather blackwash and describe the development destructively. There are many things that mean a positive development in Sweden, but at the same time we must take serious account of the events that are negative. The fact that we have a defence agreement that is constructive and broad is extremely important when it comes to Swedish defence policy. Swedish membership of NATO is a way of showing solidarity with our Baltic friends, our eastern neighbours and the rest of Europe. We have much to gain from this when it comes to gaining credibility in our area. Not least, there would be conflict retention in the Baltic Sea. We could look further forward in time and build friendly ties with more countries, even when it comes to developing a common defence policy. I support our reservation 6 and agree with reservations 3, 7 and 11. I hope that this debate will help Sweden take important steps seriously and in the near future to lay the foundations for proper development of the Swedish defence system.
i-10913770f7859f98-125	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 10. The Left Party has already welcomed the fact that the direction of the Swedish defence has changed from the form of an intervention defence to a territorial defence. In the report, the committee underlines that the single most important thing during the defence-oriented period 2016 to 2020 is that the operational capability of the armed forces is increased and that the overall capability of the total defence is ensured. The Left Party believes that there is a need to strengthen total defence, in particular civil defence. The Left Party defends the military freedom of alliance – a freedom of alliance that served us well and which meant that Sweden had avoided war for 200 years. A credible military freedom of alliance requires that we have a Swedish defence with strong popular support. We want to see a defence that has the capacity to maintain control of Swedish territory as well as to meet the various security threats we face and be able to contribute in international efforts to safeguard peace and security. For the Left Party, it is therefore central that the focus should be on strengthening unit operations, not on expensive bragging projects. That is why we have previously said no to JAS aircraft, and that is why we criticise business such as the purchase of Helicopter 14. We welcome the Defence Committee's first interim report Resistance, which makes a series of suggestions on how to strengthen civil defence in a number of areas related to civil defence. This means, among other things, clearer accountability and management conditions, enhanced population protection, improved healthcare and information and cyber security, as well as increased preparedness in food and energy supply, which are necessary measures to strengthen our preparedness in the event of war or crisis. However, we would have liked to see a greater focus on crisis management, for example in the context of a natural disaster caused by climate change, which we feel is a more imminent threat. However, I do not share the preparation's safety policy analysis that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. I believe that this description is unfounded and would rather retain the previous wording that a military attack on Sweden is still unlikely. Triing up the threat picture without any real analysis is, to say the least, remarkable and only creates unnecessary anxiety and fear. Mr President, I would like to I will now turn to talking about the Left Party's reservation 10, which is about the militarisation of the European Union. Sweden has, unfortunately, slowly but surely, increasingly departed from a traditional and successful security policy based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts, support for the UN and solidarity with the Third World. Since our accession to the European Union, Swedish military alliance freedom has been increasingly eroded. Today, we are contributing to the militarisation of the European Union, our cooperation with NATO is being strengthened and there are increasingly questions about the international military operations we are participating in. In 2004, the European Defence Agency (Eda) was established. The Agency's aim is to develop defence capabilities, strengthen cooperation on armaments, strengthen the defence industry in Europe and promote military research and development. Eda is growing, and Sweden has staff on site. We see Eda as part of the increased militarisation of the EU – a development we consider unfortunate. Participation in Pesco is another step in the same direction. Participation in Pesco involves a series of commitments relating to key defence and security policy areas. These include investments in defence equipment, providing support for joint EU efforts and contributing to EU combat groups, accelerating military mobility between countries and carrying out battle group exercises. Both Eda and Pesco have a clear focus where the goal is to build a closer defence union within the EU. The government justifies Swedish participation with complex security policy challenges in Europe. However, the development of an increasingly militarised Union contributes to increased armaments and unrest rather than to a reduction in tensions. Cooperation with other countries and organisations is necessary. The work of the UN Security Council is, of course, central to this work. Sweden could also develop cooperation in the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. It is one of the largest and widest regional security organisations in the world, with 57 participating states. It includes, in addition to the European countries, the United States, Canada, Russia and the former Soviet republics of the Caucasus and Central Asia. Increased Nordic cooperation is both important and requested. The Left Party sees good opportunities to deepen cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, especially Finland, in a number of areas of defence policy. This could mean strengthening the effectiveness and capabilities of both civil and military defence. Nordic cooperation should not replace Swedish capabilities, but should complement each other. The fact that several of the Nordic countries are members of NATO at the same time naturally complicates Nordic defence cooperation. It is therefore important to find ways of increasing cooperation without bringing us closer to NATO. Sweden will stand up for military alliance freedom in earnest and will stop any rapprochement with NATO, which will only help to undermine the credibility of our military alliance freedom. A Swedish NATO membership or, for that matter, further advances would be a major security policy mistake and would instead help to increase tension in our neighbourhood. Sweden would be linked to a nuclear alliance and could be forced into unwanted wars and conflicts. The freedom of military alliances is a prerequisite for Sweden to be able to conduct an independent foreign policy for peace and disarmament and also makes a clear contribution to safeguarding our country's security.
i-A2HjuMoGakbSDJa8k7pCRc	Mr President, I would like to We are debating defence policy. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3829, Amendment No 4, in paragraph 1 and Amendment No 11 on defence logistics. It has previously been quoted in the debate from the Security Policy Report submitted by the Defence Committee on 20 December. There is a statement that an attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. It was agreed on by seven parties. This is something for which we must take heights, and I thought in my speech about what we can do in the short term and in the longer term. When we talk about defence policy, we first need to look at the international situation we are in. It is an increasingly tough security policy situation. Let me remind you a few things. We have Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014, and still – while we are in this Chamber – there is a war going on in Ukraine. We have the systematic impact operations against the Baltic states that Russia is engaged in. We have an almost hysterical rearmament from the Russian side, if you now invest about 5% of the bnp. In short, the world is more worried and dangerous than for much longer. Looking at the situation for Sweden, the Baltic Sea region is an indivisible operating area in the event of conflict. This has been made clear on several occasions, including by Krister Bringéus, who conducted the security policy investigation a couple of years ago. If there is a crisis or at worst a war, Sweden will be drawn into it from day one. We have to understand that. To this we add the new threats of terrorism, organised crime and cyber-attacks where Sweden is attacked. There are 10,000 cyber attacks a month from foreign power where we have far too little protection. There are a wide range of challenges. As far as the latter is concerned, we would need a cybersecurity authority. We need a total defence, military and civilian, to defend us. It's two sides of the same coin. Defense is relatively easy to shut down, but it takes time to build up. We see that the armed forces we have are far too small. We're making great efforts. But it is too small to defend a country as large as Sweden. We are the second largest country after France, but we have far too small a defence force. It has taken time to dismantle it. Now that we see a threat to Sweden for the foreseeable future, there is a level that we need to reach. It is as I and the Christian Democrats see it at some kind of minimum level. A little rough in the ten years' time, around 2030, we see that we need a doubling of the army. We would need brigades in Revinge, Skövde, Boden, Sörmland and Dalarna. We would need special defences of Stockholm and Gotland. Mr President, I would like to We would need a doubling of the number of battleships, a double number of submarines and a naval base on the west coast. Today we can defend Sweden in one place, for example in the event of an attack in the Baltic Sea. But whoever wants to hurt us will try to stop the supplies on the West Coast. Then we must have a fleet and the opportunity to defend ourselves there too. The Air Force should be maintained by at least 100 aircraft. The number of base units needs to be tripled. We can do this by increasing the number of conscripts from today's 4 000 – 5 000 to 10 000 – 12 000. It is also important to point out that we need to increase defence appropriations. They are now at 1%. If we look at our world around us, as the previous speaker was on, they are on quite different levels. In the Baltic countries they are up to 2% and in Poland as well. In Germany, they have decided to step up. In Sweden we need to do the same gradually. If we are to be able to pay the bills and build a defence of that size, long-termism is required. We also need to add the necessary money. We'll build security together. We are working closely with NATO today. That's good, but it's not enough. We cooperate with Finland. That's good, but it's not enough. We need to become a full member of NATO. What happens if Sweden becomes a member of NATO is that we could really join forces. We could have defence planning and planning for a crisis or a war. It is much better to prepare with your friends than to have to improvise in the event of the worst. That is why Krister Bringéus was so clear that Swedish NATO membership would be conflict-resisting. It would reduce the risk of conflict, and it would become more predictable. Mr President, I would like to That is why it is so worrying when we heard yesterday in the foreign policy debate that Foreign Minister Wallström asked how NATO was doing, the guarantees and said that perhaps the NATO community should be discussed. Those were astounding statements. Sweden has close cooperation. We also know that Sweden's own defence capabilities are not enough. It has been a double standard for many years in Sweden where we believe NATO will be able to help us. If we are not members of NATO, there are no guarantees. That is why it is worrying about Mrs Wallström's statements yesterday. Perhaps that is something on which Socialist representatives today can post and explain the text. Is it that Sweden would be more secure with NATO membership? Would it increase the security of our neighbourhood or not? That question would be interesting to be answered. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the issue of security is very important for the Christian Democrats. Security begins in the family. Then comes security in streets and squares but also security against external threats. That is why defence issues are so important. We need to invest in building a functioning strong defence that can provide security for Sweden and contribute to the common security in the outside world but also become a full member of NATO.
i-10913770f7859f98-155	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson says in his speech that security is the most important thing for the Christian Democrats. I wonder how it can feel safe to join an alliance, NATO, which has nuclear weapons as one of its most important strategies. How can it feel safe? How can it be safe to join an alliance that has members such as Hungary, Turkey and Poland? Turkey under Erdo中an oppresses its own population and arrests oppositionists in masses. It has recently entered Syria and attacked the Kurdish region of Afrin and in this way also committed a major violation of international law. How can it be safe to enter into an alliance with members as far away from democracy as you can imagine? How can it feel safe to enter into an alliance in which the United States is the leading nation and which has a president, Donald Trump, who is to say the least unpredictable?
i-10913770f7859f98-158	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Lotta! When it comes to nuclear weapons first, I can provide information. These are individual countries that have nuclear weapons and not NATO. As I said in my speech, we are already working closely with NATO today. Full membership would enable us to gain protection, influence and have joint exercises. This would both increase security for Sweden and also contribute to the security of our neighbouring countries. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Lotta Johnsson Fornarve a question. Would you like to tear up the declaration of solidarity in the Left Party if there were to be a conflict or at worst a war in the Baltic States? SD wants to do it, too. Ever since we joined the European Union, we have said that we will not be neutral. We will act in the same way that we expect us to get help. What about solidarity with the Baltic States, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve? Should military aid be excluded from the beginning? Is it only blankets or food to be sent? Is it the case that you're ruling out the use of military aid? How's that?
i-10913770f7859f98-162	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin with the last question on the declaration of solidarity. The Solidarity Declaration does not only involve military support, but may involve other forms of support that can be given to countries in crisis or conflict. I do not think that military support is the most important thing. I think there are other opportunities here to support countries that are in a difficult situation. I do not think I got a real answer to my question about whether Mikael Oscarsson feels that it is safe to enter an alliance such as NATO, which has undemocratic members such as Poland and Hungary. Above all, I am also thinking of Turkey, which is today attacking its neighbouring country, Syria, and the Kurdish-dominated area there. It is a regime that very much persecutes its own citizens, and it is a very undemocratic country. How can it be safe to be in such an alliance? As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, NATO has nuclear weapons as one of its core strategies. I do not think it feels very safe to join such an alliance. I would also like to ask Mikael Oscarsson if he does not think that Swedish alliance freedom has worked well. Sweden has escaped war for 200 years. Generation after generation has not experienced war. Isn't that proof that the freedom of alliance has worked well? Why should we abandon a winning strategy?
i-10913770f7859f98-166	Mr President, I would like to During the Cold War Sweden was non-aligned because it would aim for neutrality in war. But now it's been a long time since we got away from this. Sweden will not be neutral. Then the question is: What is the purpose of the freedom of alliance? We're not gonna make it on our own. We depend on getting help. Then it is, as I was into, much better to upgrade. Sweden today has a partnership with NATO, and it is much better that we become a full member. Then we can influence, and then we can have a defense plan. The honourable Member will remember what it was like during the Russian Passover a few years ago. Sweden's plan did not come up, but NATO's plan came up. If Sweden becomes a member, we can cooperate. There's a defense alliance available. It's called NATO. There is Norway with, there is Denmark with and there is Poland, Germany and the countries of the Baltic countries with. Sweden would fit in there. We could strengthen security both for the Swedish people and for the outside world. The issue of standing up and solidarity is important. It works like that in reality. If we don't do it, who will do it for Sweden? The honourable Member is aware that we can send other things. But if, in the worst case, there is a war or a crisis and we are going to have it, would we just want blueberry soup and blankets? We also want military help in that case. This is where you have to think. It is worrying that SD and the Left Party in the Swedish Parliament are running this. It has changed its mind about solidarity and looks away from the Baltic countries in the event of a crisis or a war.
i-10913770f7859f98-171	Mr President, I would like to It is, as has been shown, a somewhat motley debate today on the part of the Committee on Defence. This is because the report is indeed a smorgasbord in the true sense of the word. I cannot help commenting on some of what has been said. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, it is my absolute conviction that peace and freedom in the world will benefit from the existence of nuclear weapons in London, Washington and Paris as long as political leaders such as Kim Jong Un, Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin have such weapons at their disposal. Mr President, I would like to Of course, Sweden may be assisted by NATO in an armed attack. However, since Sweden is a non-member of the organisation and is therefore not covered by Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, this assistance will only be provided if it is in the interest of NATO itself. Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 3, 7 and 11. In addition, I request the approval of motion 2017/ 18:3037 of the undersigned and others. Right now, a procurement process is under way for a medium-range American anti-aircraft system, Patriot. It's probably very good in many ways. However, Mr President, the acquisition of a handful of firing units does not automatically lead to a coherent, optimal and comprehensive defence against ballistic missiles and cruise missiles. A few years ago, an investigation, Air Defence Investigation 2040, was working precisely on air defence issues in the long term. The investigation concluded that Sweden is too small to be able to build such a defence against ballistic missiles and cruise missiles on its own. The investigation therefore suggested that we build the defense together with others. It was even so explicit that it was said: it is really only the NATO countries with which we can interact on this issue. In the investigation were three Social Democrats. It was Eva Sonidsson, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson and Peter Jeppsson. None of these Members disagreed with the need for cooperation with NATO on our air defence. Nor did the Left Party disagree. On the other hand, Mr Björlund, at the time, wrote a special opinion stating that we can cooperate with individual NATO countries but not with NATO as an organisation. The investigation has not been referred, and now the question is: What basis does the government actually have when we are faced with this very large and extensive acquisition? It is about tens of billions as a minimum, Mr President. I realise that the Liberals today may not receive support for their request for the Riksdag to make the Government aware of how the Swedish components will form part of a coherent defence against ballistic missiles and cruise missiles together with other countries. However, for the sake of history, Mr President, I would like to say that it would have been a very wise idea to do so. Hans Wallmark concluded that cooperation with Finland does not automatically apply in the event of an armed conflict. That's exactly right. It is not only with Finland that we have bilateral cooperation; we also have it with a wide range of other countries. But the common denominator for all these agreements, Mr President, is that they are supposed to end in the event of war. It can thus be said that they are fig leaves for the government that continues to keep Sweden out of the most important security cooperation between democratic states. Hans Wallmark was also present at Politihjemmeværnet in Denmark and described in a graphic way how they can support the ordinary police even in times of peace in times of crisis. Against this background, I see that the Moderates in Sweden, when the Defence Committee has now proposed in broad agreement a special police reinforcement resource, as a result also believes that it can be used in crises in peace. We've discussed the theory of probability in the Defense Committee. In fact, this time the theory of probability was completely outcast. I believe that we, like Roger Richtoff, are based on the actual possibilities and then do not rate the probability of them. I think that is very wise of us. Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that.
i-10913770f7859f98-183	Mr President, I would like to We are going to discuss defence policy today. A number of motions have been the basis of the report and they come from general exercise last autumn. There are 18 motions that contain 36 different suggestions. Just like Allan Widman said, it's a sandwich table of all sorts. Most of us here are in the Committee on Defence, and we have often debated these very issues. I would like to call for all reservations to be rejected, of course, and for the proposal in the report to be approved. I would like to highlight the differences between sitting on the Committee on Defence and sitting on the Committee on Defence. The preparation is an organ that came into existence in the late 90s. It's worked very well most times. I've been privileged to sit there for the second time now. It is if not a temporary, at least not a long-term body. But we work long-term, and we do it for a couple of years before we make our proposal. The proposals we are making are negotiated at a different level from those of ordinary groups that come together and then submit a report to the government. We work very long-term and relate to defence and security policy – as we do now. In January 2017, the Minister for Defence and the Government decided that we should set up a new defence committee. We worked throughout the year, and in December we left our report Resistance. It dealt with total defence and civil defence, and our final report, which many of these parts we are talking about now will be about, will be submitted by May 2019 at the latest. To help us, we have a number of investigations. Someone, concerning cooperation, has been mentioned here as well. But we have also looked at all our laws to see if they are adapted to today, and we have a great expectation now of getting an investigation into materials and logistics. We also discuss the objectives of the Defence Committee. We are very much in agreement with the objectives that we have set for increasing operational capacity and ensuring overall capability. There are a lot of meetings behind this, as well as many trips where we try to get along. I have to tell you that we're getting along to a great extent. In the last draft, we had a strong majority, and now we have all the parties left in the draft. We do not know whether the next report will leave reservations or disagreements, but I hope that it will be as robust and broad as it can be. We suggest that the goal in the total defense should be to defend Sweden individually and together with others both inside and outside the country against armed attacks. We want to protect our security, freedom, independence and freedom of action. I think everyone can do these things. What was a little new in the latest report was that the defense should plan and work to enable us to withstand serious disturbances in society's functions for three months. Part of that period of three months should also be during war. Of course, we highlight many things in the report we have submitted. I have met many people who have read it, and I feel that it is easy to read even though it is not very thin. It feels like a lot of people have found homes in it. We are discussing in the report responsibility and management in relation to population protection. The basis for this is how to strengthen civil protection. We are talking about the police and war placements, because one must also know where to serve in the event of the worst happening. We also talk a lot about health care and how to deal with a major injury outcome. Yesterday, some of us were at a seminar discussing cybersecurity. I feel that one of the hottest topics right now is how to act when trespassing on our computers. Of course, we have also discussed down-to-earth things such as food and water. How can we make a living when it comes to energy and fuel? Cooperation is also mentioned in FU3. We want increased cooperation, especially with those close to us – of course with the Nordic countries. We already have a collaboration with Nordefco, which started in 2009. Nordefco stands for Nordic Defence Cooperation. There is a political direction but also a development of talent. We have exercises and training there, and we are also discussing staff issues. This is a very positive development. Of course, Finland is closest to us. It's a lot because we remind each other of each other. We have cooperation beyond peace-time conditions right now. Many of the issues that have been raised today will thus be addressed in the upcoming reports of the Defence Committee. I think it is important that we stick to an overall solution and not pick up individual things and decide on them here and now, but the whole is extremely important. I hope for many good discussions in the future where we can also be pragmatic and listen to each other. It's not always easy, but we train well in the Defense Committee. I am convinced that there will be some report a little later, and I hope that it will contain a very broad agreement on our defence.
i-10913770f7859f98-200	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam was mainly involved in the Swedish Defence Committee and its work, especially with the latest interim report. There is reason for us to discuss this repeatedly and not least the final report that will also be delivered. Mr President, I would like to V issa of the things that the Defence Committee presented in its interim report that was presented on 20 December, the government has already chosen to start to effect. I think that is basically good, but it makes it part and part. It is a little unclear why you have taken some things and not other things. They say, for example, that they want to restore psychological defence, which is an issue that we Moderates have been pushing all along, but then there are other things, for example, that we point out the Ministry of Defence as a total defence ministry, which they choose to abstain from. It is incomprehensible why you choose something from the Defense Committee but not other, but we can leave that behind. I was going to discuss this report, unlike Åsa Lindestam. She began by saying that she proposed rejecting all motions. Then I would just like to ask what she fundamentally opposes the moderate motion in which we say that an investigation could be set up to look at how the police and the Armed Forces can deepen their cooperation. The origin of this is that a few weeks ago there was a certain amount of turmoil, Mr President. One could listen to a Minister of Justice who said one thing and a Prime Minister who said something different, and then the Minister of Justice changed his mind about how the armed forces and police can cooperate and cooperate. Therefore, my simple question is: Why does Åsa Lindestam reject a motion that is about investigating how the cooperation between the armed forces and the police can be deepened?
i-10913770f7859f98-207	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to start with why we're effecting certain things. I know that Mr Wallmark has also received answers in the past, because the Minister for Defence received the same question up in Sälen. I agree with the description of how the government has dealt with this. Many of the things that the Defense Committee suggested were already underway and there were things that were ready and you could get started right away. Then the government did. It's very rare for this to happen. Previous reports have not been dealt with in this way, but then they have been presented and then further investigated in the government. Then, after a long time, there have been proposals on which we have been able to decide. This government received the report on 20 December, I think it was, and already after three weeks decisions had been made on some things and had them in place. I think it's important. It shows how quickly you can deal with things when you are in government and are decision-making. That's why these parts got started. Other things may have to lie down a little. You have to have time to read the report in its entirety. I am sure that the government will come back on many of these issues. With regard to an investigation into the police and military issue, I would like to say that we have a whole bunch of investigations right now that we need to deal with in the first place. I already know that the police and the military work well together. We have heard that from the representatives of the Defense Committee. I believe that we are currently satisfied with the investigations we are receiving. Then we'll see if we'll get back to it when we dig deeper. But so far I can't see that there's a need for it.
i-10913770f7859f98-214	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to go into why you choose such things on the basis of the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report but refrain from other things. I'm just saying that's happening. And I assume that after the September elections, an alliance government may also show an interest in the forgotten points of the Interim Report of the Defence Committee. Mr President, I would like to Let me return to what Åsa Lindestam did at the outset in her speech, namely rejecting all motions. It is clear that there is now a debate, in which the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice also participate, on how the police and the armed forces can cooperate and cooperate. It would then be ideal to examine the legal basis for such cooperation. Now we go out in the public debate and say that it would be a good thing. Therefore, I would like to ask Åsa Lindestam once again about the factual basis for this. Mr President, I would like to To be honest, the factual basis cannot be that there are a lot of different investigations. It is done all the time, and it will continue in that way. If both the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister are opening up to deepen the collaboration between the armed forces and the police – a fundamentally good idea – it is good to have examined the legal and structural basis for this. So my question to Åsa Lindestam is: Why did you reject this proposal about eight minutes ago?
i-10913770f7859f98-219	Mr President, I would like to It sounds a little strange to call it forgotten points in the Defense Committee's report. It certainly is not. It is an interim report in a report that we will present in May 2019. It will therefore be dealt with in full when the time comes. If I am not mistaken, the previous government tried to do exactly that way, and so much was missing that we had to set up a defence group to move forward. But we did not call it forgotten points, but we took it very seriously and helped as much as we could, as we continue to do. It's definitely not forgotten. I do not think that the legal basis for cooperation between the police and the military needs to be investigated at present. I know what you can and can't do, and I'm happy with it so far. Perhaps there are further points where Hans Wallmark does not know where it should go. But I don't know them. But perhaps we can come up with a little more concrete things on which to work together. I know that if the police need to call off helicopters, for example, the Swedish Armed Forces will set up and deliver the helicopters that they are able to deliver. That's good. That's one way to do it. When we meet the heads of the respective authorities, they also say that they cooperate very well on a weekly basis. I think it's enough to talk to each other. And if they see that something is missing that they should have the authority to do, I am sure they would point it out to us. I cannot remember Hans Wallmark, in the discussion we had with the managers, raising some specific issue where he would like to see further cooperation and which he wanted to investigate.
i-10913770f7859f98-224	Mr President, I would like to Protecting the security of citizens and the independence of the country is the first task of the state. The Swedish Armed Forces are the guarantor to ensure this if a situation arises where diplomacy and other security policy tools fail to resolve a conflict peacefully. Since changes in total defence take a long time, a great responsibility falls on us politicians to follow the security policy developments in our neighbourhood and adapt our defence to what we see and to work long-term with defence and security policy. Swedish politics has tried to create structures to promote these very long-term brush strokes rather than short-term decision-making in defence policy, especially through the Defence Committee and the Defence Group. The defence committee's interim report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021 – 2025 gathered broad support for its focus on a rebuilt civil defence. Within the defence group, the government, together with responsible bourgeois parties, has agreed on several budget contributions to the defence, partly to ensure that we implement the 2015 defence decision, and partly to secure the defence capabilities even during the next defence decision-making period. The 2015 defence decision and its complementary settlements have led to a trend break in Swedish defence policy. The resources for Swedish defence have increased for the first time in many years. The new resources have gone towards human resources, the proliferation of air forces, equipment investments, the deployment of combat groups on Gotland, the implementation of Aurora, the start of the purchase of anti-aircraft and more. This should include the introduction of the new military service, which ensures the supply of defence personnel and, at the same time, strengthens the incentives for people to volunteer for defence. The tools for increased voluntary activity have, of course, been important for the Green Party. As I said, it takes a long time to develop defence capabilities, and we are far from clear. Ingemar Wahlberg's upcoming investigation into the needs of the defence equipment, the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base and the final report of the Defence Committee later will certainly all point to defence policy challenges that need to be addressed, regardless of the government. But the direction of this government is clear. We have undertaken to strengthen the capabilities of the defence, and it is a work that we will continue to do. Mr President, I would like to Now we have talked a lot about classical defence policy and how we dimension the defence in order to meet an attacker. However, I would also like to point out that improved capabilities of total defence can benefit society in situations other than armed conflict. After all, a war in our neighbourhood seems unlikely today. However, trucks needed in defence logistics can also be used in, for example, a blizzard, a more resilient electricity supply is valuable in many types of crises and the value of the Home Guard became evident during the fire in Västmanland in 2014. The list can be made long. We do well not to forget the other security challenges and just talk about the war, partly because there are plenty of synergies between crisis preparedness and defence, partly because the threat picture we face is complex. The government has also presented its view in the national security strategy on the threats we face. In addition to military threats, information and cyber security, health threats, terrorism, organised crime, threats to infrastructure and energy supply and climate change and their effects are also mentioned. As an environmental party, I would particularly like to highlight the latter and agree with Ambassador Bringéus's assessment that climate threats represent the greatest security threat to the world in the long term. When you listen to defence debates, you can sometimes get the impression that security is being built only with the help of our armed forces. However, it is far from the truth. Diplomacy, foreign policy, good relations with our neighbours and support for democratic forces and institutions around the world are always the first line of defence that keeps Sweden safe. However, these subjects are not dealt with by the Committee on Defence. I am therefore content to note the importance of these and to refer the interested listener to listen afterwards to yesterday's foreign policy debate in this House, where these issues, among other things, were dealt with. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-10913770f7859f98-234	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to ask for a line. But at the end of his speech, Anders Schröder made me jump when he said that an armed attack on Sweden is still unlikely. It prompts me to ask you a question. The defence committee has formulated itself so that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Is the Green Party behind this most central sentence in the preparation report or is it not?
i-10913770f7859f98-235	Mr President, I would like to I said an armed attack seems unlikely today. I do not see how it would be in contrast to the fact that an armed attack cannot be ruled out. The whole point of the Defense Committee's portal sentence was that it is not relevant for the Defence Committee to try to do that kind of probability assessment. However, I note that from my horizon I do not see it as likely, and therefore I do not see them resisting each other.
i-10913770f7859f98-237	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of the Defence Committee's formulation was precisely to once and for all emulate the so-called theory of probability. Now Anders Schröder says that he sees it as not being in contradiction with each other, and I can agree with that on a semantic basis. Yet, when in a second breath he makes the assessment that an armed attack is still unlikely to undermine the work of the entire preparation during the weeks it took to agree on this formulation. It is very serious that a representative of the government is doing this in this debate, Mr President. This means that we must put major questions on the continuation and implementation of the other proposals put forward by the preparation.
i-10913770f7859f98-239	Mr President, I would like to I note that Allan Widman seems to agree that my description is factually correct. It's just that he makes a different interpretation of how to understand the portal sentence. This is not the first time that a broad parliamentary agreement has been interpreted in part differently by different parties. I note that they do not resist each other. That is the de facto situation. It is therefore strange to say that I would not support the agreement that has been reached within the Committee on Defence.
i-10913770f7859f98-241	Mr President, I would like to I had two questions. One has already been raised by Allan Widman. That's a good question. I fully share the view of the author of the question. The answer is not surprising, that it is actually a non-answer. I simply believe that Anders Schröder does not understand the difference between speculating in probability of one and excluding something. Well, then Anders Schröder says that the defence should be adapted to the security policy situation, and that sounds good. If we look 10– 15 years ahead, it will look completely different. Will Anders Schröder – as he has done before – help to destroy what we are building now and break the systems? He says we should adapt our defenses to the security situation. Does that mean you're going to destroy it again, which you were good at last time?
i-10913770f7859f98-243	Mr President, I would like to I skip speculation about what I understand and don't understand. Roger Richtoff's question is so speculative in itself and hypothetical that it is difficult to answer. The answer, of course, is that we must always observe the outside world first and then make an assessment of how our defence should be designed. It would be very strange for me to say: No, I will not take into account an improved or deteriorating security policy situation when choosing how future defence should be designed.
i-10913770f7859f98-246	Mr President, I would like to The analytical ability that you have performed has been bad, and I have said that before. What separates us is that we want a strong defense over time. Then we can discuss how strong it should be. If the security policy situation gets calmer, it's good, great. Everyone would be delighted about this. But we're gonna keep a high guard of change. It then requires a strong defence over time. Apparently, we're parting here. Then it is clear that you observe the world situation and can act in different ways. You can act politically as a non-aligned nation. That is the only thing that we have in common with the current government at all, that we should be outside NATO. As far as alignment with the defence is concerned, I am a little concerned. The last time you did a non-analysis, you completely destroyed the defense. You broke the systems and said there was no need for a defense. We were alone in saying: Maintain a strong defense over time! Now all parties are talking about it and saying that we need to raise the defence in view of the security situation. Sure, but how long does it take to build up what you've destroyed? You must take responsibility for that and understand that you cannot break everything if things get a little calmer in the outside world. The analysis you have carried out so far has been bad.
i-10913770f7859f98-250	Mr President, I would like to Roger Richtoff and his party think they've always been right because they've called the wolf 99 times. Maybe the hundredth time it'll come. That's not how an analysis works, Roger Richtoff. We are making an assessment after the world situation, and we will continue to do so.
i-8qQ3a6c4UscVNLpFnN9DKP	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for reservation 13. Safety in our neighbourhood has deteriorated. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. In order to make an armed attack too costly for a planned attacker, we need a defence that has a threshold effect. A planned attacker can be expected to use symmetrical warfare at the same time as asymmetric warfare. A total defense must therefore be an advanced system of systems that can, from the first second, but also persevere, withstand the pressures of an advanced attacker. Three multipliers build up defence capabilities: dressings, materiel and exercises. Available equipment, in turn, disintegrates into four multipliers: the level of the defence grant, the choice of the system type, the price picture and the logistics. If Sweden does not raise the defence grant, we will have less available usable equipment in the near future. The previous reduction in defence appropriations has not yet been balanced. Available equipment is still declining. The defence budget should gradually be increased to 21⁄2% of GDP by the next ten years. Defense logistics should be war-adapted. Only the warable defense can preserve peace and freedom. When we are faced with a change or efficiency we should ask ourselves: Does this work in war? Question: Does this work in peace? shall not be dimensional or oriented. Ingemar Wahlberg's investigation Logistics for higher defence preparedness is a major step in the right direction. It should be implemented in its entirety. We support in our reservation 13 the Social Democratic motion on Swedish radar technology written by Johan Büser and Anna Johansson. It is absolutely right to point out radar technology as an essential national security interest. We have constantly stressed that the Swedish defence industry is a security policy asset. Our defence industry is based on previous decades of state aid and large orders. Our skilled engineers and the availability of Swedish private capital were also prerequisites for today's fantastic defence industry. After the fall of the wall, when the Swedish defence took its famous strategic timeout, the defence industry had to focus entirely on exports. It's all right. Today, the Swedish defence industry invests considerably more than Chalmers and KTH together in research. Of course, there are very positive spillovers from such a production environment. You can make a list of civilian companies that are spin-off from the defence industry. But now the European Commission has put forward a proposal to establish the programme for the development of the defence industry with the European Defence Fund. Suddenly, the free market is no longer the goal. Eda notes that in the United States 30 defence equipment systems are produced from 11 production units, while in Europe 178 defence equipment systems are produced from 36 production units. This would prove that the defence industry in Europe is too fragmented. The problem with the comparison is that it is one-dimensional. Yes, the United States only manufactures a tank model, Abram, but it is expensive compared to the German Leopard that we use. The cost of Leopard 2 is SEK 57 million each, while that of Abram is SEK 90 million each. Yes, the U.S. only produces five models of combat aircraft, but their best export model, F-35, is hugely expensive in purchasing and operating. The U.S. pumps huge amounts of money into its defence industry knowing that the money goes into the American economy and also creates a lot of spillovers. Sweden should do the same, i.e. increase orders for good domestic defence equipment, such as Gripen, combat vehicles 90, submarine A26 and others. It was fortunate for Sweden that in 1982 the Riksdag voted 176 against 167 for the Government of Fälldin's proposal for a new Swedish fighter aircraft. If Sweden had bought U.S. F-16 or F-18, we would have stood at a clean cost. Instead, we developed JAS 39 Gripen, which has become a profit for the national economy. Gunnar Eliasson, Professor Emeritus at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, has estimated that the taxpayer's 132 billion to Gripen had until 2007 given back 350 billion in increased growth in Sweden. International cooperation in materials is a key to the success of the defence industry. Swedish defence industry is competent in this field. Cooperation with Germany, the United States, England, Switzerland, Brazil and India has a special status. It should be noted that four, almost five, of these countries are not members of the European Union. Bringing together successful and not successful defence industries and putting the EU as a group management is a disaster. The EU bureaucrats do not have the knowledge or the genius to decide over the materiel cooperation. Over to the anti-aircraft! The Swedish Government is about to make a huge mistake in the procurement of a new medium-range anti-aircraft. Ever since headquarters made the calculation that air defence needs at least 60 – 80 new Gripen Erik, the question of the purchase of modern medium-range anti-aircraft has been a running point. Early in the work of the Air Defence Committee, the Swedish Armed Forces expressed their opinion: They wanted Aster 30 as a medium-range anti-aircraft robot combined with short-range Iris-T-T SLS. It was a development that we supported. Unfortunately, the government has now moved on with a tender request for only the American 80s system Patriot. Instead, the procurement should be adapted to include systems that are better suited for Sweden. The offer request should be addressed to the European company MBDA and include Aster 30-fire units, separate data links and Aster 30-robots, while the radar is purchased in Sweden: Giraffe 4A and later so-called early warning radar. Sweden could obtain a flexible and cost-effective air defence system for future needs and meet an initial capability already in 2020. For vessel placement, CAMM robots can be purchased from the manufacturer of the Aster system. These can be pushed out of the Visby corvettes. The price of Aster 30 is lower than that of Patriot. Aster 30 is based on modern developmental technology, while Patriot is 80's technology at the end of the road. The staffing for grouping with Aster 30 is about a quarter compared to Patriot. The regrouping of Aster 30 can be carried out faster than for Patriot. Saab's sensors could, through the above, also become part of Aster 30's standard solution and give Sweden a share in further export income if export customers so wish.
i-10913770f7859f98-267	Madam, take the lman! Yesterday it was read in Dagens i ndustri that threats and violence against pupils and teachers in school have increased dramatically in recent times. Autumn's me-too call has also shed light on the type of sexual harassment and abuse that are everyday for too many students. Around the country, schools are forced to install camera surveillance, have locked doors with access cards and hire security guards. Since 2014, the number of notifications to the Swedish Work Environment Authority about violence and threats at school has almost doubled from 517 to 767. The Moderates have long demanded efforts at school to ensure security, study and an environment free from violence and threats – an environment where children must also stay according to law. Four years have passed without the government having acted. When and how will the Prime Minister and the Government ensure that the school is kept free of violence?
i-10913770f7859f98-270	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent matter. Everyone in school – children and young people as well as teachers – should have the best environment and opportunities. Students should have the best opportunities to learn as much as possible, and it should be free from threats and violence. Four years, says Tobias Billström. For eight years we had a bourgeois government that lowered taxes 13 times more than they invested in school. One thing is for sure: none of the challenges we see in school are relieved with reduced income for the state. They are helped with more resources for school, and this also requires more income. That is why we have now begun a great deal of work to provide resources to the school, not least in order for teachers to get better development. We're going to raise the status of the teachers. We're going to train more teachers. We have already employed 20 000 more adults in school to date. We're betting on student health. It is of great importance how the student health system works, and it needs to be upgraded. A number of measures are needed, but above all they require sufficient resources. Work is in progress and must continue in order for all students to have the best opportunities to learn as much as possible in school.
i-10913770f7859f98-273	Madam President, I would like Having listened to the Prime Minister, I can see that concrete proposals are needed to overcome the problems. Among other things, we want to tighten up legislation, increase teachers' powers to intervene in order situations at school, introduce order reviews at school and ensure that all crimes are reported to the police and that it becomes easier to relocate students. We in the Alliance also want to take a strong stand against juvenile delinquency, abolish the penalty rate for young people, set up special youth courts and introduce a 24-hour guarantee, whereby the social services will contact the child's guardian within 24 hours after he or she is arrested for crime. Since the Prime Minister now lacks concrete answers to the question of how to secure the school for students and teachers and crime is being curbed – this was the original question – I wonder: Are there any of our proposals that he can support?
i-10913770f7859f98-276	Madam President, I would like As far as the penalty for young people is concerned, you are behind us. We've already gone out with it going away. If you are 18 years of age, you should be able to stand for your actions fully. We've already announced that. There is no doubt that we share the same view. It is good that you support the government on this point. Of course there should be order in school. Among other things, this is why more adults are needed. Teachers and school leaders may need more powers. I'm no stranger to looking into it at all. But that's just one part of it. The second part forgets the Moderates, because then it suddenly starts to cost money, and then you can't lower taxes. That part is about the need for more resources in school. We will have more adults in school and also better opportunities for teachers. Then the students also have better opportunities to choose a different path than the one leading to crime.
i-10913770f7859f98-280	Madam President, I would like At Parliament's Question Time relatively recently, my colleague Carina Ståhl Herrstedt explained how the Minister of Finance had said that the costs of mass immigration would be financed by savings on personal assistance to disabled people and how the government in 2016 changed the regulation letter to the Social Insurance Agency and commissioned the Social Insurance Agency to break the development of the number of hours in assistance compensation. In the light of the suffering that these austeritys have caused for many disabled people, including children, and that the government now seems to want to blame the whole development on the courts – it wants to give the impression that it is behind the disabled, and it is now talking about legislative changes to improve their situation – my colleague Carina Ståhl Herrstedt wanted to ask the Minister for Finance if she was prepared to admit that the government made a mistake in choosing to prioritise mass immigration over the needs of the disabled. The answer from the Minister for Finance was then that my colleague was completely wrong in his statement of reality and that there were no quotes whatsoever where the Minister of Finance had said that she prioritised mass immigration over assistance payments. This was a direct lie on the part of the Minister for Finance. At a press conference on 22 October 2015, which was featured in TV4's Cold Facts, the Minister of Finance said in response to a direct question about how the government would cope with the running costs of mass immigration: It was the Minister for Finance's answer to how to solve the running costs of immigration. In view of this, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the Prime Minister's confidence in the Minister of Finance is affected by the fact that the Minister of Finance here in Parliament before the Swedish people, the television viewers and the elected representatives of the Swedish people have made directly untrue statements about what she has said and not and about the government's priorities.
i-10913770f7859f98-284	Madam President, I would like I have full confidence in Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. We have an excellent Minister of Finance who has ensured that this country's finances have now been substantially strengthened, so now we have an enormous opportunity to do what we want in the area of welfare as well. We didn't have that before. Then we had a serious budget deficit. Now we have a budget surplus. Our government has changed the migration policy introduced by the previous government. These are the parties that the Swedish Democrats now want back to power. We have changed it because we have to get fewer people to come to Sweden and more people to go to other countries, so that we have an equal share of responsibility in Europe. As far as assistance compensation is concerned, Mattias Karlsson would therefore like to state that there have been no court rulings in these cases, but that has been the case. When we see the consequences of those decisions, we have said that we must have a procedure that is the same as it was before the decisions, so that, for example, waiting time is included and there are no two-year trials. These are the changes that have been made. In addition, there is now an investigation that looks at the LSS to see what new legislation should look like, so that we ensure that the people who need support get it and that we have good conditions in general. That's what the government does. We intend to continue to do so. Here it is important to ensure that the state finances are in order and thus get advice to invest in welfare, including LSS and assistance.
i-10913770f7859f98-288	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is true that court decisions have been recorded. But other things that have also been recorded are the signals from the government and the change made by the government in 2016 in the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan. The organisations representing the disabled agree that it had a very negative impact. This is part of the explanation for the deterioration of the situation of the disabled. It is also true that the Minister of Finance said that the costs of mass immigration would be met by making savings in assistance payments to the disabled. Since the Minister of Finance did not answer these questions, but instead came up with a direct lie – I think that is spectacular, and I think it should affect the Prime Minister's confidence in her – perhaps the Prime Minister can answer. Is the government prepared to apologise for giving priority to mass immigration over the needs of disabled children?
i-10913770f7859f98-291	Madam President, I would like This is going to be pretty funny. First, Mattias Karlsson stands here and accuses the Minister of Finance of having lied. Then he says that it was not a matter of court decisions, but it was the government that had done so. In post number two he says: Yes, but court decisions have probably recorded here. It is quite typical of a populist party to act in this way and to use the word mass immigration all the time. And mass immigration is being pitted against people who need support. We have never ever questioned these rights or changed any conditions regarding the rights of the individual to receive this support. There is no change in the LSS that limits individuals' right to this support. There is no such rule of law. In that case, it would also have been put through in this Parliament, but it has not been done. On the other hand, we see that in this activity there is a crime that we must stop.
i-10913770f7859f98-294	Madam President, I would like Security is about people knowing that care exists when they need it. It is about getting the help we need when we are sick and that the care is available when our children or when our parents need it. It should be obvious to see a doctor at the health centre and get their surgery on time. People, wherever they live in the country, should be able to rely on welfare. But care queues are growing in Stefan Lövven's Sweden. Fewer have a fixed doctor's contact, and how long it takes to get help depends on where in the country you live. In alliance-led Halland, nine out of ten patients are allowed to meet a specialist within the healthcare guarantee limit. In Social Democratic Norrbotten, only six out of ten patients receive treatment on time. In opposition Stefan Löfven ran a campaign that described a Sweden where something was falling apart. During his time as Prime Minister, this has become a reality in health care. Now Sweden is split by growing care queues. People get caught. If something had broken in Sweden when the care queues were shortened during the alliance period, I wonder: What does Stefan Löfven call a Sweden where the care queues are growing?
i-10913770f7859f98-297	Madam President, I would like Yes, the care queues are a problem. We need to increase the availability of healthcare – there is no doubt about that. It was just that the queue billion, which the previous government introduced, did not seem the last year. Even the Moderates have admitted that. The Medical Association was against it. The National Board of Health sawed it. The national audit sawed it. This depends on something. If you put a straight chord, I know what's going on. If you want to have as many as possible to get as much money as possible, take the easy cases. You'll get a lot of people in there. The more complex and complex cases of illness are placed at the back of the queue. That's how it works. So it was not care as needed with the queue billions, but something else. What the queues in our health care are now largely about is a shortage of staff. That is why we need to train more staff. We need more midwives, specialist nurses, specialist doctors and others. And of course we have to hire them. Now we have completely employed 100 000 people in Swedish welfare. Some of them are in health care. It is only in this way that we can cut queues and make sure that people, for example, come to an operation. It won't help with a cue billion if there's no doctor. It won't help if there's a million-dollar queue and a doctor if there's no nurses. Then surgery will be cancelled. I note that Annie Lööf chooses Halland and Norrbotten. She doesn't talk much about Stockholm, and she can have her checkered and striped reasons for it. But we have to make sure that short queues – there is no doubt about that. We must then have more resources and, above all, more staff. That is where we intend to continue to bet.
i-10913770f7859f98-300	Madam President, I would like Yes, I do that because Sweden is bigger than the big city and because we see big problems in social democratically controlled Jämtland Härjedalen and in social democratically controlled Norrbotten in terms of when people receive care. This can be compared with, for example, alliance-led Jönköping or Halland. Queues began to grow in 2014. Now begins the time that the Prime Minister has to be Prime Minister, because this autumn we will have a new leadership in Sweden. It is remarkable that the Social Democrats and the Prime Minister use the entire answer to describe how wrong it was with the queue billions, despite the fact that the queues have increased over the last three years. We need to get a basic primary care reform. We need to do a national nursing lift. We need to ensure that an availability billion is introduced in order to shorten the queues. We need to have tough goals for more people, including those living in Norrbotten and Jämtland, to receive care on time. Stefan Löfven! How are we going to shorten the care queues? Why haven't you done enough in the three and a half years you've had the chance?
i-10913770f7859f98-304	Madam President, I would like I can keep telling you. We have increased the overall contributions to the county councils and regions, which they can use as they please. That's a lot more money than you ever put in there. Yes, that's exactly what it is. We have made a special effort for the patients and to shorten the queues, so that it goes faster. We are introducing a new health guarantee just to make it faster. We are making a special effort when it comes to cancer, because there we also have problems with the fact that too many people have to wait too long. There too, the differences in the country are far too great. We are now developing the standardised medical processes that you started. We are making a special investment in maternity care and a major investment in children's and young people's psychiatry, because there needs to be additional resources. All this is possible because we have more tax revenue and more space. There is no lowering of taxes. The bourgeois now want to reduce taxes by SEK 100 billion. It's not working.
i-10913770f7859f98-308	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister Löfven! For a few weeks now, the Turkish military has been making an unprovoked and brutal attack on Afrin province in Syria. Among other things, there are systematic aerial bombings of civilian targets. Afrin province has so far been quite slightly affected by the terrible war in Syria. But now it's coming to them. It is a province that has received hundreds of thousands of people on the run. It is part of Syria where women's rights actually exist and where women participate in the building-up of society. The Federation of Northern Syria has tried to conduct elections. They are trying to create a federation with space for different groups in Syria. Here Christians, Muslims, Arabs and Kurds live together. I would say that this is perhaps the most promising development we have seen in Syria for a long time. It was the inhabitants of northern Syria, of the Federation, especially the Kurds, who defeated IS. They were the ones who freed Raqqa. They're the ones who pushed IS back into Kobane. Now they are attacked by Turkey. Now those who defeated IS are being attacked by the Turkish military. And when these brave people at this difficult moment try to defend themselves against Turkish military forces and against NATO Turkey, the outside world leaves them alone. Then you turn your back on them. Then you look away. Stefan Löfven! It is time for the Social Democrats and the government to take a stand. It is time to condemn Turkey's assault on Afrin.
i-10913770f7859f98-312	Madam President, I would like Yes, the situation in Syria is sad – there is no doubt about it. The situation there is complex with all these parties involved: Kurds, the Syrian government, the Syrian opposition, Iran, the United States and Russia. Of course that is a melting pot and an extremely complex conflict. All forces must now be focused on taking down the level of conflict. Of course, we need humanitarian aid, and that is why Sweden is now also acting very hard in the Security Council to bring about a ceasefire at all. We need to get a longer one so that we can get humanitarian aid in and help the people who need it. In addition, we shall support, above all, the UN-led peace process. There are several peace processes, but we believe that the UN-led is the important one. Now all the focus must be on bringing down the level of conflict. There are probably as many views on the various sub-conflicts, such as between the Kurds and Turkey, as there are conflicts. In international law awareness, there are different perceptions of what is right and what is wrong in this. But the important thing now, and we have been pointing this out for a long time, is to have a cease-fire, regardless of which party it is – a cease-fire for a long time so that humanitarian aid comes in and people, especially children, do not suffer as they do now.
i-10913770f7859f98-315	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to say that the Prime Minister's answer is a great disappointment. Here a NATO country is attacking civilian cases without any basis in international law. You attack a part of another country. People defend themselves desperately. Then the outside world turns its back on these people. If Sweden does not say in the EU and in the UN that this must be condemned and the Turkish troops removed, then silence will be a consent. Sweden should stand up for international law. Sweden should stand up for the brave people who actually defeated IS – don't look away and be quiet! I wonder why. Is it because Turkey decides refugee policy and is our border guard today? Is it because Turkey is a NATO country that we not only allow them to persecute their own left and their own Kurds, but also to look away when they attack Afrin Province in Syria? Sweden should know better!
i-10913770f7859f98-318	Madam President, I would like I said we should now make an effort to bring down the conflicts between all the parties involved. It also, of course, calls on Turkey, as well as the Syrian Government, the opposition, Russia, the United States and Iran. The statement is exactly the same: now we need to get the conflict down and get humanitarian aid in. There must be a truce and calm as far as it ever goes. That message applies to everyone. This does not apply to everyone except Turkey, but also to Turkey.
i-10913770f7859f98-320	Madam President, I would like 17 1⁄2 percent – such a large proportion of students in grade 9 failed when summer holidays began last year. This is the highest figure ever measured in Sweden. It wasn't that easy to fix the school in 100 days. The figure of 17 1⁄2 percent means that tens of thousands of students leave the ninth grade without having the most basic knowledge to get into high school or get by in adulthood. One very important reason is what Tobias Billström mentioned earlier: that there are major shortcomings when it comes to studies in the Swedish school. The school system in Sweden is one of those where it is absolutely messier and restless in the classrooms. I know you on the red-green side do not want to talk about it, because you just want to talk about tax cuts or tax increases. However, these are central questions: What is the authority of all those who work in school? What are the rules? What happens when things get messy? It's just as central, but you're never interested in talking about it. Tobias Billström brought up situations when schools are really getting out of hand, but what is disturbing the breadth of our classrooms right now is mobile phones. In the past, it rang and disturbed, but now everyone can sit and surf instead of listening to the teacher. These are problems which, due to technological developments, exist throughout the Western world. The phone is amazing, but if the students are surfing, it doesn't belong in the classrooms. We think that Sweden should do as France, namely sign in to the school law that the classrooms should be mobile free when there is not an important educational purpose. But the government says no to this.
i-10913770f7859f98-327	Madam President, I would like That is a misworded question. I don't think it's more important to surf the phone than to listen to the teacher. It's just the opposite. There are already opportunities for schools to introduce exactly this. In some schools, you have to turn in your phone, and then you get it back at the end of the day. I think that's a good order. If there is any educational reason why you should use your mobile phone in teaching, you must do so. I believe that it is the schools that should decide this, and that possibility already exists. There should be order in the classroom as well. It's supposed to be study time. That's why we need more teachers. There's no doubt about it. We also need more assistants to the teachers so that the teachers can do the job they are trained for. For example, assistants can help with administrative issues. We need more support for student health. We know that many children simply do not feel well and have problems. Of course, such children get messy even at school. Therefore, more such resources are needed to support them. It's like law and order out in the community. It is clear that it is important to keep order in the classroom as well, but it is also important to see what creates the problems that we see in the classrooms. If too many children feel bad, student health needs to have more resources. It can't be ignored. We need more adults in school and more teachers but also support for school leaders and so on. There is no quick fix or simple solution, but it is more complex than that. It takes, once again, resources for school. We've introduced so much more resources to the school than you ever were near. Now this must continue. Now we should not change direction on Swedish politics and go back to tax cuts and less resources to school. Now we are going to continue with this, because when we invest together in our society, not least in our school, well, then we have the opportunity to do something about the problems.
i-10913770f7859f98-335	Madam President, I would like There is no problem that Stefan Löfven does not want to solve with raising taxes. Here's the thing: There are more employees today, but because we have many more students as a result of refugee immigration, the teacher density today is the same as it was during the time of the alliance government. That's the truth. The teacher density is the same. It is not that everyone who surfs has major social problems. On the contrary, it is quite common for students to sit and surf in school, but it is not about needing a school counselor. There are those who need it, so I'm in on these reinforcements. But the problem is much wider than these very vulnerable students. The problem is that when there are lots of disturbing elements in the classroom, the student learns less, especially those who need more peace of mind. Stefan Löfven says I'm right, but we shouldn't interfere. I get so very tired that everyone can stand here and say that yes, there is a lot of disorder in school, it is messy and students do not get the peace of mind, but the teachers have to fix it. I'm so sick of it! Can't we give the teachers some support? If we can't tell the teachers to teach, we'll take responsibility. It is so obvious that you should not sit and surf instead of listening to the teacher.
i-10913770f7859f98-340	Madam President, I would like I am standing here with Jan Björklund, who has been the school minister responsible for these issues for longer than anyone else during the post-war period. Then he didn't come up with these brilliant ideas. You do the best in opposition, Jan Björklund, and that may be. What I'm saying is this: Of course we have problems with the fact that there are those who surf on the phones instead of participating in the lessons. The teachers and school leaders also want to get to grips with this, and it is possible to do so today. It's up to the school to choose the rules you want to set. Some schools have very clear rules. I think, of course, that where there are such problems, teachers and school leaders need to deal with it. They have that opportunity.
i-10913770f7859f98-344	Madam President, I would like When you are at your weakest, your welfare should be at its strongest. This is how the Social Democrats wrote in their election manifesto in 2014. But that was before S got the power. Let's see how it turned out. Many vulnerable people have lost their personal assistance. Care queues have more than doubled in just three years. New figures from the National Board of Health and Welfare today show that those who wait the longest in the emergency room are our oldest elderly. Every tenth person over 80 now has to wait more than eight hours. This is a sharp increase in just one year. Confidence in health care is declining in line with the term of office. The National Board of Health and Welfare also announces that no county council can meet the health guarantee. Queues are prolonged, and inequality is increasing. The government's own expert authority Health analysis warns that the government's attempts to change the healthcare guarantee lead to more inequality and that the stronger benefit at the expense of the weaker. With all this, have the Social Democrats not broken their promise to protect those who are weakest and need welfare most? Stefan Löfven also promised in his election manifesto that everyone with a diagnosis of cancer would be guaranteed started treatment at the latest after four weeks. Of those who suffer from Sweden's most common cancer, prostate cancer, 84 percent have not even started treatment within eight weeks. I think it is clear that you have failed your promises. Does the Prime Minister think that the Social Democrats have kept the promises to the cancer victims and to the most fragile in need of care and care?
i-10913770f7859f98-349	Madam President, I would like Of course, much remains to be done. There is no doubt about it. Care should be available, and care should be provided quickly if, for example, you have cancer. But somewhere you have to decide what to do. The queue billions imposed by the previous government had ceased to work. It was condemned by the National Audit Office, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Medical Association because it led the wrong way. As a result, those with mild ailments are first eligible for care rather than those with complex needs. So it was not care as needed. We must stand up for care as needed, not what provides the most income for the health institution or hospital. It's the first route. The second route is to ensure that there are sufficient resources. I think everyone knows that the major problem is the availability of staff. It doesn't matter how you design a queue billion if there aren't enough doctors, nurses, specialist nurses or whatever. That staff must be there. That is why more people need to be educated. We are also planning for another teacher training. We train many more nurses, specialist nurses and midwives. All these must be employed. For that, tax revenue is required. It is not possible to reduce taxes by 100 billion, as the four bourgeois parties want, because that does not make any sense. It is important to decide and ensure that there are sufficient resources, invest in each other, train more staff, strengthen staff skills and invest more in digitalisation. Much remains to be done in the area of digitalisation to facilitate and speed up healthcare. In addition, local care should be even stronger. More resources will be allocated to the health centres. That's how the care comes closer to the people. These are some of the ingredients of the strategy, and it is important to lie in it.
i-10913770f7859f98-355	Madam President, I would like First you read the statistics from the National Board of Health and Welfare, and then you hear Stefan Löfven say that there is still a lot to do. No, hopefully you don't. Hopefully you will be replaced and there will be some who can do something about the problems. Stefan Löfven also says that you have to decide what to do. But what does it look like? You talk a lot about the time of the Alliance in power, but take responsibility for what development has been like during the time of Social Democracy in power! The fixation at the Alliance is not sound. I understand the Prime Minister's interest in the Alliance, but the fact is, we spent more resources on every patient in the hospital. We shortened the care queues from 130 000 to 40 000. Now there's 84,000 in the line. Please answer the question: Have the Social Democrats kept their promise to the cancer patients and to the most vulnerable whom you promised in your election manifesto?
i-10913770f7859f98-359	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the cancer patients. There you started a good work on the standardised health care processes. We'll move on to that. I think it is for 25-30 different cancer diagnoses that this work is now being carried out gradually. I myself have taken part of the work in Umeå, for example, and it provides a faster treatment of cancer. Now the work will be expanded so that all the diagnoses included in the plans will have the opportunity to standardize the course of care. This is a concrete measure. I say this again: it is in getting more staff. More doctors are needed, so more doctors will be trained. More nurses, midwives and specialist nurses are needed. More nurses are needed so that doctors and nurses can do what they are absolutely best at. It's about getting more staff. Tens of thousands have been employed so far, and more have to be employed. It's our way.
i-10913770f7859f98-362	Madam President, I would like During the parliamentary party leader debate a month ago, moderate party leader Ulf Kristersson wondered why people were involved in building a house in Solna instead of seeing the real health problems. The building in Solna was NKS. That particular construction concerns me, Prime Minister, because it creates real health problems. The moderate prestige building NKS would initially cost 14 billion but is now up to 61 billion. All we know is that the price tag will not stay there. Cost increases of 250 percent, accusations of conflict, invoices without evidence; the list can be made as long as possible. The Minister of Finance has proposed a state audit. Others highlight the need for an external accident commission. Is the Prime Minister prepared to ensure that a public review of the NKS incident is carried out?
i-10913770f7859f98-365	Madam President, I would like Teres Lindberg asked an extremely important question. Let me begin by stating that responsibility for health care in Stockholm, and of course also New Karolinska, is basically a responsibility for the political leadership of the county council. Now there are an enormous number of question marks. The overall high cost mentioned by Teres Lindberg, including high consultancy costs, and all these reports on risks to patient safety are very worrying. I would like the management of the county council to demonstrate in a much clearer way that responsibility is taken. But NKS is also a national matter, not least for research and specialised care. We need to get all the information on the table so that all questions can be sorted out and such a thing does not happen again. Therefore, work is now under way in the Government Office to see how the government and the state can then contribute to a factual examination. We'll have to get back to you when it's done.
i-10913770f7859f98-370	Madam President, I would like In recent years, historically many people have sought and been protected in Sweden. We have taken responsibility, which many other countries have not done. Now it is important that those who have been protected here can also quickly establish themselves, enter society and enter the labour market. It is therefore very gratifying that new statistics from SCB show that it is much faster than before for new arrivals to establish themselves and get jobs. This is one of several positive trends at the moment, together with a reduction in climate emissions, better school outcomes and a fall in unemployment. The government has already done a lot with, for example, fast track for new arrivals, better validation and reinforced SFI. But we need to do even more. Everyone who has come here on the run will quickly be given the opportunity to contribute their knowledge and experience to our common society. Municipalities like Åre have been particularly successful. How does the Prime Minister intend to learn from good local examples of rapid establishment? What measures does the government intend to take?
i-10913770f7859f98-373	Madam President, I would like What Maria Ferm points out is important and correct. It is good to get into the debate that it is not just a matter of misery and difficulties. Of course, if we do the right thing, development can reverse and society can change. It is important to see that it takes shorter time for newcomers to get into work. We know it can be done if we invest enough in each other. We ensure that the Public Employment Service has better opportunities, for example through simplified employment support for those who need it. The previous government introduced a good thing, namely to transfer responsibility to the Employment Service and give these people rights. It is now being filled with obligations, such as making oneself employable. We can see that the extra services are useful. We are now up to 12 000 additional services, and that number will of course grow. They give, I myself have seen in place in Söderhamn, for example, people who come from other countries the opportunity to enter the labour market and do their part and earn their living.
i-10913770f7859f98-378	Madam President, I would like Many of today's great natural values have been built up through long-term management of Swedish forests. Ownership with freedom under responsibility has benefited the forest and the forest industry. We must safeguard this, not least if we are to make the transition to a more sustainable society. But now we are seeing ownership being attacked from an increasing number of directions. Various government decisions limit the possibility of using the forest. Sometimes ownership must be limited, for example in order to protect valuable nature. But then the landowners will also be replaced for this. That is an important principle. That is why I was surprised when Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog recently said that the government believes it would be unreasonable if the state were to replace anyone who cannot use their forest due to government decisions.
i-10913770f7859f98-382	Madam President, I would like Forests are an extremely important natural resource for us. We still have a lot to do with developing that industry. The forest is our green gold, and we will take care of it in the best way. Part of the forest we want to put off and protect. This has to do with biodiversity, which is extremely important for Sweden in the long term too. We're also going to grow forest. I would like us to increase the volume of managed forests, but this should be done in an environmentally friendly way. There are other ways of using the forest that are environmentally friendly. We have set aside money in the budget for compensation to private landowners. Of course it's important that they get it. I do not know if the Minister for the Environment has any exceptions, but we have set aside money for private landowners to be able to receive compensation when they set off forest. That is the intention – that they should have compensation.
i-10913770f7859f98-387	Madam President, I would like In the foreign policy debate yesterday, we heard an astounding statement by Foreign Minister Wallström. She referred condescendingly to NATO, questioned how NATO was led and indicated that NATO's defence guarantees did not apply. This is undermining the government's security policy, and that is undermining your own foreign declaration. To question NATO's Article 5, the paragraph on defence guarantees, is actually to question the whole basis of NATO. Either way, it does great damage to Swedish and European security. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the Speakers' Chair that Rule 5 is not so important. Does she mean, then, that our Baltic friends should not feel safe when they are members of NATO? My question to the Prime Minister is simple: is the government behind the Foreign Minister's statement?
i-10913770f7859f98-391	Madam President, I would like I think we should be careful about what has been said and not said in this case. I do not think the Foreign Minister said that Article 5 is not so important. I may be wrong, but I don't think she expressed herself that way. It does not matter – we in Sweden have no reason to criticise NATO's leadership, nor do we. We have very good cooperation with NATO and will continue to do so. We are building that cooperation on our freedom of alliance, for which we respect it. We choose to build our own military force. We are developing cooperation, both bilateral and multilateral, and we intend to continue to do so. We support and think to the extent that we can improve the transatlantic link. That is the strategy that we have always expressed. There is no change in Swedish security and defence policy. We stand by our freedom of alliance, and it is based on cooperation with NATO, among other things.
i-10913770f7859f98-395	Madam President, I would like Prior to the 2014 elections, one of the promises of the Social Democrats was that cancer patients would receive treatment within four weeks of a referral. Every day we can read about cancer patients who are waiting for care and who die in the care queue. In Sweden, a person with pancreatic cancer must, according to the rules, be operated within 36 days, i.e. within five weeks, after the diagnosis has been made. The reason is that this form of cancer is the deadliest of all and is often discovered very late. When the cancer is discovered, the tumor has often already spread to other organs. Then it is usually too late to operate. Denmark has a deadline of only two weeks. Every year more than 10,000 Swedish men are diagnosed with prostate cancer, and every year about 2,300 Swedish men die from the disease. The form of cancer that today causes the most deaths is also the form of cancer where waiting times for care are the longest. How many lives are to be sacrificed before you fulfill your election promise?
i-10913770f7859f98-400	Madam President, I would like As I said before, cancer care is one of the priority elements of our strategy. That is why we are pursuing the work of the previous government to standardise the course of care. We see that there is too much difference within the country in how quickly you get help and treatment. Standardised healthcare processes make it much faster and more equal care, so we need to invest more in this. It is again the staff issue that is crucial. We know that operations have been cancelled because, for example, there were no surgical nurses. The doctor was there, but there was no other staff. We need to make sure there are more staff. More staff, more resources, standardised healthcare processes and developing digitalisation and close care, especially our health centres, are the main ingredients of the strategy.
i-10913770f7859f98-404	Madam President, I would like The security scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency has so far led to the termination of two ministers and one State Secretary. The Prime Minister himself pointed out at his press conferences that what happened was an extremely serious threat to national security. The Prime Minister set up a special Security Policy Council when he took office, which, according to him, is to discuss issues relating to cybersecurity. Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson stated in an interpellation debate last autumn that this Council had had 28 meetings. About 20 of these were held before the security leak at the Swedish Transport Agency became public. In December, I put a clear written question to the Prime Minister who, strangely enough, was answered by the Minister of Justice instead. Now the Prime Minister has the chance to answer my question for himself. Has the Prime Minister at any time during all these 20 meetings with the Security Council received any indication of the security threat that he himself described as extremely serious for national security? If not, does the Prime Minister think he should have been informed?
i-10913770f7859f98-408	Madam President, I would like As Jan Ericson knows that this matter is subject to KU review, it is a bit rude for him to ask me that question because I am limited in my ability to answer. I have said before that I did not have any information indicating such a serious risk of leakage before the date I indicated to the Constitutional Committee in the reply I had given. That's the deal. Now the KU will have to look into this, and we will have to come back to the matter later.
i-10913770f7859f98-412	Madam President, I would like Today, Stefan Löfven, I have a visit to the Riksdag by Viktor Rydberg Gymnasium Odenplan student union, who sits in the public gallery and follows Question Time. They have done a particularly good job in the past year to influence their upper secondary school and education. That is why they are invited to Parliament and to me as chairman of the Education Committee. During the day we have discussed many things: stress and pressure and ill health that many young people experience and the importance of really living democracy and understanding what tools you have to influence your everyday life and education. We have also discussed the possibility of making wise study and professional choices. In order to make wise choices and choose your own future, you need knowledge. You must have been given the opportunity to try. Then you can have a real opportunity to choose.
i-10913770f7859f98-416	Madam President, I would like Nice to see the student council up there! That is absolutely right – democracy should really be lived. It's nice to hear that young people take that responsibility and want to develop it. We must ensure that young people have better opportunities to make their choices. This means, among other things, making prao mandatory; it is a way of doing this. However, we also need to have more study and career counselors and increase their skills so that they become even better at guiding young people. Unfortunately, over the years we have seen too many young people who have not received sufficient guidance and have gone into an education that unfortunately has not led to work but that they have later been forced into a new education. There is therefore every reason for us to help young people so that they can make wise, conscious choices.
i-10913770f7859f98-421	Madam President, I would like Last year several countries, including Sweden, Denmark and Norway, received strong criticism for indirectly supporting a women's centre in the West Bank named after a terrorist who murdered Israelis. After this, Denmark and Norway have learned lessons and tightened the requirements for aid. For example, the Norwegian Government has stated that it should not support organisations in Palestinian areas that encourage violence or promote hateful statements and anti-Semitism. My question to the Prime Minister is: What is Sweden doing to ensure that this does not happen again? Had it not been noted, the aid would probably have continued. How can the government guarantee that Swedish taxpayers' money will not end up in the pockets of terrorists?
i-10913770f7859f98-423	Madam President, I would like It is clear that our assistance should not go to organisations that encourage or support violence. Aid should be used to combat poverty and promote democracy and women's rights. I do not know the exact details of this case, but, of course, when we give aid, we shall prepare it in such a way as to ensure, as far as possible, that it goes to the right things. Control must also be carried out in such a way. We will check regularly, and where errors occur, they will be corrected. If there are serious errors, the Authority may draw the conclusion it shall draw.
i-10913770f7859f98-426	Madam President and Prime Minister. Today we can read a gloomy report in Expressen. It describes a school without order and security, with great differences between lessons, classes and schools. Students testify that they do not get the chance to get the good education they actually deserve as a result of mess and disorder, and no one takes responsibility. Instead, a school that we want to break exclusion risks cementing the same. Sweden will combine the ambition to compete with knowledge with the ambition to stay together economically and socially. Therefore, we can never accept that schools fail their missions. We believe that the state therefore needs to step in and take greater responsibility, set national quality targets, go in with support where schools lack and ultimately ensure that no bad teaching is conducted. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: why is the government prioritising the closure of well-functioning schools, which is the result of the government's ban on profits, rather than focusing government responsibility on tackling the poorly functioning schools that are currently failing their mission?
i-10913770f7859f98-429	Madam President, I would like That is a good question; it needs to be discussed and will be discussed. Sweden has one of the most liberal school systems in the Western world – perhaps the most liberal – in terms of the possibility of making money from school activities. No functioning school that is not only looking for high profits will have to close after a profit limit. However, this points out that we have a moderate party struggling with beaks and claws to pull as much money as possible out of the school system—that's what you're doing. I'm saying a reasonable return on equity is okay. We put it on a level that means that the vast majority will not have any problems at all. The large school groups, on the other hand, which reduce their teacher density in order to make money, should put money in it instead so that we get more teachers and more adults. Then it also gets calmer in school.
i-10913770f7859f98-432	Madam President, I would like Oserious telephone sales are a major problem for Swedish consumers, and 96 per cent of the people no longer want to enter into contracts by telephone. In order to strengthen confidence in the telephone sales market, the Liberals welcome the requirement for written agreements; it was our Minister Birgitta Ohlsson who set up the investigation. But lotteries are not covered by government bill. Last year, the Social Democrats' annual million-dollar winnings were recognised through online lottery sales. The combined lottery and the A-lottery have raised a total of SEK 500 million to the already well-stocked party treasury of the Social Democrats. Since 2014, more than 8 000 Swedes have ended up with Kronofogden through the notification from these two lotteries. The lottery of the sobriety movement has also been noted. Several EU countries also require written agreements for lottery sales, and the investigation found that there is really no obstacle to this in Sweden. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: why does the government choose to keep a sour cream file by exempting lottery sales from the requirement for a written agreement?
i-10913770f7859f98-435	Madam President, I would like It is clear that there should be order in the lottery sales as well. We follow it very closely to make sure it was shot impeccably. The proposal we have received concerns another law. Lottery sales are not covered by that law but are governed by another law. According to the form of government, we are obliged to prepare legislative proposals properly, and such a proposal would therefore require a new investigation. If the lottery sales don't work as intended, I'm no stranger to letting it be the subject of this. In this case, we did not have this opportunity. There is a proposal for a new law, and it does not cover lottery sales.
i-10913770f7859f98-439	Madam President, I would like Far too many people have faced rogue telephone vendors who deceive consumers into entering into contracts. They feed on the most vulnerable in our society. In Botkyrka, from which I come, rogue telephone vendors target people who do not fully master the Swedish language. With aggressive sales tricks they conclude senseless agreements, which it is often difficult or almost impossible to break.
i-10913770f7859f98-441	Madam President, I would like Mr Köse's question relates to the previous question. What we want to do is to introduce a written requirement. Many people who are called do not at all believe that they have bought anything but are forced to do so. Some kind of written endorsement of the acceptance of the purchase must therefore be made, and we are putting forward such a proposal. I think it will make a big difference and make people feel safer. In some situations, you may also need to think afterwards; you may find out afterwards that it was not so good and that you do not want to make the purchase. So this will make a big difference. It has been well received by consumers, and I think it will help a great deal.
i-10913770f7859f98-443	Madam President, I would like The school is the way into Swedish society. No matter what conditions you have and where you come from, everyone should be able to trust that the school gives as good a start in life as it is only possible. We know that the single most important thing for students' knowledge is how much time you get together with a skilled teacher. The result is therefore alarming when we compare teaching time in Sweden with that in other OECD countries. Swedish students have almost a whole year less teaching time with a skilled teacher. From moderate quarters, therefore, we have proposed that we continue to increase the teaching time, as the Alliance did. My question to the Prime Minister is simple: what does the government intend to do to increase students' teaching time?
i-10913770f7859f98-446	Madam President, I would like We intend to continue to employ more adults, including teachers, at school. We are now training more teachers – we are increasing the number of places in teacher education. We improve the quality of teacher training. We ensure that teachers receive higher salaries and are given more self-determination over their teaching, and we will gladly hire more teachers' assistants to enable teachers to actually get more time with the students. We are also making a number of other efforts. And, again, student health is probably so important. This re-emphasises the system we have today, in which the large private educational groups in particular are reducing the number of teachers. They have lower teacher density than municipal schools. That's not good. They get the same money, but in order for them to make a profit that they can take out of the company they reduce the teacher density. In this regard, I would be glad if the Moderates could say as we do: No, there must be some limitation to this. We'd rather spend the money on more teachers than on profits.
i-10913770f7859f98-449	Madam President, I would like When we begin this debate, a trial is under way against one of the worst terrorists of our time, Rakhmat Akilov, who, with government policy, could both escape the attention of the Security Service and deviate from an expulsion order. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, Rakhmat Akilov had been detained in the end waiting for expulsion. But with government policy, he was able to get into a truck and carry out an act of terror at the heart of our capital. We are debating the law on special foreign control and its application. The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly pointed out for several years that the law needs a variety of sharpenings to ensure that foreign terrorists known by the Swedish Security Service are not able to carry out or contribute to new terrorist crimes in Sweden. It is important to extend the use of detention centres when refusing asylum applications, and it is even more important to ensure that foreigners with known terror sympathies are put at the end of detention until expulsion can be carried out. The absolute greatest flaw in the Special Alien Control Act is precisely the fact that persons who are to be expelled under the law are actually released on the loose if there are enforcement barriers to expulsion. The limitations that the law currently imposes on terrorists who cannot be expelled relate to the obligation to report to the police and the fact that the police can conduct searches. So there is no direct obstacle to the terrorist who wants to hijack a truck and carry out a terrorist attack like what Rakhmat Akilov did. Madam President, I would like Thus, one of the laws intended to protect our society and our citizens from terrorist attacks is more or less ineffective in cases where there are enforcement barriers to expulsion. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that advocates that foreigners known by the Swedish Security Service as terrorist threats will never again move freely in our country. No other party imposes it as a basic requirement, which is strange to say the least. The other parties are welcome to tell us what the point is to offer foreigners who pose a threat of terror to our country to reside freely in our society. For the Swedish Democrats, it's just a big hole in the head. Madam President, I would like If I may guess, more parties will probably begin to suggest tightening up the law, possibly with the purpose of using just detention. Unfortunately, however, this will not happen until we have had a new terrorist attack that exposes the shortcomings that the Swedish democrats are now pointing out. It is in this way that the other parties have acted so far. A good example is precisely the proposal on the criminalisation of participation in terrorist organisations. In autumn 2015, following the high-profile terrorist attacks in Europe, including in Paris, the government considered that it was time to update our Swedish terror laws. Note that it was after the terrorist attacks. The problem was that a number of necessary proposals were rejected, including from the Swedish Democrats, to criminalise participation in terrorist organisations. However, following the terrorist attack of 7 April 2017, the Minister of Justice stated that gaps in the terror laws would be closed, including through the criminalisation of participation in terrorist organisations. Moreover, such a law would have been very appropriate to have in place now that an increasing number of IS terrorists come and are expected to come back to Sweden. However, a bill on participation in terrorist organisations will not be presented until next year. The only question is why the government is building gaps in the law from the very beginning. You're welcome to answer that. At the moment, there are few conditions to prosecute returning terrorists, because our legislation is weak and the evidence is difficult. As a result, a majority of the returning IS terrorists will go free in our country. Madam President, I would like The uncontrolled mass immigration gave us Rakhmat Akilov, and who knows how many more of the same kind. We have inadequate legislation against terrorism, we have over 2 000 radical Islamists listed by the Security Service of our country and we have returning IS terrorists from Syria and Iraq who we have no real means of prosecuting and incarceration. We have no way of cutting citizenship and expelling. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a terro r crisis. Is it really too much to ask, then, that at least foreign terrorists, who are to be expelled under the Special Alien Control Act, should not be allowed to go freely in our country when enforcement barriers exist? Anyone who really does not believe that the Swedish Democrats' demands for tightening up the law on special foreign control should be a basic requirement in Swedish politics can in no way stand on Sweden's and Swedes' side in the fight against Islamist terrorism. Madam President, I think that the voters should take this into account in the elections this autumn. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-10913770f7859f98-462	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a proposal for a report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act. But in the political context that we are in right now, there is actually something else that we debate and relate to. Madam President, I would like Just lay me down and explain how I'm thinking. It is clear that we have a growing nationalism both in Sweden and in the rest of Europe. It has become increasingly important for the bourgeois alliance to point out that it is precisely Swedes that Sweden should primarily take care of and not some others. Some others mean immigrants, new arrivals and asylum seekers. We see this in today's debate in this House, when the bourgeois alliance is putting forward a proposal that will mean that more and more foreigner controls will be carried out by foreign citizens. However, we must see the proposal that will be put through today in this House in a wider context. The Moderates in Gothenburg have made a commercial that portrays Gothenburg as a lawless city. It might as well have been the Swedish Democrats who had made this commercial. But worse, it is not only Donald Trump, who is paraphrased in the film, who would recognize himself in this description. Every ultra-right that has ever existed in these contexts would recognize itself in the story, as it consists of several – not all – fascist basic elements. The film refers to a bygone era of harmonious community that has now been destroyed by criminal immigrants – no one can mistake the image language – and promises to restore the lost paradise and to bring law and order again. At the same time, the party leaders of the Moderates say that asylum seekers should not be entitled to health care and that their children should not be allowed to go to school. When a party like the Moderates clearly believes that people of another nationality or origin should not have the same basic rights as the rest of the population, something has broken. The Moderates point out immigrants as less worthy of people than Swedes and as responsible for crime and disorder in society. It is an inhuman and nationalist policy and a flirtation with xenophobia and racism. Asylum policy today is for the Alliance, but partly also for the government, about making the situation for new arrivals and asylum seekers as bad as possible to make them not go to Sweden but to some other country. In migration language this is called push-and-pull factors. I call it an inhuman policy. Madam President, I would like There's talk of foreign theft leagues and suburbs that no longer look like old times. The picture painted is that the crime we see in Sweden today is committed only by people who are not Swedes. There is talk of a Sweden that probably never existed but which in the world of Moderates was a whole white, Swedish, quiet and safe society. This is a utopia. Xenophobic stereotypes are being used to smudge their own policies, which have created class divisions and criminality. According to the Moderates, the only way to a safe Sweden is for the police to hunt and throw out people who have fled their homeland. Madam President, I would like The proposal that will go through today is for more foreign controls to be carried out. There is nothing wrong with the matter – quite a few are being done today. This is particularly important in order to stop suspected terrorists. But it is also a proposal that, in many ways, opens doors. It is a little laughable that work on foreign controls is already being done by the Alliance and the government in their agreement to create relatively ineffective legislation to stop terrorism. Yet the Alliance proposes an announcement, and the representatives of the parties in the government do not reserve themselves. There is something unique happening in the Parliamentary Committee on Justice right now. That is where the government is most afraid of conflicts with the Alliance. What also points to a flatness on the part of the government is that the Social Democrats and the Green Party do not reserve for almost any announcement proposed in committee. This means that it is a bourgeois policy that goes through. The Social Democrats and the Green Party agree to announcements that the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats propose together. There is a cowardice in the Committee on Justice in matters of law and order that surprises me. S and MPs are so afraid to create conflict areas that they instead triangulate until there is no longer any difference between bourgeois politics and social democratic politics. As a left-winger, I can't stand by and watch. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-9HWYaHr7ersErPK2Ktmo91	Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are dealing with the Government's letter of 2017 on the application of the Special Alien Control Act. When this law was introduced, it was also decided that there should be parliamentary control of how the government applies the terrorist regulations and the rules on coercive measures. This is done by letter to the Riksdag, which this time covers the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. The law aims to combat terrorism, and the law provides that a foreigner may be expelled if specifically required for national security purposes or if it is feared that the person will commit or contribute to a terrorist offence. If an expulsion order from the Finnish Immigration Service cannot be enforced because, for example, there is a risk of death penalty or torture, the authority shall decide that expulsion shall not be carried out. The authority may also decide on the obligation to notify the person or that special coercive measures may be applied for reconnaissance purposes, such as search warrant or secret interception. The Finnish Immigration Service may also grant a temporary stay. According to the law, a foreigner may also be detained if there is a decision on expulsion under this law or if it is likely that such a decision will be issued and there is reason to assume that the foreigner will otherwise stay away from or pursue criminal activities in Sweden or whether his or her identity is unclear. This is stated in § 8 of the Act. During the period under consideration, the Government has taken four decisions under this law. Two of the decisions rejected an appeal against the Finnish Immigration Service's expulsion decision. A decision suspended the execution of expulsion at the request of the European Court of Human Rights pending review. A decision rejected the request for suspension of the obligation to notify. Madam President, I would like When six of Parliament's parties concluded the second agreement on counter-terrorism in June 2017, the Special Alien Control Act was included as one of the 16 measures. We found that the law is a valuable tool for dealing with people who are deemed to be qualified security threats to Sweden. We also noted, Madam President, that the law is in need of revision because in some respects it is perceived as difficult to absorb and contains gaps. The Security Service has also asked for certain provisions of the Act to be clarified and gaps to be closed, including the period of detention prior to a decision. All the points in the agreement, some with several elements, are taken care of but are in slightly different phases of the process. We agreed that an investigation to review the law should be set up. The Ministry of Justice has implemented the various parts of the agreement in various ways during the eight months that have passed. This point is included in the process, and we know that the Ministry is working on the committee directives, which are planned to be decided shortly. We from the government parties are anxious that the review will get under way. We know that the directives are under way, and we know that the government is keeping the agreements that are being made. We do not think that an announcement is necessary, but we find it difficult to oppose it because the issue is so far advanced and we agree. With this, Madam President, we propose that the Parliament add the letter to the record.
i-10913770f7859f98-480	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want foreigners who are considered by the Swedish Security Service to be a terrorist threat to our country to never again be able to move freely in our society. This should be done partly by keeping the main screenings as the rule and for expulsions to be valid for life and partly by keeping foreigners who pose a threat of terror in custody until expulsion can be carried out. This is not what the government wants. Sure, a review of the law is announced, but when the Minister of Justice takes his toes off, he talks about a tightening up of the law that may mean that someone will be watched by electronic surveillance. For real – what values are the Social Democrats and the government defending when foreigners who pose a threat of terror against our country are allowed to move freely in our society? I think the voters are very interested in the very motive in this clear dividing line between the Red-Green Government and the Swedish Democrats.
i-10913770f7859f98-482	Madam President, I would like This law is handled by the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Security Service. They can decide whether an expulsion decision should be for life, i.e. without a time limit. They can also set a time limit. So it's already in the law. There are opportunities in the review to review things that you do not think are working. In particular, the Security Service has said that it is the time before decisions that they experience that complicates matters. This period is limited to either two or three months or a maximum of twelve months. If it is an issue to be dealt with in particular by the European Court of Human Rights, it takes time. Then this time limit may fall so that you have to release someone that you would not want to have let go. This is, above all, what the Security Service has asked for. I want to wait. The Committee directives are under way, and I look forward to a revision of the law. Of course we should have an effective law. However, I do not agree with the likelihood that the measures pointed out by the Swedish Democrats will be included.
i-10913770f7859f98-486	Madam President, I would like I don't think Helene Petersson in Stockaryd has to wait for anything. All you have to do is tell us exactly which government intends to allow terrorists who pose a threat to our country to be granted temporary residence permits here and otherwise to go freely with the obligation to report to the police. And what is your intention not to allow expulsions to apply for life? What is the government's motive for welcoming these people back, who have been expelled from our country for very good reasons? I want to hear what is the motive for us to be nice to terrorists who pose a threat to our country.
i-10913770f7859f98-488	Madam President, I would like I have full confidence in the work that the Security Service is doing with the Migration Agency in this case, and I have no reason to either try or question this work.
i-10913770f7859f98-489	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to say that combating terrorism is something that is extremely important in a democratic society. No individuals or groups of individuals – nor states – should be subjected to pressure from people who act with crime as a means. Sweden's responsibility to combat terrorism does not only apply to its own population. This also applies to other states and people throughout the world. Terrorism is an international phenomenon, and it is only in this way that we can combat terrorism effectively. We cannot lock ourselves in here and try to solve just our problems, but we must also have some foresight. When we talk about combating terrorism, it is also important to bear in mind that it is not new criminal law that is the solution in essence. This is usually the spinal response to all sorts of events that occur on a very large scale every day in the world. In this way, we are far more spared than other countries, but it is terrible when it happens. Instead, the solution is to be able to secure evidence. Otherwise, the criminal law rules do not matter. There is much more to be done there through international cooperation. We want to prosecute all the people who commit crimes, no matter where the crimes are committed. You should not be able to return to Sweden after you have committed war crimes in other countries or participated in various terrorist activities. For example, the Security Service must have access to intelligence information at the same time as the preliminary investigation is being conducted. There are also many other things that are outside this dossier, but this is important to say. I may find it a little strange that relativism in Left Party Sweden goes so far that you hardly see a single social problem. We want to strengthen the rule of law. What is very strange about this matter – and which I think is an important part of it – is that you make references that mean that the Aliens Act should apply mutatis mutandis. This can be tackled because it is contrary to the principle of legality in the case of coercive measures against people, which may lead to failure to enforce decisions or to failure to comply with decisions if they are tried in law. Decisions on this type of measure should be based on a solid basis. It is therefore important to strengthen legal certainty also by always knowing exactly what applies in the Special Alien Control Act. You don't do that today. There is a long line of references to the Aliens Act that are not very clear. Another general point is that counter-terrorism measures should be as effective and as accurate as possible. It requires some reflection when it comes to introducing rules as legislators, because at the same time we do not want ordinary honest citizens to be affected by different types of restrictions on their freedom of movement and other things. In the light of this letter, there are also the decisions taken in the past on parliamentary control. I would say that this has been explained fairly well, so I will not go into it. However, there is still reason to mention the development of international terrorism, because this is somehow a context in this context. The great terrorist threat, both in Sweden and internationally, is still motivated by violent Islamist extremism, i.e. people or groups who support or advocate a global or regionally violent struggle against those who are perceived as enemies of Islam. This is the description of the development of international terrorism provided in the Government's letter. It can also be noted that the number of passengers has decreased in recent years. This may be due to several circumstances, such as the increased control of the Turkish border and Daish's increasingly crowded military position. It is also possible that the dream of the caliphate no longer exists to the same extent in many of those who sympathise with this terrorist organisation. However, it will still be possible to reach Syria and Iraq primarily through Turkey, despite the fact that it has become more difficult. What is problematic and worrying, as the letter shows, is that the violent Islamist environment has been spread throughout the country for a few years after having previously been concentrated in the three metropolitan areas. The emphasis is still on big cities and southern Sweden, but the spread has increased. As far as the announcement is concerned, I think it is very good that the government representatives in the committee also find it acceptable, because it is urgent that something be done in this area. While this is covered by the agreement on counter-terrorism, at least when the alliance parties wrote their follow-up motion, no action whatsoever had been taken, despite the fact that at the beginning of last year the Swedish Security Service and the Migration Agency made a variety of proposals which also applied to the rules of the Aliens Act in both security and qualified security matters. This was part of this. It is appropriate to take into account the views expressed by the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Security Service. Without saying in detail what should be done, I think it is important to do this review and ensure that the legislation can be applied in more cases than is happening today.
i-10913770f7859f98-503	Madam President, I would like We support in the report an alliance-based motion which, through our support, has led to a declaration. It is a matter of clarifying and broadening the application of the law which allows more foreigners who pose a threat of terror to be covered by the law. It is natural for us to support good proposals that improve the possibility of strengthening security in our country, even though we did not write the proposal first. My question to the Moderates is why you are pleased that the Special Alien Control Act is designed in such a way that foreigners who pose a threat of terror to our country can move freely in our society when an enforcement barrier prevails in expulsion decisions.
i-10913770f7859f98-505	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to the question is that we do not think that people who in any way pose a threat to Sweden and Swedish interests should be allowed to move freely in Sweden. That is why there are a number of different restrictions in the law on special foreign control. This can range from notification, supervision or detention to various types of measures that may not be provided for in the legislation but are carried out by Säpo's staff to keep track of people who pose threats. What is problematic, and that is one of the things we point out, is the possibility of keeping people in detention which in fact constitutes an obvious threat to Sweden according to the assessments that Swedish authorities have made, for example after an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. This is also a point made by the Security Service. The ability to keep people in custody is too tight. We do not specify what to do, but we think that we should ensure that this possibility can be applied in more cases. This is one of the problems we are pointing out.
i-10913770f7859f98-508	Madam President, I would like Unlike the Moderates, we specify what we think should be done. We believe that those who pose a threat to national security, which the Security Service considers to be a terrorist threat, should not be allowed to walk freely in our society. For example, the Moderates and the Government are pleased that persons considered by the Swedish Security Service to be a terrorist threat will be required to report to the police. When we have an act of terrorism in Stockholm so fresh in mind, I wonder how a terrorist is prevented from carrying out such a terrorist attack with a duty to report to the police. I'm not entirely satisfied with the way the law is designed. However, it is quite clear that the government and the Alliance are very pleased with the balance in the legislation that allows people who are to be expelled because they pose a threat of terror to our country to be detained, but are not released into our society when there are enforcement barriers.
i-10913770f7859f98-511	Madam President, I would like There are several ways of dealing with enforcement barriers, and enforcement barriers usually apply to a country. There is already nothing in today's legislation to prevent a number of countries from being designated for expulsion in the decision. My view is that if people are to be expelled because of this legislation, the aim must be that expulsion takes place as soon as possible and that it is actually carried out. It is in the other situations that restrictions on the freedom of persons, albeit on good grounds and in accordance with the legislation, will be necessary in some way. It is a false description that people suspected of dealing with terrorism can move freely in society. I would say that is not the case. Then the question is just how far the restriction goes. Of course, if you are a real threat, you should not have the opportunity to commit an act of terror. This legislation also applies to other types of crime, such as other offences that may pose a threat to national security. The legislation should be as effective and accurate as possible, as I said before. It must also be able to be applied in more cases. For this to happen in a way that leads to sustainable decisions, legal certainty needs to be improved, so that decisions cannot be attacked afterwards because they would be unclear in any respect.
i-10913770f7859f98-515	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and therefore for the Parliament to decide to put the government's letter of special foreign control to the record. It is positive that today there is broad consensus behind this proposal, just as there was broad agreement on both the first and the second agreements on the fight against terrorism. As several speakers have already pointed out, a review is under way. I hope that we will soon see the directives for it so that we can move on with this. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that we are debating this today. It is good that there is a letter in the Act that the government should return to the Riksdag every year with a report on the Act on Special Alien Control in order to guarantee and secure parliamentary control. When we have a political situation where it blows pretty hard and when there are recurring terrorist threats, it is important that you do things in the right order, remain calm and do not rush away. It is therefore important that the amendments to the Special Alien Control Act, which may be considered, are carefully examined and that we know exactly what the consequences are. There, cross-block unity will certainly be necessary. I would like to explain a little bit about Linda Snecker's question why we in the government parties have not reserved ourselves here. The proposal for an announcement made by the alliance parties in committee is, of course, a review, and we fully agree on that. Are we really, on the part of the government parties, to reserve ourselves against such a decision, because it is not our parties that have tabled the proposal? No, I don't think so. I think it is better that we do not reserve our time and work on it. It is, of course, the work of the opposition to set fire to the blowtorch and to ensure that we on the government side work quickly, and of course we shall do so. But when we can see that we are moving in the same direction, namely towards a review in which we have even jointly sketched out where it is going to land, I do not think we need to go all the way and be against this. I think it is rather positive that we can see that future together. It is so important for the whole of society to support this, precisely in terms of strengthening the legislation on terrorism. I would therefore like to thank you for the floor and once again call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-10913770f7859f98-523	Madam President, I would like As my colleague before me did, this is a debate that we have every year. For those who watch the debate online a little later today, I can mention that this law is therefore about expelling persons who are either deemed to be a threat to national security or deemed to be a terrorist threat or a combination of the two. We have had this debate every year, and every year all seven other parties have eagerly explained to me and my colleagues in the SD that the law is quite adequate. The other day I was amused to look at previous debates on this subject. A couple of years ago, I think it was 2015, Ekeroth Lundgren, who is sitting here now, tried to defend the law when I said it needed to be improved by asking me a question: ..................................................... This question stuck in my memory because it so clearly symbolizes everything that has been wrong with politics in Sweden for several decades. Elin Lundgren's view was that someone should first have done something before she was prepared to change the law. Let it sink in. Too little and too late is something I come back to all too often in this House. Let me take a nearby example. Five people would be alive today if you'd listened to me and SD. That's the simple truth. Akilov had never entered the country with our politics, and had he yet been in the country, he would not have been at large but in custody. Not according to this law but a nearby law, the Aliens Act, and time there was. I've been going on about these rules since I entered the Riksdag. Akilov applied for a residence permit in 2014. The first time I proposed changes to this law and the Aliens Act was 2010. We had time to correct. If you had listened, we would have made the changes, and they would have lived today. Not to mention the Ikea murder of an asylum seeker who had been rejected and wanted revenge on Swedes. You thought it was a good idea to let him wrangle freely in the streets and squares. Thank you for choosing Sweden, said a famous former Prime Minister. The same Prime Minister said open your hearts! Another prime minister said, "We're not building walls." I've heard so many nonsenses from you all these years. Today's debate is not about the Aliens Act, but about a nearby law, the Special Alien Control Act. But the principle is exactly the same, as my colleague said. The report contains an announcement. It is good that after eight years with us in Parliament, the alliance parties begin to wake up in part. The announcement has two parts. One is that LSU should include violations of two other laws, the Finance Act and the Recruitment Act, which we, as is well known, agree with. The second part is about the time of detention. Here, the majority believe that it should be possible to have a longer period than twelve months at the preparatory stage. It's a small step forward. One of the key problems, however, is that detention is not automatic. Allowing a possible terrorist or someone who poses a threat to national security or someone who is a combination of the two to have an opportunity to move freely in the country is fine with you. When a person has received an expulsion order, he or she shall not reside in the country. How, then, can you be satisfied that there is a possibility of a temporary residence permit with only a notification requirement? Why do you want to leave open gaps in the law so that it can be misinterpreted or misjudged by an official? We have seen many government officials in Sweden do misassessments over the years. The report contains examples of someone who no longer wants a notification requirement in Sweden but has been refused. This means that there is at least one person who is either a threat to national security or a possible terrorist who moves freely in Sweden under notification obligation. So there is at least one person walking around with these very small limitations. Anyone who is required to report can still drive a truck on Drottninggatan; I hope you understand that. With regard to the 12-month deadline, why should we have a time limit at all? The Alliance wants to see a longer deadline. That's great. Should it be 18 months or 24 months? Would we be happy if Akilov number two came out after 18 or 24 months instead of 12? Does that make us happier? Do people feel safer then? No. According to our movements, there are many other parts of the law that need to be changed. I'm not going through everyone here. You can read them. An absurdity is Section 3 which gives the Finnish Immigration Service, this activist authority, power over the government, which cannot deviate from the decision if the Finnish Immigration Service considers that enforcement obstacles exist. That's totally unreasonable. It is also totally unreasonable for a person expelled under this law to be given the opportunity to apply for a residence permit. Who came up with the brilliant idea? The bottom line is that the announcement is a small step forward. But even though we have been pointing out shortcomings in the law for years, we are still the only ones who really want to do something about it. The only responsible thing is to support SD's motion on the matter that expulsion always takes place when a person poses a threat or is a possible terrorist, that he should always be detained for an unlimited period of time until he goes out and that he should not be given the opportunity to apply for a residence permit while in detention or to be expelled. I ask you, for once, to stop being wise and not to reason as Elin Lundgren did in 2015. You have seen that we have been right in the area of immigration policy and criminal policy. The Moderates' criminal policy is our criminal policy. They've taken it straight off and read it before. If, for once, you put aside the prestige and do what is right for the Swedish people, we may be able to prevent more people from dying.
i-10913770f7859f98-541	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have existed as a party much longer than the Swedish Democrats, and many of our criminal policy proposals already existed before the Swedish Democrats existed as a party. I have pointed this out earlier in this House. You can have different values that are more or less well-founded, but the facts are facts. Many of the questions raised by Kent Ekeroth do not immediately apply to the law on special foreigner control, but to the Foreigners' Act. Here are a number of suggestions from the Swedish Security Service to improve the regulatory framework. Without specifying what has a direct bearing on this, I assume that the government, which received this letter, which was drafted in conjunction with the Migration Agency, also takes account of the proposals contained there, because it is a whole. What is also the fact is that according to the instructions, the Finnish Immigration Service will contribute to the work that the Swedish Security Service is doing to combat terrorism. I assume that's what happens. We also know from the contacts we have, for example with the Swedish Security Service, that there is a good collaboration with the Migration Agency, but that there are a number of problems, as this letter also points out. There are things that can and should be improved, and it is clear that all of that should be addressed. Finally, Rakhmat Akilov was not a case for the Special Alien Control Act.
i-10913770f7859f98-545	Madam President, I would like It is a bit problematic to boast that you had suggestions before SD was even formed if you haven't driven them for 30 years. What's the point of that? Is it something to be proud of having proposals 30 years ago? You have actively opposed them in the Swedish parliament. The fact that you had such suggestions so long ago that no one remembers it certainly does not impress you. Anti Avsan assumes that the Government takes account of the proposals and that the Migration Agency contributes to the work against terrorism. Of course, we should have confidence in the increasingly politicised authorities as far as possible. But just as the Moderates during their government possession criticised the courts for being activist when they tried to impose penalties, we must now reduce the scope for government officials to be activist so that they cannot make mistakes and have no choice but to lock in possible terrorists. That is the task of politics. We must minimise the risk of mistakes being made, especially now that we do not even have official responsibilities so that they can get away with it. That Akilov was never subject to the law of special foreign control, I said myself in my speech, but the point is still the same. What if it's someone who's the subject of LSU and we have a duty to report for a guy who walks around our streets and squares-- is that reassuring? No, it's not. As my colleague said earlier, there is no rhyme or reason. Who are you trying to protect? It is thus a foreigner who is not a Swedish citizen and who is a threat to Sweden in some way. This foreigner, who has nothing to do with Sweden, you are trying to protect. Then you put his security, integrity and rights above the security of the Swedish people. That must be a completely incomprehensible attitude.
i-10913770f7859f98-550	Madam President, I would like When deciding different legal issues, it is always a balance. Of course, if there are strong reasons to intervene against a person, they should apply. It is not a question of safeguarding the integrity of an individual in situations where there is a basis for intervention. I would also like to say that we have pursued our proposals in all situations where we have had the opportunity to do so. Under the moderate governments that have taken place in this country, there has been quite a lot in the area of criminal policy. I can mention, for example, the principle of criminal value, which was not central in Sweden but which is currently undisputed. It is the criminal value of the offences that must be at the heart of the penalties imposed and the penalties that can result from the offences. This was not the case before, but was pushed through under moderate government. When we were in government in the years 2006–2014, many of our proposals were implemented, but not all of them. We have not always been in a position of government, nor have we been able to enforce the proposals. In some ways, however, reality has caught up with others. Although there is a great deal else to be desired, I think that the government has a greater understanding of the problems in this area. Maybe it's not that strange. The problems have become apparent because we have so many areas in Sweden where crime dominates. Of course it's a social problem. One problematic scenario could be that this spreads in the same way as sympathies for Islamic terrorism, as I mentioned, have spread in Sweden. I very much hope that the government is quick on this and many other issues.
i-10913770f7859f98-553	Madam President, I would like Anti Avsan said it's about a balance. Sure, it does, but there have not been very difficult balances on many of these issues. Mr Avsan mentioned that they have pushed the questions when they had the opportunity when they were in government. During half the reign of the Alliance, we sat in the Riksdag. Over the four years, we proposed removing the penalty rebate for those aged 18 to 21 and the conditional release and introducing border controls, identification checks and much more. None of this happened during eight years of alliance government – nothing! It happened during the Social Democratic government. I do not have much for the Social Democrats, but frankly they did much of what you never wanted or dared during your open-your-heart time. They did something as soon as they came in. It says a lot about the situation in this country. They were the ones who introduced ID controls, not you or your government. Now they begin with 18 - 21, seven months before the elections. It's always the same: Seven months before an election they release test balloons, get great headlines in the media and people think they actually make a difference. In the last four years of your government's possession, you could have got through everything that you are now going out in the media and changed your mind about, particularly in criminal policy, where you certainly have with you many of the other alliance parties. You could have got it through for the last four years, but you chose not to, and not only that: you actively argued against us on all these issues every time for four years – every time! It gets a little bloated when you stand here and say, "We tried, and we did what we could." No, you didn't do what you could. You could have done a lot more. I can leave you a long, exhaustive list, whenever you want, to prove this.
i-10913770f7859f98-557	Madam President, I would like With the support of an EU directive, the Government has proposed that in cases where a defendant has not been notified of a summons to a main criminal hearing, the case should not be decided. This means that the possibility currently available in the Code of Criminal Procedure to decide on a case in the defendant's absence will be abolished. The proposal is ill-concerned with the reality of both courts and committees, with a large number of criminal cases which are constantly being suspended because the defendant does not show up. It is a problem not only for judges, lawyers, prosecutors and possibly interpreters, who have reserved part of or all of their day and simply have to go home or have major gaps in their respective working days, but also for the victims, who do not get redress within a reasonable time. It also entails a considerable financial cost for the State to suspend the main proceedings. The Swedish National Audit Office estimated in 2010 that the cost of a suspended trial was approximately SEK 11,000, and that sum is most likely significantly higher today. Cancelled negotiations also run counter to our demands for faster processing times and processes. The Swedish Democrats believe that there is an obvious risk that the proposal will lead to the defendant staying out of the way to escape the summons to the main hearing. This is serious. We therefore think that the proposal largely overlooks the obligations that the person should actually have to be present at the trial. This is a strange signal that the proposal sends out. If the judiciary is to function and confidence in the judiciary persists, trials must be able to be held when they are due. We therefore call for greater responsibility for those who do not do their duty. Firstly, we want to see stricter rules on penalties. In our opinion, periodic penalty payments shall always be imposed if the defendant or a witness fails to attend the hearing. In order for the penalty payment to be effective, we also want to supplement it with compensation corresponding to the actual cost of the cancelled main hearing. Secondly, we want to facilitate the use of so-called simplified service. Today, there are rules on information obligations and time limits which make the use of this notification procedure more difficult. In particular, the addressee of the service must have been informed that a simplified service may be applied and, in addition, a time limit of 10 weeks which, in the event of a personal meeting, runs from that date until the documents are sent. We believe that the government should loosen these provisions by either removing the obligation to provide information in order to use simplified service or by extending the allowed time limit in ten weeks' time. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the reservation.
i-10913770f7859f98-565	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by reading out the legal text contained in the implementation of the presumption of innocence directive, which we have received from the European Union. Here's the text of the law with the renewal that's being made: If the case can be satisfactorily investigated, the case may be decided even though the defendant has appeared only through an agent or has not been heard, if the defendant, after being served with the proceedings, has deviated or remains absent in such a way that he or she cannot be picked up for the main hearing. In the cases referred to in this paragraph, the case may therefore be decided even if the defendant has not been served with a summons to the hearing. It is this small change that we shall take a position on. The rules of service shall provide reasonable assurance that the defendant has been able to inspect the documents in the case before the Court of Justice. We all think that is quite obvious, given the legal certainty that we still want to safeguard in this country. At the same time, the provisions must not be designed in such a way as to prevent or delay the review of the Court of Justice. The provisions on service must therefore be properly designed to meet both legal certainty and efficiency requirements. The existing rules that simplify service are balanced, and the committee does not think that the change I have been talking about would be a reason for changing the rules as proposed by the motionaries. That is why I support the committee's proposal in the report.
