i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-2	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce healthcare queues in Sweden. Accessibility in health care is a priority for the government, and it is an issue that we are following closely. The question of accessibility in healthcare cannot be resolved by a single simple measure. It must be tackled from several different directions based on the complex health care system we have in Sweden. Important factors are the organisation and staffing of operations and the provision of skills. It is also important to mention that care needs are increasing, including as the population grows older. Large retirements and insufficient access to staff impose additional requirements for effective organised care with the right skills in the right place. The production of care has increased, but not enough to meet the growing needs. Of course, therefore, we cannot be satisfied with today's accessibility figures. By supporting the county councils for effective organised care, with the right expertise in the right place, we can provide the conditions for shortening care queues. In the Government's investment in the professional billions, there are therefore, among other things, funds to the county councils to offer the opportunity for nurses to undergo specialist training. In order to create long-term planning conditions, the government has also increased the general state grants to county councils by billions, and further increases have been announced for 2019 and 2020. The Government has also provided funds for the expansion of the number of training places in midwifery, nursery and specialist nurses' training courses and has introduced a possibility for skills development for temporary employees. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to review the specialist nursing training so that the future education will meet the changing needs of health care. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has also proposed an extension of the number of training places in medical education. The Government is also investing SEK 2 billion annually in 2018 to 2021, which complements professional billions in a powerful way in order to further stimulate good conditions for healthcare employees and develop healthcare operations. For example, working conditions can be reviewed, staffing increased and working methods developed that contribute to maintaining healthcare professionals. The Government also allocates SEK 500 million per year in 2015 – 2018 to shorten waiting times and reduce regional differences in cancer care. One of the most important measures is the introduction of standardised health care processes. In January 2018, the Government decided on a proposal for healthcare to be given close to the population with increased accessibility. Here we propose, among other things, a reinforced guarantee of care in primary care, where the applicant will already receive a medical assessment within three days of receiving a certified health care professional. The Government's investment in patient billions in 2018 will, among other things, stimulate the healthcare providers' introduction of the enhanced health guarantee. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop the monitoring of healthcare accessibility. In order to further strengthen the ongoing efforts to increase accessibility, the spring change budget also adds SEK 600 million. In the short and long term, it is essential to have a simultaneous focus on preventive work, an accessible first-line care and a specialised care with high quality. We will focus on creating the conditions for finding long-term solutions with joint responsibility in regular structures. Long-term and tackling the problem from several directions is what is needed – not trying to tackle complex problems with trans-simple solutions.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-13	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. This is a lot about priorities and what you want to do. I heard that the Minister for Social Affairs read out a number of measures to be taken, but we still have the facts in the form of the picture I now show of Sweden before and after the government took office. Care queues have doubled. Before the government came to power, Mr President, the Alliance saw to it to halve the healthcare queues, and now they have doubled. This is very worrying – not for the Minister for Social Affairs and myself, who are healthy and standing in this Chamber today, but for all the sick who have to wait longer and longer to receive treatment. We can also discuss why we have state, county councils and municipalities. This is, of course, partly a philosophical and ideological issue, but of course it is in order for us to ensure that the weakest are helped. That is why we have this community in Sweden. And when it does not work, Mr President, even though we have the world's highest taxes, there is an organisational error – a system error. It is not always more money that is needed. Perhaps another way of organising this is needed. Today, more than 100 000 Swedes are in healthcare queues. This must be regarded as a major failure for the current government. At the same time, it shows that the care queues have doubled while the Alliance managed to halve them, that the Alliance's queue billions were something positive for the people in line. Mainly, left-wing county councils have major problems with both finances and queues, in the middle of a boom. Especially the gender of surgery has grown avalanche. In Social Democratically controlled Västerbotten, for example, only half of the patients receive an operation within the limits of the health guarantee. These are very low levels. In Skåne, the Social Democracy has decided that it is possible to scrap the care choices altogether. I do not believe that future health care can only be provided by public actors, but it should always be jointly funded. When we have got a variety of different actors in healthcare, we have seen how things have improved in some places, not only for the patients but also for the staff who work there. It has also improved for many female entrepreneurs who run a health institution, for example. I am therefore very concerned, Mr President, particularly that the person who is to be delivered in the West North may be delivered in the car. ABF has taken a course in how this should be possible. I do not want to live in such a country, and that is why there is a need for change after 9 September.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-20	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important, Erik Andersson, not to believe and rely on simple solutions to complex problems. I will make a few brief contributions regarding the development that we have within the Swedish health care system. Although we have increased waiting times, healthcare in Sweden is perhaps one of the absolute best in the world. The Lancet published a survey last autumn comparing 195 countries and looking at the mortality rate in 32 diagnoses. Sweden landed on top four in that survey. It is important to highlight this when we have a fantastically competent and skilled health care staff who every day deliver high-quality healthcare to Sweden's citizens so that we do not unnecessarily raise your concerns that do not need to be awakened. But let me be the first to say that I agree that we have an accessibility problem that we need to solve. The queues started to increase already during the queue billions of dollars, early 2013. The embodiment was also condemned by all the professions of care. It was condemned by the Swedish Municipalities and Land sting because it was ineffective and led to evasive effects, stick hunting and a very creative statistical performance in the county councils. The government has therefore changed its policy. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, the situation was that the queues had started to increase radically. The health care personnel were the occupational group throughout Sweden that topped the sick leave statistics due to stress. The purpose of the embodiment was to pressure an already stressed health care professional to run faster to hunt sticks. At the same time, the needs in Sweden for healthcare are increasing exponentially. We have a life expectancy in Sweden that increases by three and a half hours every day, and the number of 80-plusers will only increase. Then we have to change the care, because of course we will be able to meet everyone's needs, not least the very oldest ones. That is why we removed the queue billions and began to extend the training places to nurse, nurse, specialist nurse and midwife, which had not been done during the previous alliance government. Instead, sticks were hunted, simply. These new employees are on their way to health care. I think, Erik Andersson, that it's very important for you to know that until 2026 – it's both about the generational change among health care and welfare employees and about meeting the increasing need from the perspective that the population is growing and getting older – it's about 500,000 new employees in welfare in Sweden. The landing, regardless of their colour, is working hard to cope with the issue of skills supply, which is the main reason why the queues in specialist care and not least for surgery are increasing. If there are no surgical nurses, it does not matter what queue billions you have, because then it is still empty inside operating rooms. There is the government's focus when we have redesigned the policy to create long-term stability in the Swedish health care system.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-29	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree that it is the staff who are the key to shortening care queues. But then it is also quite interesting with the map that I have here. The Minister of Social Affairs can receive it as a gift from me then so that she can recall what it looked like before and after. In the alliance-led or moderate-led county councils the queues are shorter than in the Social Democratic-led county councils. The Minister of Social Affairs is Minister of Social Affairs across Sweden. It is then quite interesting that you see that difference. I may think that the effort to further train nurses to specialist nurses, for example, has come far too late. I know that the Stockholm County Council has just such an initiative. It encourages and is involved in funding the further training of nurses who want to become specialist nurses. That's great. But I have to say one thing, and I'm not just saying that because I represent the Moderates. In a country where all hands are needed in healthcare and where everyone who wants to be able to work extra is many who refuse to work extra. Many of the specialist nurses have to pay government tax. It is a waste of resources, Mr President. It would be much better if these specialist nurses felt that they could work and also get an income from it. Maintaining staff is, of course, an important part. Politics is, of course, the most employer when it comes to public health care. If we compare sickness rates between private operators and public operators, we can see that it looks a little better in the private sector when it comes to sickness rates. This is also an interesting question to consider. Policies as employers need to be much better at seeing and hearing the staff available. Of course, it is important to have primary care that works, which can, for example, catch up with citizens who do not feel they have to go to the emergency room. It is partly an organisational problem. It's a structural problem. Many of the measures proposed by the Minister for Social Affairs are good, but this is still what it looks like now in Sweden, regardless of the excuses that exist regarding the increase in care queues. It looked better before. Now it looks worse. And in the alliance-led county councils it looks much better than in the S-controlled. I find that interesting.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-34	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I note that Erik Andersson chooses to simplify this debate in a rather populist way. I recognize the rhetoric. You're supposed to have it because it's about what color it's on the handlebars in the county councils. Then I think it is extremely important to inform Erik Andersson of something. One can look at the overall increase in queues to specialist care in Sweden during this term of office. There is a county council that accounts for about 30 percent of that increase, and it is the Västra Götaland region. Who are they controlled by, Erik Andersson? Yes, by the Moderates and the Alliance Colleagues. They thus account for almost a third of the total increase in queues in Sweden. When it comes to Stockholm Health Care, Erik Andersson, who will serve about a quarter of Sweden's citizens and who are governed by the Moderates, I think you as well as I know that you have challenges to say the least. It's about the lines for surgery. Now they try to reduce queues by sending patients to S-controlled county councils, for it is urgent. The prosecutors have started a preliminary investigation, as people have died in care queues. We are currently sitting with a bill in the multi-billion-dollar class for a hospital that also has a national health care mission. It is Nya Karolinska, who will serve all of Sweden in several different areas. We do not yet know how the bill for this hospital ends. It's a hospital that's partly not working. I think it is presumptuous to beat the chest in terms of the governance of these county councils. Stockholm is also the county council in Sweden that should have the most easy to manage its skills supply. It is the most attractive part of Sweden to live in, and that is where there is the greatest access to well-trained staff. It is the county council in Sweden that has the youngest population, but nevertheless they have the most expensive health care per citizen. It is a waste of tax money without its like in Stockholm County Council right now. Therefore, I would be a little careful to use the rhetoric that the Moderates use and instead be a little humble before the summer that we face, well aware of what it looked like both in Västra Götaland and in Stockholm in childbirth care last summer. I know. So a little humility would be appropriate. When it comes to our county councils in the north, I am very humbled by the challenge they face with huge geographical distances, demographically speaking the oldest population in Sweden and the toughest recruitment situation. They are struggling with this. New, smart, innovative solutions are being tested to meet the needs of their citizens. To hit individual county councils in this way is, in fact, a bad rhetoric from us national politicians. We have contributed EUR 13 billion to meet the needs of healthcare, and we will continue to invest in healthcare. It's against your tax cuts.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-40	Mr President, I would like to I am merely trying to show that political governance matters. If it does not matter, we might as well ignore going to the polls on 9 September. The map I held up shows quite clearly what it looked like before and what it looked like after. The Minister for Social Affairs thinks I'm hitting individual county councils, but so is the Minister for Social Affairs. She always hits Stockholm. But when we look at Stockholm, we see a 94% guarantee in specialist care. In Västernorrland it is 60 per cent, and in Örebro 76 per cent. It is clear that Stockholm County Council has a better goal fulfilment than other county councils. That is the case, and the Minister of Social Affairs cannot take that away from us. When you look at Sweden as a whole, the county councils must be helped together. Of course, there can't be specialist care everywhere. But basic and basic care must be within the reach of the vast majority of citizens of this country, and of course it must be jointly financed. I think that's where we agree. I just want to show that political governance plays a role, and it looks better in the alliance-led county councils. Then, of course, there are parameters that may be a little worse. But I'm pretty sure they're working on that problem every day to make things better and better.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-43	Mr President, I would like to Just like they do in S-controlled county councils. We have a very fast ageing population in Sweden. We have a great generation of healthcare professionals. It is a problem that we must face with seriosity. Queues started to grow as early as 2013. Your queue billion was ineffective and also condemned both by the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and by the professions. During this term of office, we have expanded the training places. We have contributed 13 billion to the county councils during their term of office. We have made special investments in maternity care and are now reducing birth injuries. The number of midwives and nurses in maternity care is increasing. This will also increase both quality and accessibility. We will have to keep going forward. We have said at least 20 billion more during the next parliamentary term. This is against your tax cuts. To think that you can solve increased needs with less resources is not realistic, but it is about more hands, about increased resources and about seriously ensuring that those with the greatest needs are the ones who should get first to care. We are not going to have a stick hunt on the simpler cases, which were what we saw during your time, also with the result that the staff working in the healthcare sector were completely ripped out. I was recently in Västra Götaland and met the head of the emergency room at Sahlgrenska, which had just begun there. The years before he had worked as head of the emergency room at Östra Hospital in Gothenburg, and during his period the number of visits increased by 4 2 per cent. One must understand what the increase looks like and that we do not solve this with 3 queue billions, Erik Andersson. Thank you for a good debate!
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-47	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me why I am pointing out the elderly, when it is overseas immigration that is one of the main reasons for the overload of health care and what measures I intend to take to reduce this overload. Let me start by being clear: the elderly are not to be regarded as a burden on health care. However, the natural consequence of an ageing population is that care needs are increasing, which is also what is happening in Sweden. The need for health care is strongly influenced by demographic conditions. Life expectancy has increased dramatically over the last hundred years, and forecasts show a continued increase in life expectancy in the foreseeable future, which means that the group of older people will continue to grow. In its financial report of October 2017, Sweden's k ommuner and Landsting, SKL, states that the strong growth in the population of older and younger age groups is significantly faster than that of the number of people of working age. SKL points out that this increases the need for health care more than what is expected to be financed by increased employment and thus increased tax revenues. SKL further stresses that in order to meet this challenge, it is necessary to step up efforts to change and develop the business, including using new technologies and new ways of working. The Government shares SKL's assessment that various efforts need to be made to meet the demographic challenge and also makes a number of different initiatives. These include the extension of education and training to several important occupational groups, targeted investments in the provision of skills in healthcare, increased general state grants and efforts to support developments in, among other things, the digitisation of healthcare. In Sweden, we have the order that it is the county councils that are responsible for health care, and so it is they who must make the concrete efforts to meet the challenges that face us. I note, however, that this government is carrying out a number of different efforts to support that work.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-52	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll spread a false picture in Aftonbladet that it is the elderly in society who burden health care. She also lied about the fact that it is not the immigrants who are a strain. The new, strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden believes that it was immoral for the minister to point out the older population, even though they have paid taxes throughout their lives, continues to pay taxes and thus has contributed to society and paid for health care. Since the Minister of Social Affairs obviously finds it difficult to keep to the truth, I simply have to explain to the Minister what the situation is. We can look at what the social benefit distribution looks like in society, where 60% of social benefits go to foreign born, which indicates that immigrants take benefits instead of working. MSB's report shows that the mass migration wave of 2015 greatly overloaded health care. The report the Minister himself is going through from SKL points out that immigration is burdening sick care. Can be found on p. 23. Immigrants imported by this government and previous governments are those who drain the state's finances and thus make it impossible to invest in, for example, health care. This government, for example, invested 2.9 billion in giving mainly 9 000 adult Afghan men who have claimed to be children's residence permits. Swedish women are today forced to go all the way from Sollefteå to Örnsköldsvik to give birth to children after the Social Democrats have shut down BB in Sollefteå. For the cost of the asylum-frying Afghans, which you have given a residence permit, you could have started BB in Sollefteå 193 times over. There you have the so-called priorities of the multicultural and feminist government. They prefer to give priority to adult Afghan men who have lied about their age rather than to improve the situation of Swedish women in Sollefteå. Feminism is anti-female, and mass immigration is anti-Swedish. Mr President, I would like to Alternatives for Sweden is a party that in all situations will prioritise a functioning healthcare system for the Swedes. Through a massive return of system-burdening immigrants, the pressure on health care, among other things, will be reduced. By closing down the corrupt county councils and national health services, and thereby redistributing resources from politicians and political secretaries to the core business of healthcare, the opportunities for healthcare to become equal and accessible throughout Sweden increase. The employees who are working hard in healthcare today do a heroic job and should have a big thank you, but they also need politicians who give them the right conditions – and that is what Alternatives for Sweden want to give them.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-58	Mr President, I would like to I hardly know what to say, Jeff Ahl, but I will start by saying that we on the government's side are not in Parliament's chambers lying. SKL is clear about what is the underlying pressure on welfare services. There's nothing strange in any way. From 1985 until the mid-00s, the number of people aged over 64 in Sweden has been over 1.5 million, but during the latter part of this decade the number of older people is estimated to exceed 2 million. In the coming decades, it is estimated that 65 years and older will be over 3 million. Then, of course, one must realistically rig health care in order to meet the increased need for care. You can't pretend it doesn't exist. Then the policy will not be able to come up with any solutions to meet the care needs of the elderly multisick. I note that we are facing increased needs in healthcare and the fact that a large proportion of healthcare professionals will retire. Until 2026, approximately 500 000 new employees will need to be recruited for Swedish welfare. I am pleased that Jeff Ahl would like to extend warm thanks to the heroic health care provider. It's certainly in order. They do heroic work every day in a tough situation where needs are increasing, not least in the emergency wards. Somewhere between 25 and 30 per cent of the healthcare professionals in Sweden have different ethnic backgrounds, i.e. they are immigrants. If they had not worked in the Swedish health care system, the elderly would not have had their care needs met either. I met with all County Council Directors in Sweden about two weeks ago at a meeting where we talked about the challenges of the future. They see as one of their important strategies that the new arrivals to Sweden often bring with them a good education, not least those who come from Syria. Many bring health care skills, such as doctors, nurses and nurses. An important strategy is to ensure as soon as possible that they have the opportunity to translate their knowledge into Swedish healthcare and the Swedish labour market – to meet the needs of our ageing population in Sweden. They will, of course, receive good quality care and high class care. During this term of office, the government has put nearly 13 billion in the county councils to improve the situation. Some 3,000 more have been trained, and this year medical training is being expanded to meet needs. This isn't a lie. This is a fact. In connection with the arrival of many in 2015, it was obviously an initial burden on health care. But SKL also makes an assessment there that immigration over time neither helps nor spoils the possibility of financing welfare. It is a neutral zero-sum game, because immigration brings labour.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-66	Mr President, I would like to SKL goes through HDI – human development in the NDEx – which clearly points to the fact that non-European immigrants cost more than a percentage. There's nothing strange, and it's in the reports if the minister reads them. Politics is about putting groups against groups. Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll and the government have been clear about their priorities. If you were serious about investing in health care, the 2.9 billion you spent on Afghan asylum fraudsters would have gone to health care instead. It's obvious. If Alternatives for Sweden had been a government party, the 9,000 Afghans would never have been allowed to come to Sweden from the beginning. In addition, all their compatriots who have come here to live on bidrag had been allowed to go home. At that time, the 2.9 billion could have been used for healthcare and thus improve accessibility and equivalence across Sweden. Alternatives for Sweden want to nationalise all healthcare and close the county councils. Billions of savings on all unnecessary political spending in the form of political secretaries, professional politicians and unnecessary bureaucracy in a county council can then free up additional billions to invest in core business. I now want an answer from Annika Strandhäll, and I know that many Swedes want the same. Why, with the support of the Center Party, did the government choose to spend 2.9 billion on asylum fraudsters rather than on health care? The Minister of Social Affairs should reasonably owe all the women who are forced to bear their children along the way from Sollefteå to Örnsköldsvik an answer to the question: Why does the Minister of Social Affairs think that adult Afghan men who have come here to live the flea on Swedish tax funds are more important than Swedish women?
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-70	Mr President, I would like to I said in my previous report what the increased needs of health care are like. Jeff Ahl stated in his first post that I stood and lied, which I don't reasonably do. Anyone who reads about the challenges of health care can see this. The elderly, of course, are not a burden. If you get older, you have an increased need for care, and we will be able to meet that. During this term, the government has invested not 2.9 billion more in the Swedish county councils. Only this year we are making a commitment of 5.5 billion, which will primarily go to ensuring that there will be more colleagues in health care, that there will be more midwives in maternity care, that the working environment and working hours will be better so that it will be more attractive to work in health care – to meet the challenges I outlined in my previous post. Jeff Ahl talks about dependency in Sweden. It is behind this government's term of office at the lowest level ever – at least since the early 80s. At the moment, the highest employment rate in Sweden has ever been measured by Eurostat. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 12 years in Sweden. We have turned a government deficit of 60 billion into a surplus of 50 billion. The Minister of Finance has also made it clear that during the next term of office, the government will invest at least 20 billion more in Swedish welfare to meet the growing needs of Sweden's elderly people. Sweden is therefore in many ways in a very good position compared to many other countries. We shall have regulated immigration in Sweden; that is the line of Social Democracy. The people who come here should have the opportunity to quickly learn Swedish, quickly get into the labour market and become part of society, contribute through their work and pay taxes in order to also strengthen society that way. As our assessments look, we will do just fine. In addition, Sweden is a country that is not very large in terms of population, so for the foreseeable future we will have a very great need for labour in Sweden in both the private and public sectors. We should invest and focus on ensuring that people are given incentives to get the education they need and become productive citizens of society as soon as possible. That is where the government focuses, not on populist conspiracy theories or fictional figures, or for that matter in a rhetoric about violating other people because of their ethnic background. Jeff Ahl! It works about 30 percent with other ethnic backgrounds in Swedish health care, which every day takes care of our elderly and sick people in this country in a commendable way. You just said thank you to them.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-76	Mr President, I would like to If the Minister had listened to what I said, she would have understood that those who work, do the right thing and adapt themselves will of course be allowed to stay. But the welfare immigrants that you have mass imported are the ones that drain the state's finances. The minister says I'm making up a lot of numbers. After all, you yourself have put a budget in which you have spent 2.9 billion on 9 000 adult Afghan men while BB in Sollefteå is still out of use. The Minister does not answer the question for the simple reason that she knows that this government is not investing in the Swedish people. The billions that this government has contributed to, among other things, Swedish healthcare have been a panic attack due to the consequences of mass immigration. The enormous overload of benefit systems that immigrants account for is a clear indicator that they are not working. As far as employment is concerned, it is widely known that both this government and the former bourgeois government have created a lot of fake jobs and subsidised jobs to clean up the statistics. If we're going to get a balance in demography, it's a good idea if the maternity care works. But this government, like the former bourgeois government, does not want to invest in, for example, maternity care and thus improve the basic conditions for people to want to have children. It feels in some way like you want to scare people from having children by, for example, closing down BB in Sollefteå, which means that you have to go hugely far in order to be delivered. Today, there is only one party that stands for an organised return of all those who have come here to go on grants and do not want to adapt, and that is Alternatives for Sweden. The Social Democrats will continue to import welfare immigrants who are debilitating on society, while the Swedes are being cut down as when society.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-82	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl continues to pick his conspiracy theories from various different sides. In this debate, I have set out the figures for the coming years in terms of both the ageing population and the challenge of the supply of skills in welfare. I have also explained that we currently have the lowest use of our various grant systems in many decades. That, Jeff Ahl, is the fact that you just need to chew yourself up because it's the facts. Then you can have different views on the ones you call the 9,000 who are now getting a new trial. You can certainly have that. When it comes to maternity care, Jeff Ahl, this government has made historically great efforts on it. This year, we're shooting at 1.8 billion. As a result, we now see a sharp reduction in birth defects compared with our onset. We can also see that we have more midwives, which we can now count in the hundreds, and nurses who will strengthen childbirth. When it comes to the location of different BB departments and hospitals, it is something that is governed in Sweden by county councils, which are independent and decide entirely for themselves where to place the care. It is also extremely important if you are going to carry out BB operations that you have more than one birth per day. Otherwise the quality cannot be maintained. This government has now provided funds to build more patient hotels to increase security. We have also provided funds for and given an election promise that we will have more ambulances, both in the air and on the roads. But we must relate to reality; we must be realists. I'm not going to participate in Jeff Ahls's conspiracy theories. We have order in the Swedish economy. We will continue to make major efforts to meet the challenges we have in terms of welfare. I guess Jeff Ahl's gonna have to keep up his catch.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-89	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the conditions for municipalities to meet the requirements of the instruction law to provide housing for new arrivals and what regulatory simplifications I intend to implement in order to increase housing construction in Sweden. Initially, I would like to say that the state is primarily responsible for financial and legal conditions for the housing market. The municipalities have a housing supply responsibility and, through planning the housing supply, will create the conditions for everyone in the municipality to live in good housing. Active municipalities have a better starting position. The government has supported municipalities in several respects, for example through a state grant for increased housing construction. Since 2016, nearly 3.7 billion has been paid out to municipalities. For 2018, the appropriation has been increased, and just under 1.4 billion will be paid out. In order to increase the supply of less-rented rentals, the Government has introduced investment aid. This aid has already been granted for more than 10 000 homes. The report on shared housing responsibility, which I have recently received, proposes a new approach to ensure that the state and the municipalities take joint responsibility and a common understanding of what the housing shortage is and how it is to be solved. The report contains a proposal for a new housing security law. In addition, I would like to highlight the government's 22 point programme for increased housing construction, which contains a number of points on regulatory simplification and streamlining. Some examples of what has been done: The government has pushed through a number of regulatory simplifications, including greater opportunities for an expanded delegation from the municipal council to the municipal board and building committee. A deadline for the county administrative boards' decisions after review has been introduced, as well as an opportunity for the municipality to request a planning statement from the county administrative board. In addition, the framework for fixed-term building permits has been changed and simplified, as requested by municipalities. In addition, more measures have been exempted from building permits; further, it will hopefully be through the bill More building permits-free measures, which are now on Parliament's table. Recently Boverket's proposal for simplified control of series-produced houses was referred. The case is currently under preparation in the Government Office. The establishment of the Committee for Modernisation of Construction Rules is a thorough review of Boverket's building regulations. The Committee has submitted an interim report on standardisation, which is currently being consulted. The master plan investigation investigates how the master plan can be developed and facilitate subsequent planning. The interim report of the investigation has resulted in a proposal for a clearer and simpler detailed plan requirement. Another important issue in this context is the great potential of digitalisation to streamline the urban development process and thus contribute to more housing. The Government has allocated SEK 85 million in 2018 – 2020 for a unified digital application of the Plan and Construction Act as well as for a competence initiative. In addition, a proposal has been submitted to the Riksdag on standards for the design of basic maps, detailed plans and planning descriptions. Having said that, the Government is actively working to support the municipalities and to achieve regulatory simplifications and efficiency improvements that provide better conditions for increased housing construction.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-98	Mr President, I would like to Let me welcome the Minister for Housing back to the housing debate and to housing policy. In principle, he has taken timeout from it over the past six months, which is quite remarkable given that Sweden is now dealing with the worst housing crisis in several decades. We last received figures yesterday that show that we have a record race in housing construction in Sweden. It has decreased by 13 per cent compared to the first quarter of last year. It would have been a disaster if it had decreased by 1 per cent, because Sweden does not need a reduction in housing construction but a sharp increase in housing construction. The Minister has listed a number of measures. I use the word'measures with a certain degree of reservation', because what is at stake here are, above all, investigations and review missions. The 22-point list to which the government has referred in principle throughout the parliamentary term is actually about reviews. Mr President, I would like to It is also remarkable that despite the worst housing crisis in 50 years, no government in modern times has had so few proposals to increase construction in Sweden. It is not only unacceptable but untenable. I have two interpellations today. The first concerns the housing situation of municipalities in the light of the instructions that municipalities have to deal with. The second concerns regulatory simplifications. I would like to thank you for your reply and, at the same time, to note that the Minister's own party friends in municipalities and county councils say that the few proposals made by the government are not enough. This also applies in municipalities governed by the Minister's own party friends. This puts municipalities in an impossible situation. I note that every time the Minister for Housing has been forced more or less on the track, because he has taken the habit of staying away from all the housing debates that he can at all, he has blamed the housing crisis on the municipalities, on the banks or, most recently, on the builders. I think we need to realise that the government and parliament have a responsibility to act against the housing crisis.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-106	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green's picture of reality is a bit peculiar. If you compare this term of office with previous terms of office, it is a dramatic change. We have moved from a passive to a more active housing policy during this parliamentary term. We have also more than doubled the construction compared to the last parliamentary term. The housing shortage has not been created during this term of office, but it has been built up for a long time. In 2017, it was built most in the country in several decades. It looks like the construction is going down somewhat this year, but it will still be built considerably more than when the bourgeois ruled. The big change is an increase in housing construction during this term of office. We have invested more money, and we have initiated several changes, measures and regulatory simplifications. I'm a little concerned about the Moderate attitude. The tone is high, but there is very little content in the proposals from the opposition, especially from the Moderates. Mats Green is happy to talk about regulatory simplifications. I am prepared to listen to all the suggestions you have and to take a closer look at them. I have implemented a series of regulatory simplifications during this term of office, and I would like us to look at more. Moderate policies both in parliament and in many municipalities lead to reduced integration and fewer housing. We want to abolish the efforts we are making to increase investment aid and help the municipalities to get housing for everyone, including those who do not have large wallets, and to get the change needed in this situation, from to a large extent building apartments in, for example, the Stockholm area, where there has now been a huge supply and problem, to building more rental housing. But our efforts and the support for the municipalities that we have initiated are needed. We have also made changes recently that, for example, the City of Stockholm will use. I believe that many in the construction industry are concerned about moderate politics. If implemented in reality, it does not lead to more but less housing. Few believe that new regulatory simplifications, no matter how good they are, will be a quick fix to get new housing. I don't think so either. It is good to continue working with regulatory simplifications, but that it is a quick solution for more housing is an illusion.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-113	Mr President, I would like to Let us remember that the Alliance handed over an increase in housing. Peter Eriksson will hand over a reduced housing building. At the same time, of course, the housing deficit has not been created during this term of office or under the alliance government, but these difficulties on the Swedish housing market have existed for a long time. However, the Minister for Housing sits in the government and receives a salary for it and then has an obligation to act. When I meet builders and citizens, they mainly ask whether Sweden has any housing minister and housing policy at all, given the housing minister's total absence from the housing debate in the last six months. The Minister of Housing talks a lot about the investment grants, and the gods should know that there is much to say about them. In principle, everyone agrees that they are a total failure, to put it mildly. The government is therefore investing just over 11 billion in these building subsidies over three years. There is twice as much money spent on the judiciary in increased funding. What has happened to these just over 11 billion? Yes, less than 5% has been paid out, and nothing has gone to apartments in regions where the need is greatest, especially the Stockholm region. My numbers are a few weeks old, so it may be that some single apartment has been supported. The support the government is talking about has thus been condemned by everyone. The industry says you don't want it, and the municipalities say it doesn't work. When we look at the few apartments in Sweden that have received this support, we see that the money goes to those who already exist on the housing market and who also earn quite well. When the media ask Peter Eriksson questions about why less than 5 percent of the aid has been used, he refers to the construction companies and calls them fat, saturated cats. Yes, you can express yourself and think, but then the natural question arises: Why does Peter Eriksson want to give these fat, saturated cats more than 11 billion in tax money, especially when no one wants them? What we and housing policy need, Mr President, is a great common ground where we are not just looking at regulatory simplifications. I agree that regulatory simplification is not a miracle, but we need to look at everything: regulatory simplification, taxation, rental regulation – all over a broad palette. However, this requires that no party, nor my own party, the Moderates, should sit with a lot of sacred cows in housing policy, and that requires that we are all prepared to compromise. I note that we have a problem with the red-green double lock in the government. We have a social democrat who vetoes all structural changes in housing policy, and we have an environmental party that vetoes all forms of simplification. This, Mr President, is not a path to success – on the contrary.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-121	Mr President, I would like to I think the latest from Mats Green, that we would need a broad deal, is interesting and a good focus. Now it was the Moderates who dropped out of a broad deal two years ago, when we had discussions, but it was not Mats Green but his predecessor. If Mats Green now wants to start such discussions again, I think it is good and positive. The image that the Green Party is against all simplifications is not correct. I myself have pushed through a series of simplifications that make it easier for people and municipalities to get housing and decisions faster around Sweden. I am quite open to taking new initiatives in this area. A broad deal with financing issues and taxes at the heart of a new housing policy is important. With regard to the 22-point programme, the government has not talked about it throughout its term of office, because it has only been in existence for two years. It was when I took office, after the negotiations for a broad settlement broke and the bourgeoisie dropped out, that we in the government took the initiative for a comprehensive new housing policy in 22 points, which we have been implementing since then. In this, there is very little funding and taxes, and I see this as a key area in order to change housing policy in the future. If you are to solve the knots and locks that have existed and that Mats Green points out, you have to come in and have solutions also for financing and taxation in the future. This is a positive direction that Mats Green points out and which I am pleased about, because it gives hope that it is possible to find a good policy after the elections. However, the policy announced so far by Mats Green does not lead to much more housing, but I think it risks leading to fewer. Nor am I saying that investment aid is a solution to everything, but it is in any case a direction that is about us getting more rental housing at reasonable cost. That is what I think is the difficult thing for the bourgeoisie: how you can obtain rental housing, which is what is demanded and needed to a greater extent, at reasonable cost to ordinary people. There you have no answer today, but you are empty-handed. This is something you now have an opportunity to look at and give some kind of response to before the elections. Then maybe we can find a deal on that issue too after the election.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-128	Mr President, I would like to I'm so cocky, I'd say it's the Moderates and the Alliance who are the only ones who can deliver cheap rentals. We have a joint commitment to abolish the failed building subsidies that exist. The money is needed elsewhere, not to give billions of tax money to private companies, which, moreover, do not want it. In other areas of society, the same government representative usually puts this out as reprehensible, and I think it is directly counterproductive in the construction sector. This money needs to go to other things, especially perhaps a greater effort on the police. As far as the whole issue is concerned, I believe that we need to take a large, broad and joint political break with regard to housing policy. Both housing policy – this has been the case for a wide range of mandates – and the social debate is suffering. It is so large and complex that it is unable to discuss the whole basic problem, that is, the lack of housing, and that is why it breaks apart individual parts and only discusses them for some time. It is clear that politics suffers from this, so we need to take a joint lift. The reason why the Alliance did not see it as particularly meaningful to remain in the housing policy talks was, as I said earlier, that the government remained with all its sacred cows. They wanted to break off certain individual issues and only discuss them, such as the interest rebates. We are open to discussing these, but we are not just going to discuss them. We say that we must take a holistic approach to the whole of housing policy. We must also ensure that people are not punished. However, I can say that whether the Moderates are in government or not after the elections – I believe and hope we are doing – we will be involved in driving a broad, radical and thorough housing agreement.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-132	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation debate concluded, which I think is a positive one. It is important that we prepare for good talks where we take a holistic approach after the elections. I also think it is reasonable that, in the meantime, we should gradually tell the voters what our different positions mean before we get into that kind of negotiations. Another issue that I mentioned briefly during the previous shifts and which relates to the housing situation in the municipalities is that we have received an investigation that was completed quite recently and that points to a change in the Housing Supply Act and clarification of the different roles of the municipality, the county administrative board and the state. I think this may be an important ingredient, because today we are pointing to each other. Some municipalities take a big responsibility for the housing supply, while others take a smaller one and think it works that way. If we clarify the responsibilities of the different municipalities and create clearer opportunities for solving the different housing needs of the regions, I think that this could be a way forward and ensure that more people are involved in taking joint responsibility for the future.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-136	Mr President, I would like to These two interpellations are partly about the same things, but I will respond anyway. Mats Green has asked me what further proposals I intend to put forward in order for more measures to be freed from building permits in the future, whether I am prepared to take measures to facilitate the possibility of obtaining building permits faster and easier than today, and what regulatory simplifications I am prepared to propose to increase housing construction in Sweden. Initially, I would like to point out that the government has worked actively throughout its term of office to achieve simplifications and efficiency improvements that provide better conditions for increased housing construction, including within the framework of the government's 22-point programme. For example, it is more possible for an increased delegation from the municipal council to the municipal board and building board, a time limit for decisions by county boards after review, the possibility for municipalities to request a planning decision from the county board and increased possibilities for temporary building permits for housing, as has been requested by many municipalities. In the case of additional measures which may be exempted from the requirement for building permits, the Government has in the bill More measures exempt from building permits (prop. 2017/ 18:197) proposed relaxations in the obligation to make love to solar panels and solar collectors and announced that the government intends to return with proposals regarding patios in connection with one- and two-housing buildings. Furthermore, Boverket has recently submitted the report 2018:17 Lovbelösade measures, external changes and notification, which is the final report of the Government's mission to investigate, among other things, further exemptions from building permit requirements. The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-139	In answer to your question about what further regulatory simplification I am prepared to propose to increase housing construction in Sweden, I would like to highlight the proposals in the bill A clearer and simpler detailed plan requirements (prop. 2017/ 18:167). The Government has proposed clarifications on the requirements for a detailed plan in the Planning and Construction Act. The changes make it easier to assess when the detailed plan is required and when the detailed plan is not required. It also creates a space to move forward easier and faster. Having said that, the government is actively working to achieve regulatory simplifications and efficiency improvements that provide better conditions for increased housing construction.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-141	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer to my interpellation on regulatory simplification. I note that the regulatory simplifications that have been put forward by the Commission itself are, in fact, only marginal simplifications. We should remember that in the case of 90% of all the regulatory simplifications that have been pushed through during this parliamentary term, it is the Alliance in the Civil Committee that has pushed them through or pushed them through by pushing the government. An equal proportion of the regulatory simplifications are precisely the measures that the Green Party opposed throughout the time of the alliance government, when it chose to join forces with the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and the Social Democrats to stop this in the Swedish parliament. Then, three years later, they are taken up and implemented and called an active housing policy. They are therefore being implemented three years too late. I'm sorry about the government, but it doesn't really impress me. All the studies and proposals referred to by the Government are really only a matter of some revision of existing legislation. This is not enough, because the Swedish housing crisis is so profound and has been going on for so long that that time is over when you could handle this by just changing the margin. We must have the courage to give in to fundamentals. One of the things that the Moderates propose is, for example, to be able to strengthen the master plan legally and make the detailed plan voluntary in the municipalities. Together with our alliance colleagues, we have put forward a number of proposals for simplifications that are not marginal but would have a radical impact on a changed and simplified Swedish detailed planning and building permit process. I usually say that this government could have any simplification through Parliament tomorrow if they had only had one proposal. I think I can also speak on behalf of my alliance colleagues when I say that there is not a single simplification that we could not have thought of buying. But then there must be real and important regulatory simplifications that not only cut a few weeks from a total planning process of on average eight years, as it is now, from thought to having a finished house where you can stick the key in the door lock. We must therefore have radical regulatory simplifications. I note that the government has not delivered in any way. I also note that there is a great deal of discussion about the exemption with regard to building permits for solar panels. But you can't live in a solar panel. And, as I said, all the simplifications are good. But don't say that this facilitates housing construction in Sweden! It is good in other ways, but it does not really have much to do with housing construction. I would like to say once again: we need more proposals from the government for radical and radical regulatory simplifications to make it easier and cheaper to build and live in Sweden.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-148	Mr President, I would like to I don't think, Mats Green, that you should ralli over that we make it easy and easy to bring out solar panels, roof panels, patios or other practical little things. It can mean a lot to an individual. But there is also another aspect of this issue, namely whether a substantial amount of work can be done away with from the municipalities to give permission to a lot of small details where there is not really a need for extensive work. In this way, municipal officials can devote themselves to more important things, such as faster access to housing, drawing up detailed plans and ensuring that building permits are granted. That is what, to a large extent, is my aim in trying to get a number of less important issues off the table of officials. This is important for many municipalities. Many municipalities are under strain. They have a lot of work to do. They have many more housing and detailed plans to deal with than before. There is also a shortage of people in both municipalities and companies. It is one of the most important bottlenecks in municipalities and companies when it comes to building more, i.e. that we find it difficult to get people to a sufficient degree to cope with this. I do not think that this should be dealt with. But I think it was good that Mats Green came up with a single concrete question which he thought was important and structural in order to make a difference, namely to strengthen the master plan. If you get a stronger and clearer master plan you can sometimes even build directly from it and in many cases skip a step. It is a point in this 22-point programme that we are running. We have set up an investigation, and that investigation has even produced a first interim report that the Government has delivered to Parliament in the form of a bill that shows that we can have a clearer and simpler detailed plan requirements. It is a first step along that road. Then comes the next step, when the investigation will present how to strengthen the master plan work so that it will be easier to build based on it and have it as a starting point for the construction future. I think that's where we agree. But we have already taken the steps that Mats Green is calling for. Another issue that we need to be a little humble about is that during the time of the previous government some good decisions were made. One thing that was initiated was the attefallshus, which is now being talked about. There may not have been much happening in all matters during the time of the former Minister of Housing, but precisely the attefallshusen was an innovation. It became much easier to build small cottages on villas in order to produce homes, although small, that could hopefully work. It was hoped that this would lead to 200 000 new homes. There haven't been that many. It's been a few thousand. One problem was that these houses were a little too small. Now I'm doing a job to make these houses a little bigger. Then they will also be able to become more solid housing that you can use in the future. I hope that we will agree on such a focus that will actually make the attefallshusen something really serious in the future and that will help to reduce the housing shortage in Sweden.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-151	Mr President, I would like to It is still the case that the few proposals on simplifications that have come from the government are those that the Alliance has forced the government to make through announcements from the Swedish Parliament. Because these are not some of our own regulatory simplifications that have been initiated, but these are things that we have had to force. The Minister does not have to stand here arguing for regulatory simplifications before me; that is my line, as it were. We are for all forms of regulatory simplification, even less, but one should be honest and say that a minor simplification is a minor simplification of the rules. Solar panels are great, but don't tell me that it has a huge impact on housing policy. When it comes to the major, overall issues of fate in terms of regulatory simplification in Sweden, the government refuses to do anything. I could stand here and list all that the Moderates and the Alliance are running, but unfortunately speaking time is not enough. It is all about what was mentioned earlier about survey planning, but above all about that we should cut whole years from the Planning and Construction Act. It does not agree with an average period of eight years from thought to action in the area of residential construction. We need to agree that we should cut whole years from this, not just weeks. For example, we will also review the protection of the beach, where we need to turn around and make sure that we get more beachfront construction in Sweden. Sometimes when you hear the debate, you can think that we are exploiting ourselves, and I can say that it is probably not anyone who wants to. But we need more beachfront construction in the parts of Sweden – I live in one of them – that may be classified as sparsely populated. The only opportunity for those of us who do not live in big cities to compete with the range of big cities is to offer very attractive accommodation. So we need a properly relaxed beach shelter. We also need to review national interests. One alternative is to make housing construction a national interest. It is not a national interest today; perhaps the most fundamental need in life – housing, heating and shelter – is therefore not a national interest. Instead, there are a lot of other national interests, sometimes of course justified but also some far less justified. Either we make housing construction a national interest or we phase out a variety of other national interests. We also say that we need to get a good grip on noise, for example. Just regulate the indoor noise, not the outdoor noise! Also, do not distinguish between different types of noise, such as industrial noise and traffic noise. Noise like noise – that's the level of what matters. However, we have an environmental-partisan Minister for the Environment and an environmental-partisan Minister for Housing who is actually against all of this, and it is clear that it has huge consequences. It has consequences for big cities, because we are unable to condensate in the way we have to. It also has consequences for us in rural areas, because we cannot make our smaller towns grow because we begin to intrude on agricultural land, which is therefore a national interest that is then affected. We therefore need to do a proper regulatory simplification work. I wish we could agree that we should cut, for example, at least two years from the overall planning process. Then the simplification of the rules will begin to play a proper role. Certainly, the Minister has stood here and talked about some minor simplifications in the building permit process, Mr President, but let us remember that it is not the building permit process that takes time. Instead, it is the planning and detailed planning processes that take time. Here, however, the Environmental Party sits at the Ministry of the Environment and on the Housing Ministry side and stops everything. That is not the case, Mr President.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-159	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that Mats Green sometimes has a strange self-image and a picture of what reality looks like. None of the issues I have raised, such as strengthening the master plan and being able to build on it to a greater extent, clarifying the detailed plans, simplifying for municipalities to build faster and so on, have been forced by the Moderates, the Alliance, the bourgeois parties or the opposition. There is one issue that has been pushed forward, one might say, and that was what Mats Green was into at the end – the noise issue. The government initiated a change that facilitated construction even in areas where there is heavy noise, but the new homes would still have the possibility of a fairly quiet side. The opposition was not satisfied with this, but the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeois felt that it should be allowed to build even where there is noise from all sides to a large extent. This is a problematic issue, because it is a question of human health. It has turned out that even if it is quiet indoors, because you have strong glass windows and so on, it is a health and environmental problem for many people if you have noise from all sides. It was not with great warmth and joy that we made that change, but it is still the case that the Riksdag decides. If there is a clear majority in favour of making changes, although it is not always the very best and smartest changes that come back time and again, it is reasonable to make such a change. Now we will see what happens; it is not certain that the municipalities are using this opportunity to such an extent anyway. In general, however, we have pushed through a series of simplifications and improvements for the municipalities, and if we look at the statistics, we will probably see that we have cut years, as Mats Green says. There is a study that shows that in the past it took an average of seven or eight years to develop new homes, and today I am part of opening new homes where it has taken one or two years from the first planning, through the detailed planning process to construction and that the house is in place. It is a huge change that is happening around Sweden. Nor is it always a question of changing the regulatory framework. These could be entirely different things, such as the commitment of politicians and officials and the change in the industry. We are getting more and more housing that uses modern industrial methods and digitalisation. The government has also made major efforts to digitise the entire planning process. Both Boverket and Lantmäteriet work a lot on this, and I think it is the area that gives the greatest effect in the long term. If we can get a good and effective digitization of this whole area, which is standardised throughout Sweden and in all municipalities, it will have a huge effect. That is the aim of the work that is being done in the government today.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-164	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that, in fact, all the simplifications proposed by the government during its term of office have been forced by the Alliance. The entire outline investigation is actually the result of alliance announcements in the Riksdag. It is one thing to say that you are pursuing an active housing policy and quite another to really do so. We have a problem when the party in the government that has been given responsibility for building more housing than ever in Sweden is the biggest opponents of virtually any form of simplification. Again, the simplifications that have been carried out are largely also things that have been combined with the Swedish Democrats in previous mandates to stop. There is also a horizontal problem with regard to the Green Party and the view it has. I respect it even if I see the consequences of it, i.e. that everything outside the big cities should somehow be a large Skansen museum. The Minister for the Environment in particular represents the image that everything should be like a large Skansen museum that should only exist. You just don't realize that people actually have to be able to live, build and live in the countryside. That is really the overall problem and the great ideological difference in the view of the good society and Sweden. Again: It is not that this government has cut a few years from the planning process. Instead, it is explicitly said that it does not want to do so. This is not really about any abbreviations at all. As I said, I would have liked us to agree to say that we should cut, for example, two years from the planning process in Sweden, and so we will see what forms of simplification it requires. That is where we have to start, because that is when regulatory simplification will really play a role in the construction of all types of housing throughout Sweden.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-168	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have to say that last one is nonsense. There's no decision or way of saying, "Now we're cutting two or three more years. There is no rule in the law book or in the Planning and Construction Act where it says it has to take three or four years. Nor is it today, but it usually goes much faster than that. If, instead, we get to grips with these issues and make concrete proposals, I and the government are prepared to discuss them in full. We are not against regulatory simplification at all. We want it to be simple, smooth and easy for municipalities, people and construction companies to build in Sweden. I work on this all the time. However, doing what the Moderates want is more problematic. If we abolish all efforts to bring housing to ordinary people in Sweden and once again believe that the market will solve this by itself, we will end up in the same situation as the bourgeois government did last time, during the two terms of office that it worked on. Housing production would then go down to the level we had before, and that would be a disaster. We are building today, this year and during this parliamentary term more than twice as much as you did before, and we do not want to go back there. Don't make the same mistake as your predecessors, Mats Green! That would be very unfortunate, and I therefore think it is important that we talk about these issues in the electoral movement.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-172	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me if I share the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment that only 2 out of 16 environmental targets will be reached by 2020 and what additional measures I intend to take to achieve all environmental objectives, including the generational target. I share Jens Holm's view that further measures are needed to meet environmental objectives. The government wants to speed up implementation work, and measures must be taken in all relevant policy areas in order to achieve environmental objectives. The Government therefore proposed several major investments in the 2018 budget bill, including strengthening the Climate Cell, introducing a bonus – malus system for new light vehicles, extending the super-environmental car premium and the electric bus premium, a commitment to reduce the problems of plastics in the oceans and nature, and a comprehensive effort on the marine and aquatic environment for cleaner seas. The Government recently submitted a letter to the Riksdag with a climate strategy for Sweden. The strategy's starting point is that the climate issue must be integrated into all sectors of society. In the strategy, the Government presents, among other things, an action plan for fossil-free transport and electrification. Work on sustainable urban development is important in order to achieve environmental objectives. The government recently submitted a letter with a strategy for living cities to the Riksdag. These are some examples of the government's efforts to achieve environmental objectives. During the spring, the Government will submit a letter of results to the Riksdag on the environmental objectives system and how the work to achieve the environmental objectives has developed during the parliamentary term. Several steps have been taken along the way, and new initiatives and instruments are in place. At the same time, further measures are needed to change society and meet its objectives. Work on environmental objectives will continue. The new intermediate objectives that have already been decided are of great importance and highlight important priorities for future action. During its term of office, eight new milestones have been adopted, one of which means that an earlier milestone has received a later target year. Most of these target years are later than 2020. Further milestones will be developed, including on the basis of proposals expected from authorities and investigations. In the process of developing new milestones, the milestones of the global goals of Agenda 2030 will be a starting point. Environmental objectives are an important part of the national implementation of Agenda 2030. The environmental objectives themselves and the experience gained from decades of environmental work provide impetus and a head start in implementing the environmental dimension of Agenda 2030. An important tool for achieving the objectives and implementing the necessary social transition is the continued integration of climate and environment into policy areas where the driving forces and solutions to the problems lie. It often takes a long time from taking action to measuring the environmental impact. Therefore, it is not yet possible to see the full impact of government policies and will have on nature and climate. The annual monitoring of environmental objectives by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is an important basis for the Government's report to the Riksdag. The Government returns with assessments, analysis and conclusions about the work to achieve the environmental objectives in the budget proposal for 2019.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-182	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation on how to achieve all our 16 environmental objectives, including the so-called generational target. These are very important issues. A few months ago, a research report from Germany showed that biodiversity had collapsed by about 70% in the natural areas examined. It was found that this is probably also representative of other parts of Europe. Yesterday I had the privilege of talking to representatives of Sweden's beekeepers. They say what we can see with our own eyes: that the number of so-called pollinators – i.e. bees, bumble bees, wasps and others – has decreased drastically in Sweden. Without pollinators, there will be much less food and much less diversity in our nature, Much needs to be done, as is also stated in the follow-up from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to which I refer in mi n interpellation. Only 2 of the 16 environmental quality objectives will be achieved with current measures and instruments. Much more needs to be done. I think that many of the things mentioned by the Minister for the Environment are good, and we support the strong efforts made in the budget in the field of environment and climate change. But that is not enough. I am a little worried when the Minister refers to new investigations and new letters to be presented. That is not the real workshop in this context. I fully understand that a new government needs to set up investigations and present letters or assessments of the situation, but what we need now is strong legislation and higher funding for what saves biodiversity. Not least, what the Minister himself mentions is that all sectors of society and all policy areas must work to achieve our environmental objectives. I would like to ask the Minister: how is work on environmental issues in forestry, for example? Does the Minister of the Environment think it would be a good idea for the Forest Protection Act to be incorporated or linked more clearly to the Environmental Code? We have not seen any concrete proposals from this government in this area. What does the Minister of the Environment think about the Minerals Act? Mining is perhaps the greatest impact we can have on the environment and on biodiversity. There, I do not think anything has happened during this time. I would like to recall what Stefan Löfven said in the 2014 Government Declaration. Our Prime Minister said the following: The national environmental objectives will be met. There is no question of all environmental objectives being met, and then we need to speed up the pace, Karolina Skog.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-192	Mr President, I would like to I'm very happy that Jens Holm started with focus on pollinators. I share the view that it is an area that needs much more attention than it has received so far. For Sweden, we do not have such a thorough investigation as the one that has been carried out in Germany. But I have had the opportunity to meet Sweden's leading researchers in the field and asked about their assessment of whether we can conclude that it is probably a similar situation in Sweden. Unfortunately, their answer is yes. In any case, there is nothing against the fact that the situation of insects in Sweden is as bad as it has been established that it is in Germany, because we have made similar changes in our landscape as the ones they have done in Germany. The lack of variation in the landscape is a key factor. To get better information about what work is being done today in Sweden to strengthen pollinators, I have asked for a survey of this from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and they note that there is quite a lot of work being done in the farming landscape. There is a great deal of commitment from farmers and non-profit associations. There are a lot of very interesting investments in agriculture. There is, however, very little, almost nothing, in the forest. It's an information we need to take on. Sunday's World Bee Day. I will certainly draw attention to it, and I hope that many more will want to do so and to disseminate information on the importance of pollinators. It is an issue in which we, as individuals, can actually contribute with little effort. But it is obviously important that we also draw political conclusions from the serious situation in the future. As far as achieving so few of our environmental objectives is concerned, I would like to summarise the situation by saying that it has historically been done too little and too slowly. That is why it has been an extremely urgent task for this parliamentary term to speed up, to do more, to have broad environmental work and to take clear steps in all areas to achieve all environmental objectives, and this has indeed happened. Together with the Left Party we have really increased the tempo and addressed a number of really difficult questions. But at the same time, there is no alexander. The environmental objectives are long-term and are pursued in an urgent and gradual manner. One thing we are focusing on now is to set new milestones for post-2020 work. Jens Holm asked about forestry. Among other things, we have announced a new milestone for forest protection. Right now, the forecast is that if the current level of money remains, this target will be achieved, but we will set a new target after 2020. As far as minerals are concerned, I cannot agree at all with Jens Holm that nothing has happened. The Swedish Parliament took the other day the step to stick through a ban on uranium mining in Sweden – an important step. It certainly does not solve the whole problem, but I think it was a joyous day and that we have every reason to be proud and happy about the decision. This is a very clear message to several areas where there has been a threat of uranium mining for many years. Now they know that they can develop their countryside in a different direction. I will come back to how we have integrated environmental work into other sectors, which was the third issue.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-200	Mr President, I would like to To begin with the issue of mining, we in the Left Party very much welcome the ban on uranium mining. My colleague Birger Lahti, who is sitting here, was very active in this debate. We as a party proposed a ban back in 1981. I think we were actually the first in Sweden to propose such a ban. It's a great decision. But what I was more concerned with was the legislative part of the whole, namely the mineral law that regulates mineral mining in Sweden, i.e.: How to strengthen environmental considerations within the framework of the mineral law? I had hoped that this government, during its four years in power, would have developed a new mineral law linked to the environmental code. It hasn't happened. The same is true of forestry law and forestry policy. The Minister himself says that environmental considerations really need to be strengthened here, and I agree with that. Protection is one thing – it is very important – but forestry itself is another thing. I believe that much more needs to be done there. Sunday's World Biday. It's amazing! I read in Dagens Nyheter today about all the fantastic activities that will be organized for our pollinators. Tuesday is the International Biodiversity Day. It's great to have campaign days like this. But all those who are out campaigning want us politicians to take our responsibility, and then, as I said, much more needs to be done. It would be very good if the Minister for the Environment could look at how environmental objectives can be achieved in all policy areas, because there are a number of challenges. I am thinking of the fact that we have environmentally harmful subsidies of SEK 50 to 60 billion, i.e. money that actually goes to depleting biodiversity, which leads to an increase in emissions. How do we ensure that our pension money is placed in a sustainable way? How do we get infrastructure planning that is subject to climate change targets, so that we do not build new motorways? I am very concerned, for example, about the extremely expensive and unnecessary motorway project Bypass Stockholm, which unfortunately the government has not stopped. I am also thinking of aviation emissions. We in the Left Party welcome the airline tax, but much more needs to be done. I debated with the Minister's colleague, Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg, a few weeks ago about Arlanda's expansion. It seems that the government welcomes the fact that Arlanda has targeted 70 million passengers. There will be a huge increase in flying and associated emissions. Yes, there are a lot of concrete issues where I lack action from the government or where I think the government is even doing the wrong things. What is not least the elephant in the room is our consumption here in Sweden that has an impact in China and India, often in poor countries outside our borders. Then let me remind you of the objective which is above all 16 environmental objectives, namely what is called the generational objective. It is about all the major environmental problems being solved within a generation and that we should not create new environmental and health-related problems beyond our borders. How does the government work with the generational goal?
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-208	Mr President, I would like to I will say a few words about how we work to integrate environmental objectives into the work of the government and our authorities. We have taken several important steps to establish such a work. One such step is the Environment Council, which is broadened and has clearly renewed its work. They're working very actively. The Environmental Targets Council is a collaboration between a number of selected authorities that have a particular impact on the ability to achieve our environmental objectives. The new thing in their work is that they have the task of primarily using the Authority as the resource it is to act and identify measures that they can take to achieve environmental objectives, individually or in cooperation with other authorities, and to report this annually to the Government. And the reports show that the authorities are really active. Then, if they identify measures that need to be taken, they can propose changes to the government. But first of all, they're supposed to act. It is a very important signal for the steering, because just as Jens Holm says, we will not primarily investigate but act. And we've changed the control in these parts. The second part may appear to be administrative only, but it is important. It is a question of changing regional growth efforts. Within it there are huge funds; infrastructure and regional development funds from the EU are managed within what is called regional growth work. All regions now have the task of integrating environmental objectives into that work, so that the large funds available are used to achieve the environmental objectives. And it is, as Jens Holm says, at least as important that they are not used to work in the wrong direction. That kind of screwing is important to the future. It is about structural changes and using the power of development work that takes place at different levels to achieve the goals and get in the right direction. As far as the forest is concerned, my colleague, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, has just presented a new direction for forestry policy in Sweden – perhaps the presentation is still ongoing. It will be clear that we agree that a developed bioeconomy should be developed at the same time as environmental objectives should be achieved. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about environmentally harmful subsidies and consumption issues. I share Jens Holm's view that there are important issues to be tackled in the future. If we look at history, we can see that there has been fear, perhaps even cowardice, in the policy on these issues. I know that Jens Holm and I jointly stand for a policy that tackles those kind of difficult issues. An environmentally harmful subsidy against which the government acts is the travel allowance. It is there to create good access to a rural labour market. But in practice it is a subsidy for car travel in the big cities. We now have an investigation in progress to correct that, so that we can get back the original purpose of the travel allowance. It's going to have a big impact. We will have to continue working on additional subsidies. It's just a step. On the issue of consumption, we have also taken several important steps. Basic work needed to be done to monitor statistics and measurement methods for the environmental impact of consumption. There, the Central Statistical Office has done important things for us. It is really an innovation, a big step forward, that in the 2018 budget we not only present forecasts for growth but broaden the concept of growth so that we also get a better understanding of the impact on the environment and social sustainability.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-217	Mr President, I would like to Some things are happening, and that's very good. Unfortunately, that is not enough. I am thinking, for example, of what the Minister started with, the new structural change that will ensure that all policy areas are moving in the same direction. That's good. What I miss is what should weigh most of the different interests when they stand against each other. When Arlanda's expansion stands against the fact that we actually have to fly less, the government seems to think that Arlanda's expansion is more important. When it is quite clear that we cannot build new motorways but need to build bicycle infrastructure and invest in public transport, and so on, the government still continues to build new motorways. It is when interests are against each other that one really wants something sharp that means that it is the long-term environmental considerations that weigh the most. I know that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is presenting a new forestry programme today. But it's not a new forestry team. It is legislation, the sharp things, that I am looking for so that environmental considerations are given much higher status. It's great that the government has taken care of the travel allowance. But why set up an investigation now? Why didn't they start at once, at the beginning of their term of office? Then we would have stood here with a new, good travel allowance now. I am frustrated that there is too much investigation and that there is too little action. Once again, Stefan Löfven said in the 2014 Government Declaration that national environmental objectives should be met. It's supposed to be government policy. Then we need more action, not more investigations.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-224	Mr President, I would like to I can understand the frustration of investigations. However, there is no other way to obtain a new and better-functioning travel deduction than to have an investigation develop the new regulatory framework. That is the order we have in Sweden. And in comparison with other countries, I would like to say that it is a good order that ensures the quality of the regulatory changes we make before they are implemented, rather than changing afterwards. The Prime Minister's words in the Government Declaration that environmental objectives are to be achieved are incredibly important and were said with the utmost seriousness. They have also clearly influenced the work of this government for four years in power. Looking at the budget, one can see that no budget area other than environmental policy has grown to the same extent. If you look at the proportion, you can see that we have increased the environmental budget more than any other area. It may not be noticeable, as other areas are likely to be given more space in the debate. But that's actually what the numbers show. We have also tackled the most difficult issue of environmental policy, transport, as I believe. We have carried out a series of very important and fundamental reforms in the field of transport. We have attacked the sacred cow – the private car – in a way that no other government has done. Bonus – malus will take effect on 1 July, the reduction obligation will take effect and we will review the travel allowance. We have also launched an urban development strategy that clearly takes a stand in order to create opportunities in cities for sustainable travel – walking, cycling and public transport – at the expense of the car. It is an environmental policy conflict that previous governments have shot, out of fear. But this government has shown its ability to act. And I'm very proud of that.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-228	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what further measures I intend to take to ensure that Sweden achieves the objective of good ecological status in the Baltic Sea by 2021 in accordance with our commitments in Helcom. I agree that the situation in the Baltic Sea is acute and that more needs to be done. It is also worrying that climate change can lead to aggravation of the problems, including serious consequences for fish stocks in the Baltic Sea. There is a history of too high inputs of nutrients into the Baltic Sea for a very long time. The discharge of unclean sewage to water has been going on up to the 70s in Sweden and until recently from large cities such as St. Petersburg and Kaliningrad. The self-cleaning of nutrients in the landscape has also been drastically reduced because wetlands and lakes have been drained and drained to a large extent for more than 100 years. Overall, we have an environmental debt that will require extensive, long-term and patient work to address. Moreover, this work has been neglected far too long. It is in this perspective that the government spends over SEK 600 million a year on a clean sea for the period 2018–2020 with a package of measures against eutrophication, environmental toxins and litter and on the protection of several marine areas. The Government has entrusted the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management with several tasks to facilitate action against eutrophication and bring about measures where they are most useful. The government has also significantly increased the budget for financing local water management projects, LOVA, and the conditions have changed so that more types of measures can now be supported and so that it becomes more attractive to apply for these funds. In the Government's investment in a clean sea, a wetland investment of SEK 200 million per year in 2018 – 2020 will help to increase self-cleaning in the landscape and reduce the supply of nutrients to the sea. As Jens Holm mentions, the rural programme is one of several important tools for reducing the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. The Government therefore intends, now that the review of the next programming period begins, to work towards a much more effective rural development programme and to contribute to the strategic and measurable achievement of environmental objectives. Jens Holm also mentions that protection of more marine areas is needed. This is a priority for the government. Therefore, the Government has identified several Natura 2000 sites to protect, among other things, the porpoises in the Baltic Sea and is also making major investments in the budget for enhanced marine site protection. In addition, we have commissioned the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to identify, among other things, measures aimed at achieving conservation objectives in marine protected areas with a focus on fishing. In order to reduce eutrophication in the longer term, the Government has set up a study to provide suggestions on how the driving forces for local action can be strengthened. The study will also propose instruments that lead to increased use of locally adapted, cost-effective measures. In order to achieve good environmental status in the Baltic Sea, all nine coastal countries need to contribute to the Baltic Sea. There, the cooperation within Helcom is an important platform. The Government also intends to take an active role in the development of the new Baltic Sea Protection Action Plan to be developed at Helcom, and the Government will work to ensure that it maintains a high level of ambition. Overall, this means that the conditions for local, regional and cross-border action against eutrophication are significantly strengthened. This will not mean that the Baltic Sea will reach good ecological status by 2021, but it is the start of a work that will have a long-term impact and will also be a profitable investment.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. This is an example of what we talked about earlier, that a number of our 16 environmental objectives that are not achieved are directly linked to the situation in the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is perhaps the world's most polluted inland sea. Everyone knows about the dead bottoms and algal blooms that will soon, unfortunately, spread out, perhaps more than ever. New records have been broken every year. Within Helcom – the Baltic Sea cooperation that the Minister refers to, where all are Baltic Sea countries are involved – none of the nine Baltic Sea countries are in line with the objectives that have been set. Although Sweden is better than most others, we will not reach the goals of good ecological status by 2021 either. There's a lot to do here. The main solutions are probably in agriculture and fisheries policy. If I start with agriculture, I welcome the fact that the Minister for the Environment says that Sweden should work towards a better and more appropriate rural programme. The rural development programme is, after all, the green part of the EU's agricultural policy. I would like to ask the Minister: as negotiations are now under way at EU level on a new agricultural policy – will the Swedish Government work for the removal of all so-called direct payments and for everything within the agricultural policy to be within the rural programme and for environmental payments, not just for increased production? It would be interesting to find out. The extra SEK 600 million that has been set aside is very welcome and something that we in the Left Party of course support. Just a few days ago, I read a debate article by the LRF and the World Wildlife Fund. They say that it is difficult to get this money when it comes to farmers wanting to build wetlands. Wetlands are nature's sewage treatment plant, you might say. There phosphorus, nitrogen and other emissions can be purified. But the system is far too complicated. Hundreds of farmers don't get their money. I wonder if the government has any strategy to ensure that the money really goes where it is going, so that our farmers can do good environmental work. As far as fishing is concerned, there is a great deal to be done. For example, we in the Left want to ban bottom trawling. I wonder if the government has any suggestions in this area. If you have a marine reserve, it should be a reserve, i.e. protection where there is no large-scale fishing. We also believe that marine protection needs to be increased, and there we seem to agree with the government. As in the previous debate, I see that there is a great deal left to do, so I would like to hear more from the Minister about what is going on.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-249	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the opportunity to discuss the important Baltic Sea issues in this House! I wanted to start by commenting on the work on wetlands. This is one thing that we from the government have identified as important from several points of view. One aspect is that it is an important measure to improve the status of the Baltic Sea and to address water issues on land. For a long time, large areas in Sweden have been drained, and soil's ability to conserve water has decreased. It creates a sensitivity to drought, which we have experienced during several summers, and too much rain. Wetland is no solution to that. M a wetlands are good for catching up nutrients, and that is the background to making a strong wetland effort. We are investing more money, but we have also changed so that more people can apply for this support than before. Support can be sought for more types of measures, and we have introduced a higher share of an investment in a wetland now than in the past. We have also taken steps to lower the thresholds. Like Jens Holm, I have taken note of the debate article which points out that it is still administratively complicated. Of course we'll look at it. If there is even more that we can do to lower the thresholds, we will certainly do so. I've read the article carefully and I'm analyzing it. The next issue raised by Jens Holm concerns fishing and the link with marine protected areas. There, the government has done several things. Above all, we have increased the amount of marine protected areas. It is important to remember that when deciding on a protected area, the first step is a very long process. One must, among other things, decide on how to regulate fishing. As fishing is an EU competence, it is necessary to negotiate with all the countries that have the right to fish in that area. It'll take a very long time. Now we have regulated an area and found a model for how it will be done in the future. In order to go further and develop the Swedish position on these issues, we have given two important assignments to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. The first task is to analyse how different fishing methods affect the aquatic environment and fish stocks, including an analysis of the effects of bottom trawling. It will be an important basis for future policy decisions. The second assignment is an investigation work in which the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority will propose areas where a regulation can be made to get areas completely without human influence. It is our view that it would be important to establish such areas, not least for the sake of fishing and cod. The aquatic animals are then given areas where they may grow and be left alone without interference from boat traffic or fishing. We have identified this as an important measure in the future, so that is why we have ordered such a basis. When we rule in the next parliamentary term, we can make that kind of decision. I share the view that fisheries issues are extremely central. The fact that we have a knowledge-based and science-based fisheries policy in the future is crucial for the future of the Baltic Sea.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-260	Madam President, I would like It is excellent that the government wants to make it easier to get wetland support. I note that Denmark has employed so-called wetland administrators, that is to say officials who help with the paperwork so that it will be as easy as possible for farmers to get the money. Maybe that'd be an idea. I also had a specific question about the negotiations on the EU's agricultural policy. We in the Left Party believe that Sweden should not really have any direct support. All aid should instead be more or less environmentally related. Then you can get even higher support if, for example, you run agriculture far out in rural areas where the economic conditions are a bit worse. Is this something the government is running? I was thinking about something more about agriculture. An easy way to increase environmental performance in agriculture is to stimulate organic farming. Yesterday I attended a seminar at Organic Sweden, which is an industry organisation to stimulate organic farming in Sweden. They want there to be a target for 50% of arable land to be certified organically by 2030. That is a good objective, I think, on which we should be able to agree. I know that there are appropriations in the budget that can be made available for organic farming, which is a good thing. But the funding needs to be higher. One way of financing it would simply be for the conventional to take greater environmental responsibility through a tax on fertilizers. There can also be a tax on pesticides, which can be more appropriate. Then we get income that can go to organic production. How does the Minister feel about that? As far as fisheries are concerned, it is good that the government is negotiating with other countries. I understand that this is perhaps mainly about Denmark and Germany – perhaps Denmark in particular. It is about stopping bottom trawling and better protection against industrial fishing. Could the Minister be more specific about this? What areas are you negotiating on? How's it going? Sweden will have the chairmanship of what is called Baltfish from 1 July this year. Baltfish is a cooperation body for the Baltic Sea, where fisheries issues are pursued regionally. There are all the possibilities for Sweden to pursue the issue of more sustainable fishing, bans on harmful fishing methods such as bottom trawling, that we should take out reasonable quotas so that we do not fish out the fish that exists and so on. What is Sweden's strategy for its Presidency in Baltfish? Do you intend to inform us in Parliament about this? I haven't heard anything about it.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-266	Madam President, I would like I have signed up for the debate because I think this is indeed a very important issue. However, I do not have a perspective in the debate on how to influence the development of the status of the Baltic Sea, and this concerns shipping. I would like to mention some examples that I think are essential and important in this context. We have, among other things, the issue of emissions from shipping. First of all, I would like to say that shipping is absolutely fantastic for transporting goods, for example. But all modes of transport have their challenges, and so also the fantastic opportunity of shipping. What I want to talk about and make a contribution to the Government is how shipping can be even better at what it does. But I also want to address the challenges that exist. One such challenge is the emissions from shipping. There's a lot of work going on. This work is international and is therefore important in itself. Another thing is how our waterways are constructed. There is a very sensitive environment. It can also bear to think about how our national fairways, those we can afford ourselves, are set. How are they designed? Where are they? And where will any new fairways be built? These are also important issues. Then there is what is about ballast water, that is, what is in the idea of a large ship, and how to handle it. Even alien organisms are part of this. We must try to have a clear environmental focus. Helcom has two different committees dealing with the issues I have mentioned. There is ongoing work on an initial strategy in 2018, which is interesting. This will lead to a final strategy. My question to the Government is: What position will Sweden have with regard to the issues I mention? What will we address specifically? I would also like to highlight the dilemma of emissions and the risks of accidents associated with shipping. How can we be better at preventing this? I believe that a few hundred accidents also render emissions. We know, for example, that the oil spills are very damaging to the environment. I note that the Marine Environment Institute in its report 2017:2 addresses the consequences of an accident and describes that the impact can be very large depending on how the routes are drawn. How does the government work on this issue? There are, of course, opportunities to divert traffic if areas are seen as sensitive. You can work very actively in those areas where you can afford the fairways. I also wonder what environmental focus is in the marine plan that is being developed and to be implemented by 2021. I am, as I said, interested to hear from the Government what measures you are working on in the various areas if you look at shipping. I am fully aware that much of this is also about international work. This applies not least to emissions, particulate matter and much more, and the IMO has important work to do there. Yet there are opportunities to take action locally. For example, there could be stronger environmental management of fairway charges and the use of economic instruments to reward those who want to go ahead. For the Baltic, these are incredibly important issues. This also applies to the management of waste from cruise and passenger ships, etc. I would like to hear how the Government and the Government think about this.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-279	Madam President, I would like I will try to quickly and easily answer the questions from both Jens Holm and Nina Lundström. I will start with agricultural policy. Work on a new agricultural policy in the EU after 2020 is ongoing. The government's view is that agricultural policy needs to have a higher level of ambition and more focus on results in terms of resource efficiency and environmental objectives. The follow-up needs to move from detailed management to focusing on whether or not the objectives of the actions are achieved. This is our focus in the negotiations. There is a pressure in Sweden on organic farming. Consumers are calling for the ecological, which is extremely pleasing. In the food strategy, we have set a target for public sector consumption of organically. This has also led to pressure on the conversion payments available to farmers wishing to change. We have therefore had to raise it, which has been a pleasant task to do. We have raised it to meet the need, and our ambition is that no farmer should have to wait for it. For those who wish to change, there should be adequate compensation. That's the target. So far we have made an increase. Let me go to sea. I'm very happy that we can talk about it as well. It is, of course, extremely important. This is partly because it is so strategically important in the overall transport policy and the transition to a more efficient climate sector, and partly because it has a clear local and global environmental impact. There are many encouraging developments here. It depends on several things. As regards the impact on shipping, the regional work of Helcom in several parts is successful, reducing emissions. Emissions are reduced both in terms of the discharges from shipping through regulation and not least by the fact that the sulphur directive has had a fantastic impact. This means that the type of emissions that affect our health have been reduced very much. The second part is that shipping has raised its own level of ambition. The industry today is really willing to take on a great deal of environmental responsibility. We believe from the government that liquid gas will be an important fuel in the future to leave the ful oil and move to a sustainable alternative. This applies not least to liquid biogas. Therefore, I have made a new strategic effort precisely to make liquid biogas available for shipping. It is a call made by the Swedish Energy Agency very soon. I would also like to address the issues of fairways and how routes are handled within what is called water planning. We have on land a spatial planning with outline plans and detailed plans. This has not existed for the sea, but we are now developing it. It is simply a huge effort where you look at all parts, such as fairways, routes, wind power, fishing and environmental considerations. Here it is very important that we have a foundation with properly protected areas. This is where you can make that kind of balance, with information about where the bottoms and wildlife are more vulnerable and whether you can influence, for example, decisions on routes. This is the tool that we will have in the future in order to be able to balance the sustainability agenda. It will be a very important tool in the future to get the most out of maritime transport but reduce its environmental impact.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-287	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with what Nina Lundström from the Liberals said about shipping. This is obviously a very important influence factor in the Baltic Sea. There is also a lot to do. I believe that regulations such as the sulphur directive, on which the Minister was concerned, are indeed the way forward. We need more of those things. I also think it is good to move from heavy oil to gas. It would be great if you could run the boats on biogas. Perhaps they can also be electrified in the future. I had a specific question for the Minister about our Presidency of the Baltfish Cooperation Agency. The Minister is happy to tell you about this, but it is probably from 1 July that we are chairing this Baltic Sea cooperation for fisheries policy. Then we should have every opportunity to promote more sustainable fishing in the Baltic Sea. It would also be interesting to know more specifically what negotiations we have with other countries on, for example, banning bottom trawling or otherwise making fishing more sustainable. Objectives for organic consumption in the public sector as well as for organic production are good. I think that the government could raise the objective of organic production in line with what I said, that about half of it should be organic in ten to twelve years' time. That is a perfectly reasonable objective. These are some examples of things that need to be done in order for us to save the Baltic Sea. It's a very urgent matter. More political action is needed.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-291	Madam President, I would like I welcome the joint commitment to the Baltic Sea. It is one of the world's busiest seas that we have here in our vicinity. What I would still like to do is to give a hand– I feel that I did not get an answer from the Government to the question – is how to use economic instruments to achieve what we all think are the solutions of the future. It could be new fuels. It can also apply to electrification, as Jens Holm mentioned. How do we ensure that we direct our instruments so that they reward those who take precedence? I note, among other things, the issue of fairway charges. One task I have recently received is that it is only about 7% of the fee itself that has this kind of environmental premium. I think that the approach to economic instruments should be that they should really aim to ensure that those who go ahead with wise choices and smart solutions also receive an economic premium for it. I would like to hear how the Government sees the possibility of developing these fees. Then I know very well that fairway charges are only a small part of the economic burden on shipping. It's the same with port charges. There are many actors there. But it is a question of trying to look at how we can ensure that we reward that we act properly. Then there's a lot more to do. The legislation we have and the regulations we have mean that it is still the case that not everyone emptys their thoughts in the ports, which should certainly be done. It's about toilet waste and much more. I believe that the trend will be to get rid of this type of environmental problem. But we still have air issues and the issue of incentives to do the right things. I would be very grateful to have answers to that, too.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-295	Madam President, I would like A great deal of excitement is happening in the field of shipping. It is difficult to make it all in a short speech. Electrification is definitely a thing that's happening now. The ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör are an example of this. From the government's side, we have decided that the government should take the lead in this area as well and set an example. We have given assignments and funds to the authorities that govern the shipping that takes place under state control to ensure the electrification of those parts. It is about road ferries, but it is also about Coast Guard ships, where the authority has begun to look at both electrification and the use of new fuels such as methanol and ethanol on its own initiative. As far as fairway charges are concerned, we have instructed the responsible authority to follow the environmental management of these charges. If such a follow-up shows that they do not have sufficient environmental management, you should of course propose changes, because it is obvious that they should have it. We'll use every tool we have available. In addition to participating in Helcom, we in Sweden are extremely active in a number of regional bodies that affect the Baltic Sea. That's how the sulphur directive came out. We're still active. Our general position is that regional regulation of air pollution is the way forward. For example, there is a very active work on the issues of soot and particles. It looks at the possibility of regulating it, too, through regional legislation similar to the sulphur directive. I see that there can be more of that kind of regulation in the future.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-298	Madam President, I would like Nina Lundström has asked me three questions relating to traffic regulations that affect cyclists. It is gratifying that Nina Lundström shares my view and the Government's view that it is very important to improve road safety and accessibility for cyclists. In 2017, the Government presented a national cycling strategy, which aims to promote increased and safe cycling. It is important that the regulatory framework is clear and the traffic environment safe for vulnerable road users such as cyclists. Unprotected road users are also a priority in achieving the zero vision. Therefore, the government has specifically investigated how the regulatory framework can be adapted to achieve increased and safe cycling. The Ministry of Industry's memorandum Cycling rules were published at the same time as the presentation of the national cycling strategy and have since been out for consultation. The memorandum contains a number of proposals for regulatory changes that will make it easier for cyclists and other road users to travel safely in the same traffic environment. The memorandum is currently being prepared within the Government Office, and my ambition is that we continue to work on the modernisation of the regulatory framework. There is currently no preparation basis for making proposals for the introduction of new distance regulation. The issue is therefore not being prepared at the moment, but I am not ruling out the need for us to take a closer look at this when we follow up on the cycle strategy.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-303	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. The reason for the interpellation is that there is simply a need for better traffic rules for cyclists. I think there has been far too little progress in this area. I understand, of course, that the proposals are being prepared. However, in some areas it should be possible to move forward more quickly. It's amazing to see how many bikes. For example, when you come to Parliament you see a lot of cyclists out there. Cycling is not just transport and public health, it is also a question of freedom. It's nice to ride a bike. Wise days might even be happy to keep pedaling on your bike and not sit so much at meetings. It's amazing to see what a boost it is on cycling. But it also means that the more cyclists there are, the greater the challenges we face. One way is to deal with issues and not just money for new infrastructure. There are measures that do not cost money. It is about regulations that exist for cycling. I have therefore asked the questions about traffic rules. I have also asked cyclists what is their strongest argument for, for example, the rule of keeping a minimum distance if you as a motorist overtake a cyclist. The cyclists say this: It's about saving lives. I want to live. Clarity. Increase perceived security so that more bikes. Increase the predictability of traffic. A clear signal from the legislator. legal certainty; Better cycling experience. More people can use existing traffic systems. The question of being able to travel safely even for a cyclist who is unprotected is an incredibly important issue. It also characterizes the feeling of being out on your bike. What I do not understand, Madam President, is why the question cannot be prepared. I note that the Government answers that the question is not prepared. Why not produce a basis for decision-making and a basis for implementing the rule? The rule exists in many different countries. Australia has just made an assessment of the rule that they introduced. It was noted that after ten months the accident statistics had decreased by 15 per cent, and it is felt that there has been a successful change in the rules. Today's traffic rules are not adapted for the cyclists who are out there today. Many also cycle on roads where there are fairly high speeds. It makes me very perplexing that the answer says that there is no preparation basis. I note that the Transport Committee in its report on cycling flags because it expects the government to take action. That was also the reason why the proposals were rejected at that time. The conclusion is that the government will come back with proposals given that there is a memorandum that has been out for consultation. It believes that the government has the opportunity to take further action. Madam President, I would like My questions to the Government are: Why does the government not want to take an initiative here? Why not prepare a preparation document? Why not make sure that we jointly implement it? I am absolutely convinced that there is very strong support for this. It would be quite simple to implement in principle. It could also be combined with an information campaign and could quickly make a difference out there. Nor is it about money financing or waiting for the national plan. This could be done very quickly. I'm eagerly waiting for an answer.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for your commitment! I also find the bike boom we experience pleasing. I ride a lot myself. I also see that there are more people out on the road now. This is particularly true thanks to the e-bike premium. It has made people who previously took the car to work now choose to ride a bike. They use the little extra power from the battery to not come out completely sweaty to work and still be able to get through. It takes less space and is climate smart. It is clear that it is revolutionising the traffic environment with the consequential effects that it will have in terms of the fact that we now need to increase the altitude of, for example, cycling routes and the opportunities for cycling to emerge in national planes. I'm glad to hear that. I note that Nina Lundström mentioned that too little had happened. However, we must remember that, unlike the time when the Liberals were in government for eight years when they did almost nothing in the field of cycling, we now have a national cycling strategy. We have a national cycling centre in Linköping where you gather research, development and competence efforts. We have carried out several investigative assignments and changes that strengthen cycling. The e-bike premium is also a good example of this. We will now have a follow-up meeting on the cycle strategy on 13 June. There is my ambition to invite Cykelsverige to listen to comments such as the rules that need to be changed in the future. Some of them are at the low stage of preparation in the Government Office. The most famous proposals are the possibility for cyclists over 15 years of age to also be able to ride on a street in public traffic. It's something we've opened up to. However, we shall ensure that the issue is properly prepared with the views that exist. When it comes to questions relating to rules of 1.5 metres and regulation, let us remember that it is a regulation today. The traffic regulation looks like this: A driver can drive if only if it can be done without danger. The driver driving over shall leave a safe lateral distance between his vehicle and the vehicle being re-run. It can be difficult to say how far a safe distance when crossing a bicycle can be. Some vehicles can pass with less distance while, for example, the passage of children as bicycles requires greater distance. It is therefore up to the person who makes a re-run to determine which distance is appropriate for each situation. However, those who pass a bicycle should in particular ensure good safety margins, as the risk of cycling can be very high. I can see that, in relation to many other countries, we have few bicycle accidents that are collisions with vehicles. Eighty percent of bicycle accidents are single accidents. There is also reason to think about the cycling environment we see in the future. It's about how bike paths are designed perhaps in several files because you have different speeds. It is a different but also exciting traffic environment we see before us. This means that we have to listen to many different points of view when drawing up rules. As Nina Lundström mentioned, the 1.5 meter rule has been taken up in the Riksdag. It is not that Parliament has supported the proposal. The Parliament has rejected a motion on the introduction of a 1.5-metre rule. Only the Liberals and Christian Democrats have supported that motion. It is also a signal that the Riksdag is now not prepared to take a position on a 1.5-metre rule. I will try the opportunity to see what processing options are available to look at the conditions for introducing a 1.5-metre rule. However, I would also like to wait and listen to the comments that will be made when we have the large assembly on 13 June to follow up the cycle strategy. It is during this term that cycling takes off. Let us welcome this and hope that there is a broad consensus on continuing to strengthen cycling. But let us also be careful with what rules we propose. It is not always clear that the police's ability to pay attention to a 1.5 meter rule is the right priority for, for example, the traffic police.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-329	Madam President, I would like I will read out what the committee said when it dealt with the proposal in my motion for a regulation of 1.5 metres. The committee would like to stress that it is important to follow the question of whether there is a need for changes to the regulatory framework or other measures to reduce the risks of overtaking vulnerable road users. The committee then writes that it wants to await the preparation of the memorandum by the government. The committee also writes about this memorandum and states what the government has written in it. The committee says that the conclusion drawn in the memo is that it is therefore up to the person who makes a re-run to determine which distance is appropriate for each situation. ..................................................... This is where I mean we have different opinions. Those of us who can be both motorists and cyclists can recognize us in it. You have a perspective if you sit on the bike on a road and have a car that overtakes you, and perhaps also risks overtaking even if you get a meeting, and can almost feel the rear-view mirror rubbed by the elbow. When you sit in the car you may not even think that the person you drive over feels it that way, and especially if you don't bike yourself. I note once again that the rule has been introduced in many countries. I have tested it myself on a bicycle trip in Spain, both as a motorist and as a cyclist. It worked just fine. But if you introduce the rule, you should of course also inform about it. An information campaign is needed in the first phase. I believe that this is not a complicated rule to introduce, but it is more about actually doing so. I can agree that every government can work more with cycling. I always think you should. However, I also note that the previous alliance government implemented a number of regulatory changes to improve traffic rules. It is therefore quite possible to do so. I get a little perplexed about why it takes so long to come up with something in the preparation of the memo that the government sent out. Now it has been a year and we have still not seen any consequence of the regulatory framework. I think it would certainly be a good thing not only to review the 1.5-metre rule but also many other bicycle rules. In practice, this would make the system much clearer, and everyone would know what applies out there in traffic. A cyclist contacted me and told me that this is precisely the case and that it is important to understand which rules apply. This can be a way to use the space available on the roads much smarter and to take into account each other. I find it difficult to understand the resistance to testing the regulations. I would like to advise the Government that there are many good people out there who work with cycling to everyday life both in municipalities and in other places. They have a high level of competence in how this could be implemented. Why not try the question on these people, who are knowledgeable in this and who are also traffic planners? One could make sure to test the idea and say: How could one do it? We should move away from saying no to asking ourselves how we could do it. I think the solution is close at hand, and it would be exciting if we could do this. Madam President, I would like I would just like to ask one question: has the Government taken note of the evaluation carried out in Australia, which looked at the question from the police perspective, from the perspective of the cyclist and from the motorist's perspective? The statistics had also been looked at. There is much to learn from this. Has the Government taken note of this report?
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-339	Madam President, I would like I note that what Nina Lundström is asking is what we are doing. The reason for inviting us to a follow-up meeting on the cycle strategy on 13 June is that we want to listen to all the comments. I have been careful about this in all policy areas ever since I took office. I have invited the ports of the country to engage in dialogue, and I have spoken with maritime operators and with all other transport operators. In the same way, I want to work process-oriented when it comes to cycling. This means that this will be an excellent opportunity, because then we have the final report from all the reports that exist and the missions that were given when the cycle strategy was launched by my predecessor. The cycling centre is in place, and the entire SKL's major information efforts will be reported. The 9 million we have distributed in funds to support bicycle development in the country will also be able to be accounted for. In this way we get a comprehensive picture but also a single forum to test what is the next step. Of course, we will then also report on the work on rule-pm and the discussions that have taken place. I have noted in my dialogue with many representatives in Cykelsverige that the 1.5 meter rule can withstand some further thought. It should work both in urban and rural areas, and it should be able to work for all types of road users. I am a cyclist myself, and I know what it feels like to go on a narrow highway when a truck blows by. I think, of course, that in these contexts a 1.5-metre rule is extremely justified. But I am also a cyclist who rides in a dense urban environment and on smaller roads, and then I know that a 1.5-metre rule is not as easy to apply – especially for law enforcement authorities. Otherwise, I like the idea of being clear about the motives and symbolism of the messages you give, and I generally strive for clear rules. A good example is the mobile phone ban that we have now pushed through, where we say: Hands on the steering wheel– you should not have handheld mobile phone when driving vehicles! This has a strong impact because it is so clear and easy to comply with for the police but also for road users. You know what's going on. In the same way, I am seeking that kind of clarity in terms of rules in the area of cycling. Let's work together to see what's the smartest way! I hope that Nina Lundström will also join the follow-up cycle meeting on 13 June. Then we will have room to discuss this together and process-oriented, and we will listen to everyone's views.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-345	Madam President, I would like If there is to be any change in the regulatory framework, the government must act, because it is only the government that can afford to ensure that we get the new traffic rules. Now the issues have been discussed for so long, it has been referred back and there have been so many points of view that I am absolutely convinced that it is perfectly possible to go to a decision on a new rule for overtaking and minimum distance. But it is also about many other rules that many really long for. It'll be a little bit of an element 22. The Government refers to the Committee and the Riksdag, and the majority of the Committee and the government parties refer to the Government and Government. So you can hold on and ball each other whose responsibility is. I read out what was said in the report that the committee is waiting for the government to come back with proposals based on the referral and also with further proposals. I think it would be important now to really consider how to ensure that the rules are put in place. That would be extraordinary, and I will personally do everything I can to influence this issue. I note that the Government did not answer the question of evaluating the regulatory framework implemented in Australia, which made an evaluation from the police perspective, from the perspective of the cyclist and from the motorist's perspective. The Government may not have taken note of the report, but I have printed it out and have it with me here in the speaker's chair. After the debate, I will present the Australian report to the Government to enable him to see what the 1.5-metre rule is. I don't think you have to complicate things so much. It is clear that you can sign the roads and point out where to start with the signs. The local environment can also be taken into account. Knowledge exists, and I think that is the least concern about applying the acquis. I hope the rules will soon be in place.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Nina Lundström, for the commitment! I share that, and I am pleased that there is broad support for the major efforts we make during this parliamentary term to promote cycling. Let me hope that this is also something that obliges us in the event of the accident and we have another government in the next parliamentary term, so that we do not let the development of cycling stop. It is necessary for the sake of the climate, for the sake of public health and not least for the space in our cities. We can agree on this. I am careful that we should have a preparation that follows the regulatory procedures we have. We will listen to all the consultation bodies, and we will not least allow the police to give clear views on how they can use their resources in the most efficient way in order to have a good and safe traffic environment. That must be the starting point. In this context, let me remind you that how we build cycle infrastructure is perhaps a much more important issue in this respect. It is about ensuring that we can get more separated bike paths and more opportunities for cyclists to travel safely even where you do not drive together with other traffic. We must bear in mind together that there are worrying numbers of single accidents when it comes to cycling. Now that we have an increased number of electric cyclists – which we are all delighted about – we should be aware of whether this in itself can lead to behavioural changes. These are vehicles that, in general, may run at higher speeds than is customary for exercise bikes. There may also be some unaccustomed cyclists who come out on our roads. Here we must ensure not only that you have a helmet – because that is obviously something that all cyclists should have – but also that we get behaviour in traffic that means that we do not have more accidents, be it single or collision accidents. Let's work on this together for the good of cycling!
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-357	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti has asked me about the level of government involvement in the Haparanda banana which I consider reasonable to expect. Passenger traffic on the route between Luleå and Haparanda has been discontinued since September 2000. Renovation of the track and a new route via Kalix was completed in 2014. I am aware that there is a desire to reorganise persontr afik on the Haparanda track. According to the Public Transport Act, municipalities and county councils in each county are responsible for public transport within the county. The railway between Luleå and Haparanda extends only within Norrbotten County. The transport system will contribute to growth and development throughout the country. On routes that are commercially unprofitable and where there is reason to maintain basic accessibility with inter-regional public transport, the State is therefore able to procure such services. Funds for this procured traffic are provided by the State on the allocation for traffic contracts, which means that the Finnish Transport Administration pays compensation from this grant to carriers for interregional public passenger transport by air, train, boat or bus. The total amount of traffic agreements during 2018 is SEK 930 million. It is important that people have good accessibility with interregional public transport throughout the country, and the Council believes that it is of the utmost importance that there is good accessibility, not least in northern Sweden. However, it is the Finnish Transport Agency that has the government's mandate to enter into and be responsible for the state's agreements on interregional public passenger transport within the framework of the transport policy objectives and the defined financial framework. Thus, it is the Swedish Transport Administration that should state whether there are reasons and the possibility for the state to engage in traffic involving a county. For the government, it is important that the whole of Sweden is given good opportunities to grow and develop. In this context, I would like to mention that the Council has recently submitted a proposal to the European Commission to extend the EU's transport corridor Scandinavia – the Mediterranean Sea along the Bothnian corridor, from Stockholm along the Norrland coast and up to Haparanda and Narvik.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-362	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. This makes me happy in some parts, in some parts surprised and in some parts disappointed. I'll start with what surprises me. In fact, I did not know that the EU transport corridor is staying in the southern part of the country. But when I think about it, it may not be surprising anyway because we had a previous government that said that the basic industry was de facto phased out. We in Norrland are only 11 – 12 per cent of the population but account for 25 per cent of net exports. In addition, it can be added that the manufacturing industry in southern Sweden – Volvo, Scania, SKF and Sandvik – uses Norrland's minerals in their exports, so the effect is even greater. Among the parts I am pleased about are the fact that the government has taken up the issue of extending the corridor and is trying to awaken it in the European Commission. That makes me happy, because then I hope I have understood it right that there are opportunities for European funding for infrastructure investments in areas which are not just passenger transport but also the transport of the basic industry and for co-financing for such investments, such as the Bothnian Arc and up to Narvik. That's interesting. So in the part that I'm a little disappointed about. I mentioned in my question that after calculations made on this route Luleå – Haparanda it has been concluded that about half of the travellers would be cross-border. Then the question of the role of the state comes in a little bit because this transport is not only within Norrbotten County. The county administrative board and the municipalities in the region have agreed that they have funding for operations, but there are parts where they think the state should go in. In June 2016, the Regional Public Transport Agency in Norrbotten sent a question to the then Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson, but there has been no answer or reaction to that question. I find this a little distressing and a pity, because what is being raised here is co-financing because it feels that the route will lead to cross-border passenger transport. I miss that part in the Minister's answer.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for your commitment! I really do share it. I have spoken to the municipal councillor of Haparanda and also the former municipal councillor on a regular basis, and I have been to the region on a number of occasions. It is no secret that in recent years we have also looked at the conditions for investment in infrastructure in northern Sweden, not least in view of what Birger Lahti himself points out that it is here that large parts of our export values are produced. Norrland is growing both in terms of export value and production and in terms of population. This will place increased demands on the infrastructure in the future. The industry is certainly not fundamentally gone, as Fredrik Reinfeldt said, but it is on strong growth thanks to a successful industrial policy. I'm happy about that. It is perhaps also worth mentioning today that it is not just about land transport. We have worked intensively from the government after the bankruptcy of Nexchet to ensure good air connections. It is important to have good communication opportunities in Norrland. It is also one of the reasons why we are opening up the T E N - T corridor. I must say that I myself find it remarkable that we have only allowed infrastructure projects in southern Sweden to seek EU co-financing through the Core Network Corridor. That is why it is gratifying that we have now taken a government decision and submitted an application, which I hope and believe will be granted by the Commission, to extend the core network corridor right up to Haparanda and indeed, if we are to be careful, to Oslo so that the whole of Sweden can participate in the common funds that we have in the European Union to strengthen the interconnection within the European Union and to strengthen the infrastructure. Then, of course, within the framework of the resources available to strengthen traffic regionally, this will have to be handled by the Swedish Transport Administration. I have not noted that there has been a formal request to the government to be answered. I noted that Birger Lahti mentioned that there was no answer, and that is something I do not know about. Of course I'll have to look into it. On the other hand, it is clear that the state has taken a great deal of responsibility, not least with regard to the Haparanda track. There have been large state-funded investments already in previous years. As recently as this year, I know that an upgrading of the ERTMS system will be carried out to ensure that there is the right type of digitisation for the vehicles that exist, because this is an important transport route, not least for the basic industry. If there are also conditions for developing passenger transport, it is of course also pleasing. But it will of course be tested and prioritised against all other efforts to be made both in Norrland and Norrbotten but also nationally. There are over SEK 900 million available to the Finnish Transport Administration to participate in such trade-offs together with the region. I am full of hope that we will continue to develop the infrastructure in northern Sweden, because it is needed. We fully agree on that. I know that the commitment is in both the municipalities and the region, and the new opening of EU co-financing also raises new hopes of being able to make more investments in infrastructure and traffic in northern Sweden.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers so far, Minister for Infrastructure. However, I still lack answers on the cross-border passenger traffic that this would mean. The question of State co-financing of the operating part will then, of course, arise. I would like to touch on the issue of freight transport a little more. In our neighbouring western country, there is a clear strategy that says that by 2030 Norway will have five times its production of sea food. Over 1 million tonnes will then be produced in the three northernmost counties, which means five train sets per day transporting fish products from Narvik. It raises the question of how we can benefit from this and how these flows will go. The same applies to mining in my municipality of residence. It is a bit difficult to defend truck transport of iron ore concentrate in 2018, so they could benefit from this. I am pleased with the application to the Commission, because it will be important. When it comes to what Finland and Sweden have done, so-called dream trains were driven last year, but unfortunately it did not work so well because Finland does not have the signalling system, as the Minister mentioned. This apparently made them stand on the road. But the departures were fully booked, and Finland is interested. Both departments and operators, Rautatiet Rautatiet, as they are called, have shown great interest in these joint ventures. I understand the answer you give: that it is the Finnish Transport Agency that tries when it comes to passenger traffic within the county. But what I am talking about is how to find solutions and look at how we can make the best of a joint passenger transport between Sweden and Finland and what benefits it would bring. I lacked some of this in the Minister's reply.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti. It is absolutely true: I did not have time for that in my previous reply. But I am the first to speed up relations between Sweden and Finland. I will honestly say that we have had a very good dialogue with Finland, not least with my colleague, Minister of Transport Anne Berner, to see just how we can strengthen cooperation. This applies not least to the Botanical Corridor. There is also increased cooperation with Finland on other issues, including in the field of defence. The second time I was up in Norrland I was actually out riding icebreakers, and it is also an area where we have a close and close collaboration. It is, of course, a national matter and not a regional issue. If we did not have workable icebreaker operations, it would hit the entire Swedish exports because it is an important base industry that produces magnetites and other things, which are going out through Luleå harbour. In the national plan that the government will present, the Finnish Transport Agency – everyone knows – contains several important projects in northern Sweden, which the government now has to consider to see how we can strengthen the capacity for transport in northern Sweden. I can therefore welcome, or reassure, Birger Lahti on this point and say that I am keen that we should strengthen communications between Sweden and Finland in many different ways. This is also one of the reasons why we are opening up the EU co-financing facility provided by the TEN-T corridor. This means that not only are we Swedish taxpayers involved in paying for Swedish infrastructure, but we also take a larger share of what we pay to the EU. In general, we may not have been very successful there. Many other countries in the EU have been successful in taking advantage of the funds that the EU jointly manages for infrastructure, for example, and here in Sweden we need to be even better at restoring resources. What would be better than doing this to speed up the Scanmed corridor by 2030 and in this way ensure that we can have good transport, not least in northern Sweden? Again – the commitment is there. But I can't, and I know that Birger Lahti has respect for, as Minister go in and talk about how the Swedish Transport Administration should handle the funds available. Then I'm sure I'll be notified to the KU or something else, and I'd like to avoid that. On the other hand, I think the government is very clear about the importance of investments throughout the country – no one can misunderstand that. I am proud to belong to a government that has visited all of Sweden's municipalities during this term of office. I don't think that's happened before. There is not a municipality that has not been visited by a minister. I was recently up and met Skellefteå Municipality. The councillor there told us that during this term he might have been visited by eight ten ministers – a strong commitment from the government. During the former government, as far as he could recall, there was not a single visit by the government. So it is clear that we are showing a strong commitment throughout Sweden, whether it is about Haparanda and Haparandabanan's development or Malmporten, Malmbanan and the increased transport needs we see; it may be about salmon, magnetites or other things that need to travel, preferably track tied. It is better for the climate and provides better good capacity and greater predictability in the vast majority of cases.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Then I can understand your answer, but I hope, of course, that the Minister will say that the Government hopes that the Finnish Transport Administration will try the possibility. Then I'll come one step closer. What is interesting in this is that Norrtåg and Rautatiet Rautatiet have together found solutions to get past the border barriers by changing trains in Haparanda. However, this requires investment in the bridge referred to and electrification on the Finnish side. This requires the submission of an EU application together with Finland. There is talk of a CEF call coming in April 2019. Until then, you should have an application in place. This is interesting because, with a very small part of the funding, there could also be freight transport with a transhipment station in Haparanda. With this investment, these flows could be put in place. I hope that we will have a government where both our parties may be involved and that we can make an application. It must be in place in April 2019, as I understand it. For a relatively small amount of investment, these investments could then be made. For Sweden, it is about half a bridge, maybe 75 million. The Finns must have their share electrified. Then we'll have a transshipment station in Haparanda and passenger transport. It would be cool to get this in place! Thank you for a good debate and for the answers I have received. I hope that progress is made.
i-d8bd6a0a28f54c55-393	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for a good debate and for the commitment! I share it and think that this is important. I also sincerely hope that, even after the elections, we can have a government that sees the importance of making investments on the infrastructure side also in northern Sweden. Unfortunately, we have seen earlier after a change of government how the then-coming bourgeois government chose to remove the Norrbotnia Line from the national plans. I think that was a mistake. I think it is important that we develop rail traffic throughout the country. This is important both for our growth, for our competitiveness and for the increased population, not least in northern Sweden, and, as I said, for the sake of the climate. Train transport is so incredibly much more efficient than truck transport in that sense. I'm glad we share the commitment. We must work together to ensure that there are also good infrastructure opportunities in northern Sweden. It comes from the heart, from a small-timer.
