i-33300fa956e5098f-4	Madam President, I would like At least parts of the Committee on Defence have gathered in this House today to debate the national strategy for society's information and cyber security that has been developed by the government. The strategy is of course a side flow of the national security strategy that the government chose to present at the Rikskonferens Folk och Försvar 2017 in Sälen. The national security strategy has not been the subject of any position or discussion in Parliament. This time too, Parliament does not define the strategy, but we intend to add it to the documents. The strategy addresses everything from our main government agencies to regions, county councils, municipalities, companies and even individual citizens. That is perhaps why this strategy is quite abstract and general. It actually allows itself to be summed up in a number of brief points. The aim is to ensure a systematic and coherent approach to information and cyber security. It is about increasing the security of networks, products and systems. It is about strengthening the ability to prevent, detect and manage cyber attacks and other cyber incidents. It is about increasing the possibility of preventing and combating cybercrime, increasing knowledge and promoting skills development, and strengthening international cooperation. When you look at the points in the strategy, you understand that the government feels the need to update the strategy soon and hopefully make it more concrete and thus more practical for those who are supposed to apply it. As early as 2018, i.e. this year, the government says there will be a review of the strategy. Yesterday, the Swedish Transport Agency presented its own investigation into what Prime Minister Löfven called the accident in the summer. The investigation has shown that from the beginning of 2016 until October 2017, over 80 people, citizens of Romania, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Serbia, have unlawfully handled important and protected information concerning Sweden and Swedish citizens. Now, this spring, the Riksdag will review the deal through the Constitutional Committee, and there are a number of investigations in addition to the Swedish Transport Agency's own which will draw conclusions and make suggestions on how to avoid similar things happening in the future. The Alliance in the Defence Committee has pointed out an important fact, namely that if there are opportunities for state authorities when they make their purchases of IT services to opt, instead of using the Public Procurement Act, which focuses more on price and quality in general terms, to make use of the Defence and Security Procurement Act, which emphasises the need for protection and security of our IT systems, important benefits can be gained. We thought it was a good input from the Riksdag when the government was updating the strategy, but unfortunately we did not get a hearing for this. In reservation 7 we in the Alliance are developing our reasoning on this. Madam President, I would like For time winning, it is only to reservation 7 that I request approval.
i-33300fa956e5098f-14	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying two things. First of all, of course, I support all the alliance-common and moderate reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation No 1 and reservation No 7. Secondly, in the field of security and defence policy, we always seek broad political solutions. However, given the number of reservations contained in this relatively short report, I have to say that today, unfortunately, there is no broad parliamentary consensus on how to deal with cybersecurity issues. It is serious, and it benefits no one but foreign power that does not have the best interests of Sweden for its eyes. I think it is important that we try to achieve a greater and broader consensus, but that also requires the government to better anchor its policy in the Parliament in this area. Madam President, I would like 2017 was perhaps the most dramatic and revolutionary year we have experienced in the cybersecurity field. That was the year when the issues ended up at the very top of the political agenda. In 2017, all U.S. intelligence organisations unequivocally announced that the U.S. presidential election had been subjected to extensive cyber-infringement by the Russian military intelligence service. This had also affected the presidential elections. Later in the same year we saw Russian information operations aimed at the elections in Italy, France and Germany. It is nothing more than targeted attacks on the heart of democracy in Europe and the United States. In 2017, it was announced that Sweden, together with other countries, has been exposed to the largest global cyberintelligence attacks ever carried out by a virus called Cloud Hopper. Sweden has also been subjected to extensive cyber-expression attempts through the virus called Wanna Cry. It is a virus that has paralysed computers in healthcare and care for the elderly even in a number of Swedish municipalities. According to the FRA, Sweden is exposed to around 10,000 state-sanctioned cyber activities a month. It is also argued that threats increase in strength and extent. In other words, it is a growing threat that we have to deal with in this area, while our readiness leaves much to be desired. FRA, Must and Säpo all point out in their annual reports that there are major deficiencies in Sweden's cyber security. It is about lack of safety culture, lack of safety analysis and weak IT infrastructure in many Swedish authorities. During the summer we saw the consequences in practice through the breakdown that had taken place at the Swedish Transport Agency and then would take place within the government when the issue was to be dealt with. It is in this environment with significantly greater cyber threats and a relatively weak national capacity to prevent and prevent cyber attacks that we need to review the government's new cyber and cyber security strategy. Ultimately, we must ask ourselves whether the strategy contributes to strengthening Sweden's security. The government has taken relatively good time to present this strategy. In fact, Sweden is the last country in the EU to have a national cybersecurity strategy in place. Madam President, I would like A strategy should normally include three Ms: objectives, means and methodology. This strategy is rich in goals. It contains 66 objectives divided into 32 pages. A benevolent interpretation of this is that the government has very high ambitions in the cybersecurity field. Another and, in my view, more likely interpretation is that the government simply has not been able to prioritise or be clear in political governance when preparing the document at the Government Office. If everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. The most relevant thing in a strategy is not how many goals you have, but rather what means and methods you should use to achieve the goals. Here I think there are shortcomings in the strategy. The strategy is more like a target vision than a real strategy that can provide concrete guidance for future work linked to information and cyber security. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with two areas where there are significant shortcomings in the strategy, namely procurement and regulatory responsibilities of authorities. The strategy is very concise when it comes to cybersecurity procurement. Barely half a page of 32 concerns procurement, and that is unfortunate for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is remarkable in the light of the fact that the very essence of the scandal linked to the Transport Agency was, of course, about procurement and outsourcing. This was known within the Government Office when the strategy was written in spring 2017. Secondly, the investigation that formed the basis of the strategy, written by Brå's Director General Erik Wennerström, was very clear that there are major shortcomings in the Swedish authorities' ability to tender. That investigation also argued that public authorities had to impose much higher standards of security in procurement. But none of these proposals can be traced in the final strategy, and that is a shortcoming. Perhaps the biggest issue that needs to be addressed in the cybersecurity field is the issue of organisation and supervision. Four ministers and six authorities are still responsible in one form or another for digitisation and cybersecurity issues. There will be even more supervisory authorities when the NIS Directive is introduced. There are therefore strong reasons to review the organisation and division of responsibilities between cyber security authorities. Madam President, I would like The government, like Allan Widman, says that cybersecurity strategy is a strategy for society as a whole. That's good. Excellent. But it forgets a central part of society, namely the Government Office's own organisation in dealing with cyber security issues. The strategy is not affected at all, and it is a significant shortcoming. The government office itself is the nervous system for the control of the authorities, and it was this nervous system that had a breakdown in connection with and after the scandal linked to the Transport Agency. The strategy would have served to also address the shortcomings of the Government Office in cyber security governance. We Moderates therefore assess the need for a cybersecurity coordinator who can more clearly stick with the work on these issues within the Government Office and that responsibility for cyber security should not lie at the Ministry of Justice but be transferred to the Council of State Committee. In this way, we can achieve a better coherent policy on cyber security issues, which is absolutely necessary in the light of the increased threats we are experiencing in this area and because of the lack of ability to deal with cyber attacks.
i-33300fa956e5098f-33	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only ask for reservation 15. For many years, the term cybersecurity – I prefer to call it cybersecurity – has been a fashion word. Unfortunately, there have rarely been any concrete proposals linked to the use of the term. In any case, the government has now come to the fore in a few parts – both that outsourcing of critical IT structures should not take place without the approval of the security services and that the Defence Radio Agency, the FRA, and others for cyber security important authorities should receive more funds to develop their operations. All this is good. But the best thing is to go all the way. Information technology has not only opened up for efficiency improvements but also increased society's vulnerability in crisis and war. When total defence is restored, the vulnerability of the IT community is included in many aspects. SD believes that sensitive IT structures and databases should not be outsourced at all. The objection that public authorities cannot cope with what private companies may be due to the fact that we have previously had our databases within the public authorities. Of course, private companies can provide training and technical assistance, but sensitive data and code should be managed within the authorities – as it was a few years ago. Hard and software must be searched to ensure that different forms of rear doors are not implanted. Since our systems are to work even in crisis and war, there must be advanced back-up power in all important infrastructure. Data centres containing sensitive databases and infrastructure should also be protected against external violence. For co-ordinated co-operation by the authorities, secure encrypted government networks should be maintained. As Sweden is a leader in micro-satellite, it should be considered whether these can be used to secure communications. As far as satellites are concerned, it is an area that is suitable for Nordic cooperation. In war, we have to expect an advanced opponent to use sophisticated sturgeon equipment. It primarily affects military defence but probably also the whole of society. High-tech research where Sweden has specific competences, for example within crypto, should be classified as a strategic resource and receive additional funding. In the school system, young people should be taught that relationships are not always safe and what to do in crisis and war if you do not get the information you need. It is difficult to predict the digital future. Developments will not follow the direction we imagine or the direction we see in science fiction films. But the development will go further and faster than we think. Nevertheless, we must strive to be forward-looking and make the right decisions early on in a security perspective. In the digital world, the enemy can appear deep into our territory without first taking a lot of terrain. The enemy can hide his true identity and act insidiously as a troll. We can never be naive, but we must build our systems wisely in peacetime. Even in peacetime, the enemy will also be in our systems. The digital attack has already begun on a large scale. When a state actor attacks, it is difficult to determine it because insidiousness is the norm in this area and the attacks usually take place via hijacked computers. Digital infrastructure relevant to total defence has no demarcation to private infrastructure. Since digital is so boundless, our attitude in building our cyber-defence must be humble. For every function we build in our digital infrastructure, we need to reflect on the vulnerability aspect. Just as important as building robust IT systems, it is that we build preparedness through alternative analogue systems. Madam President, I would like Even an ability to win on the digital battlefield is war retention!
i-33300fa956e5098f-53	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent debate. Several reports have shown in recent years that society's work on information and cyber security needs to be properly developed. We see this in the Swedish National Audit Office's review of nine different agencies, and we see it in MSB's national risk and vulnerability analysis. It is serious that the shortcomings are so extensive. Not least last summer's serious events following the Swedish Transport Agency's decision to deviate from the Swedish Civil Protection Act show that security work in general and information and cyber security needs to be specifically upgraded and more widely taken into account in decision-making and operational development. This is also a trend that, among other things, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency has identified as they describe that the security of government agencies and state companies is not dimensioned for the threat picture we see. The government proposes a national model for systematic information management, which would certainly make it easier for actors to work with information and cyber security. It is a good thing, although it is not certain that a model fits all stakeholders depending on their different tasks, size and responsibilities. There is no indication of the status of the model. This risks becoming ineffective. What happens if stakeholders do not use the government's proposed model? Madam President, I would like At least as important as a national model is the existence of clear governance and laws and rules that require actors to take into account, take into account and work with systematic information security in their operations. It is a good thing that the government submits a letter called the National Strategy for Society Information and Cyber Security to the Riksdag, but unfortunately the strategy is not comprehensive. It does not take a broad grasp of society's information and cyber security. Above all, it is a non-obligatory letter without concrete or sharp proposals. In essence, the letter appears to be aimed at state authorities. There is often a lack of reasoning on how government regulation for information security can be made clear to non-government actors. Not least, MSB has shown that systematic information security work is often flawed also at municipal level. The prospect that governance should be clarified in relation to the state authorities is therefore not broad enough to promote the systematic information security work of the whole society. It is clear that the current regulatory framework is not and has not been sufficient. The government should therefore review, in addition to a national model, whether regulation and cyber and information security requirements in relation to municipalities are adequate. The possibility for MSB to have the right of regulation in relation to the municipalities' systematic information security work should also be examined here. Increased supervision is also urgent. Of course, this must be balanced against local self-government, but neither should this be problematized in the government's letter. After all, the government is taking important steps in its strategy but is not really reaching the end of the day for the letter to justify its name. The crime prevention perspective exists, but there are no ambitions and concrete proposals to counteract the growing trend of cyber-based industrial economic espionage. The FRA has identified that government-supported cyber activities against Sweden are also directed towards industry, research and critical infrastructure. Here, too, the government does not provide any answers. When it comes to safe crypto solutions, the Government notes that Sweden needs access to technical expertise to ensure the necessary signal protection. Unfortunately, no proposals are presented on how to ensure this specific technical competence. Information security is not just a technical issue that requires technical competence. Success requires understanding of all the functions of an organization. To name a few, lawyers, analysts, economists, purchasers and data controllers need to know what is safe information. A general boost in knowledge about information security and security protection is needed within the vast majority of organisations. The Government highlights the need for research and higher education. It's good, but it's far from enough. Once again, the overall view of the government is lacking. The government would have been happy to present proposals on how a general increase in knowledge could take place. How individual employees in an organization relate to the security of information is important to maintain a high level of protection, but it is doubtful whether the efforts currently made by a few authorities to increase the knowledge of individuals are really sufficient. Higher ambitions are needed. The Center Party would have liked to have seen developed reasoning on information security as an approach in organisations that work with crisis preparedness and total defence planning. Measures need to be taken to secure IT management and strengthen cyber and cyber security in general, not least for those activities, both private and public, which own and operate socially important activities or infrastructure or otherwise deal with issues related to national security. It is good that the issue of security and integrity is addressed in the letter. Privacy and privacy issues arise when information about individuals is found in an increasing number of digital systems, which may not always have adequate protection. This is a major potential safety risk that also needs to be taken into account and managed. Madam President, I would like The Center Party would have liked to see clearer reasoning and proposals on how the government wants the EU to develop in the cyber area. The importance of participating in international cooperation to increase national capacity to deal with cyber threats cannot be stressed enough. We in the Center Party want the EU to play a greater role in information and cyber security issues. Networking and information systems, and the internet in particular, play an important role in the movement of goods, services and persons. Strengthening the EU's overall capacity in this area is therefore a matter of urgency. We also want minimum information security requirements to be raised in all EU Member States. Even in the operational work on tackling cyber crises, there may be a need to strengthen European cooperation. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse our Amendment No 3.
i-33300fa956e5098f-72	Madam President, I would like We are debating a report on a national strategy for society's information and cyber security. I am, of course, in favour of all the reservations that we have included, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of one: our reservation, which concerns a new cybersecurity authority. It has not, I believe, escaped anyone in this country that cyber security is something that is important in many different ways and that concerns people. It affects Sweden in many different ways that we have so many problems with it. Let me take a few examples. There are 673 police reports of computer viruses blackmail. At the University Hospital in my municipality there are examples of operations being stopped because of blackmail via cyberattacks. In recent years, 81 government agencies and 187 municipalities have been affected by blackmail viruses, and this continues to increase. Before Christmas FRA, Must and Säpo were with us and confirmed that this is something that is increasing. The attacks are getting worse. It is about individuals, groups and countries. The FRA has mentioned that there are about 10 000 cyber attacks per month by foreign power and that this is increasing. But in a way, we can still say that they have been gentle. My view and the opinion of several experts is that if you do not take a concerted approach, we may in the space of a year be hit by a really big cyber attack. What, then, could happen? Let me take a few examples. Public transport may become stationary for a full day when a kidnapping virus attacks a blockage, ticketing or signalling system. Payments with bank cards in stores can be impossible for a few days due to attacks on payment infrastructure. The supply of electricity to households and industries can be temporarily disrupted. This is something that has affected Ukraine, for example, two years in a row. Because of cyber attacks, healthcare cannot be carried out. Foreign power can, through attacks, access information flowing in Sweden's IT and communication systems, which greatly impairs Sweden's prospects of defending itself in the event of war. Our view is that if nothing happens in this area, we can look forward to and fear a cyberattack of this kind in the not too distant future. What we have been proposing for several years is to take a holistic approach to the cyber security issue from the civil side of society by creating a cyber security authority. Today, information and cyber security is governed in a fragmented and fragmented way, putting the interests of the various security authorities ahead of cyber security. The result is that companies, municipalities, state authorities, county councils and other organisations are being hit by ever-increasing regulation in this area. This regle ring almost always focuses on a perspective at a time. It may be data protection for personal data, operational security, security and so on, but regulation follows the same pattern and requires almost the same thing. That is what we would get around by having an authority responsible for this. Firstly, important information or systems should be identified. Secondly, risk analysis shall be carried out. Thirdly, technical and administrative security measures are to be put in place. Finally, reports are to be submitted. For a telecommunications operator, for example, a single IT system can be subject to a handful of different detailed regulations linked to cyber security. Instead of managing the system's safety coherently, the operator is forced to have in practice separate drain pipes – it feels familiar – in response to the detailed regulation. The operator is then forced into five different risk analyses for the IT system instead of one. Different internal solutions are needed to try to meet all these fragmented legal requirements. Whole organisations may be built within municipalities, state authorities and county councils to handle the various safety requirements. One example is the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new regulation that primarily concerns the cybersecurity area and that has once again given rise to new organisations, new analyses and new ways to manage cyber security internally. To avoid this, the cyber security issue for the civilian side needs to be kept together in a different way than before. Our proposal provides for the creation of a new authority that will be given the coherent responsibility for all inspections and will in the long term also acquire the right of representation in the field of information and cyber security. Overall, this will lead to a more uniform regulation that will be easier to understand and comply with for the organisations hit by it. This will make the tax money and resources spent on security really useful. Finally, there is also a great lack of competence in this area. This means that Sweden cannot make a living with expertise in this area. There is therefore no possibility to support a dozen authorities in Sweden, all of which should have different roles with competent staff. A central cybersecurity authority would make a decisive contribution to a more robust society with greater resilience to cyber attacks. It is therefore our view that such an authority should be created as soon as possible.
i-33300fa956e5098f-84	Madam President, I would like During this parliamentary term, we in this House have had occasion to discuss and debate the areas of cyber security and cyber defence on a number of occasions. One reflection is that, every time we have discussed this, it has felt even more urgent and even more urgent. The reason is, of course, events in our surrounding world, as well as here in Sweden, which have exposed vulnerabilities and deficiencies. No one can question today that the cyber threat is real and that cyber security is a priority. Although the risks of a traditional armed attack on Sweden are considered small, the risks of being exposed to cyber attacks are all the greater. It is, Madam President, rather a reality and a part of everyday life for businesses, organisations, authorities and individuals. States, state-sponsored actors, fraudsters, saboteurs – behind the attacks and threats there are different actors with different agendas. But no matter where the attacker comes from, it is clear that the threats are real and must be met with seriousness and determination. There is reason for many to be self-critical about how IT security work has been carried out. A representative of the government who visited us in the Defence Committee some time ago expressed the view that Sweden has incurred a debt in this area. This means that we have a great deal of work ahead of us to strengthen security, improve collaboration and, not least, raise awareness of what lies in the concept of cyber security: from so seemingly banal things as choosing a harder password than the name of their children to leadership and governance, to ensure strong protection around the most secure and to build an active cyber defence that can handle and respond to hostile actions in the cyber environment. It hardly needs to be pointed out that information and cyber security is a complex and multifaceted area where both man and machine must work together. It is against this background that the government's national strategy for society's information and cyber security should be seen. Here we have a document which, on a horizontal level, identifies a number of priority areas in which we as a country need to focus our efforts. The strategy should therefore not be read as a to-do list describing all actions in detail but rather identifying important areas and indicating a direction of travel. The strategy inculcates that information and cyber security is an area that concerns many, not just a few. The strategy points to the need to systematically map information security in society, and the Government also notes the need for a more coherent and coordinated approach. Several of the areas involved in the strategy address the criticisms that the Swedish National Audit Office, in particular, has highlighted in its review reports on cyber security in the state administration. A recurring point has been that there has been a lack of systematic security work and that the authorities have not taken this seriously enough. Perhaps it has not always been understood what it is that you have in the way of information, which is particularly important to protect. But the point from the Swedish National Audit Office has also been directed towards the political level, because it does not exercise effective governance. This document is not a detailed to-do list in the field of cybersecurity. However, a great deal is happening at the moment, and I would like to highlight some measures that have been taken or are about to be taken. There is mandatory cyber incident reporting. Since last spring, it is mandatory for authorities to report serious cyber incidents. This means that we now finally have a tool that gives us a better and more comprehensive picture of the threats and attacks we are facing. This is, of course, absolutely necessary in order to prevent future attacks and to remedy weaknesses. The introduction of the NIS Directive extends, among other things, the circle of actors obliged to maintain a high level of safety in their networks to whole sectors, such as energy, transport and health. The Government is now providing additional resources to the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness to support actors in preventing and managing cyber incidents. MSB will also, in cooperation with the county administrative boards, focus on improving the information security of municipalities. This is, moreover, an area that is very important. Indeed, if we are to involve the local level in the construction of civil defence, cyber security must work. MSB is also tasked with carrying out a national campaign on information and cyber security, which will contain concrete tips on what to do to protect itself against intrusions and cyber-jackings. The defence radio institution, the FRA, which is the state's expert authority and spearhead in preventing and preventing cyber threats, has a strengthened economy. In light of the debacle at the Swedish Transport Agency, the Government has decided that state authorities should be obliged to consult the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces prior to outsourcing, so-called outsourcing, of security sensitive activities. If the requirements for security protection are not deemed to be met, the Swedish Security Service or the Swedish Armed Forces may decide that the relevant authority may not carry out the procurement. In the light of what happened at the Swedish Transport Agency, measures are also taken for a safer state operation by allowing operators carrying out safety-sensitive activities to interact and locate their IT operations in secure common physical spaces. There are therefore many processes at the same time to strengthen society's information and cyber security. We need to keep pace with this work and at the same time ensure that we do the right things and coordinate the work. There is therefore reason for many to read this national strategy and perhaps even keep a copy in the back pocket.
i-33300fa956e5098f-100	Madam President, I would like Clearly, there is a great need to develop society's information and cyber security. We have witnessed on several occasions recently how different countries in Europe and also the United States have been subjected to advocacy campaigns, information warfare, hacker attacks and terrorism. In recent times, several army chiefs and high-ranking military forces in different countries have warned against advocacy campaigns and information warfare from foreign power. At the same time as the general security policy situation in Europe deteriorates – this committee has often discussed this in this House – there are increasing demands on society's capacity in terms of security and emergency preparedness. Ultimately, it is essential that society as a whole has inherent robustness, endurance, resilience and the ability to deal with complex events and asymmetric threats. As Facebook, Twitter and other social media increasingly replace the role of traditional media in communicating news, the possibility of spreading false information campaigns to large groups has greatly increased. Information and media logic is changing at the same time as Sweden is changing to the fourth industrial revolution – it is the age of internet, robotics and digitalisation. The transition offers unimaginable opportunities, while we are already seeing how the lack of robustness of systems and insufficient knowledge among individuals, organisations, companies and authorities create a vulnerability that can easily be abused by malicious forces. We are already seeing how sophisticated technology development is being used for everything from trying to influence the Swedish political debate to accessing sensitive information from the Swedish Armed Forces – or other institutions and companies – or to guard a domestic political opposition that has taken refuge in Sweden. In view of all this, the government has already taken a number of measures. Kalle Olsson has well reported on some of them. I would like to emphasise in particular that we have provided money both to MSB, and its work to meet information campaigns, as well as to other authorities working to strengthen the technical security of our authorities. The government has now also announced that it will set up a new authority for psychological defence, which I think is a good thing. In addition, we are presenting the new strategy for developing society's information and cyber security. An important part of this work is to strengthen psychological defence. At a time of disinformation campaigns and other external influence measures aimed at creating mistrust and fragmentation, it is important to promote psychological resilience and protect people's trust in each other and in society's institutions. The presidential elections in the United States and the referendum in the United Kingdom showed examples of how the inability and lack of preparedness of political institutions to respond to advocacy campaigns and cyberattacks can help undermine confidence in political representatives and, by extension, undermine support for democracy. It is important to emphasise that digitalisation brings great improvements in our society. Sweden will continue to play a leading role in digital industrial development and take advantage of digitalisation's great opportunities to streamline and revitalize the economy and society at large and to ensure that technology contributes to innovations and smart solutions in everyday life. In order to ensure digital competence in the public sector, in companies and in individuals, and at the same time to manage the security risks of increased exposure, a strategy involving large parts of society is needed. It is therefore very positive that the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government have developed a national strategy that includes authorities, municipalities, regions and organisations as well as individuals. The Green Party also wants to see stronger cooperation with other countries in this area, not least with our Nordic neighbours and within the EU. Madam President, I would like Recent developments have clearly raised the need to strengthen also non-traditional defence, adapted to today's complex security situation. We must never take our open and democratic society with freedom of opinion and free media for granted. That is why I am proud of the national strategy for society's information and cyber security that the Green Party is involved in developing in the government.
i-33300fa956e5098f-109	Madam President, I would like We live in an increasingly digitised society, and never before have we people been so dependent on technology. In the not too long future, all the functions of our society will be more or less digitised. Then it is important that we can trust the systems that we have. Digitalisation has usually led to more efficient and well-functioning services and activities, but it has also made us more vulnerable. There has also been a clear increase in incidents related to the Internet, such as data breach, fraud and the spread of malware. Who is behind this may vary, but it may, for example, be private individuals, organised crime, terrorists and other government powers. Lack of information security risks having devastating consequences, which can lead to major problems for, for example, financial systems, health care, food security and national security. When the management of important information is inadequate, it also risks leading to a deterioration of confidence in established social structures. We saw a clear example of this during the summer of 2017 in connection with the events at the Swedish Transport Agency when it was revealed that worthy of protection was handled incorrectly within the authority. The background and reason was the decision to outsource, privatise or outsource the IT business to the private company IBM. The possibility of outsourcing was already initiated by the former bourgeois government and it also bears a certain responsibility. Of course, however, the current government has ultimate responsibility for the serious situation at the Swedish Transport Agency. When short-term profit becomes a driving force for maintaining functioning IT systems, long-term sustainability is put on an opt-out and the whole is lost. Outsourcing of data worthy of protection should be completely avoided. The Left Party shares the committee's concern about the review of nine agencies that the Swedish National Audit Office carried out earlier when it was concluded that the work on information security at the audited authorities is at a level that is noticeable below what is sufficient and, judging from the Swedish National Audit Office's previous reports, does not seem to have developed sufficiently over time. The Security Service has also made some criticisms about the handling of cyber security by state authorities. The Left Party has exercised that the government should come back during the term of office with a strategy to strengthen the state's information and cyber security. Now the government has developed such a strategy, which we welcome. The main objectives of the strategy are to contribute to creating long-term conditions for society's actors to work effectively with information and cyber security and to raise awareness and knowledge across society based on certain priority areas. Now we need to get serious and ensure that the strategy is implemented without delay. We will follow this work closely and come back if necessary. It is also important that a timetable be drawn up and, in this context, consider sanctions for those authorities that do not meet acceptable information and cyber security requirements. First of all, each authority must strengthen its own security and, in the long term, strengthen cooperation and coordination between the state authorities. I would therefore also like to recall in this context the proposal from the State Service Centre's report presented in 2017 to set up a common state cloud service for the public authorities' IT operations. According to the report, the authorities could save 30% of today's IT costs with such a cloud solution, and the system would be significantly safer than today.
i-33300fa956e5098f-120	Madam President, I would like I am completely new in the field of defence or at least in the Committee on Defence, and the issues we are discussing today are, of course, not new. However, I am almost shocked when I read the report and the strategy that has been put forward. It is generally held and rather naive. Digitisation goes into our everyday lives. It's everywhere. We read this morning that the screens had gone out at the management centre in Skåne, and then all traffic stops in one third of Sweden. That's what it looks like. There are incredibly serious shortcomings in this area of security, and we are very concerned that the government is first delaying and will be a year late with this strategy and then coming with public goods. I have devoted the autumn to examining the IT failure of the Swedish Transport Agency, and to the Left Party I would like to say that the problem is not the outsourcing in itself, but that it has broken the rules and laws that apply in this area, which is very bad. It is also necessary to have a well-thought-out approach when taking in external skills, as sensitive tasks can come into operation. It is almost so in many authorities, as has been reported in a number of reports, that we not only open the door to the malicious, but we almost roll out the carpet for people so that they can step into our registers and systems. We cannot, of course, continue to do so. I share Pål Jonson's view that we need to review the organisation and the division of responsibilities between our authorities. We need a clearer approach to follow-up on the measures taken, and more creativity is needed in dealing with the practical consequences of the vulnerability we see today. Sweden is in trouble. We are at the forefront of digitalisation, and we are good at it. But we have forgotten that there are many risks and difficulties. I think that Kalle Olsson listed some good measures that the government is taking, and I think that is excellent. But much more is needed. I also think it is good what he mentions about the fact that one now gets a reporting obligation and that one must coordinate when outsourcing with Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces. That is what I think an ordinary citizen is already starting from. There is probably quite a lot to highlight if you pick among the stones, and we need to follow up on the concrete measures very carefully. We cannot rely on the authorities, by reading this strategy, to make much further progress. In his speech, Pål Jonson also called for some kind of coordination with the parliamentary parties. I think we need to discuss this much more closely and be quite practical. This is, of course, important from a defence point of view, but it is also important for the functioning of our society. We are very busy when trains are cancelled, when subsidies cannot be paid or when something else is not working. It is here to stay, and we must become much more concrete. I think the government has a lot of work ahead of it, because this is not quite good enough. However, we should be glad that it came anyway, otherwise we would have had a comment from other quarters because the deadline is in ours.
i-33300fa956e5098f-130	Madam President, I would like The Government has proposed amendments to the Aliens Act which require foreigners, like Swedish citizens, to be photographed and fingerprinted in order to prove the authenticity of travel documents. We share this view and think it is a good proposal, but at the same time we believe that further action must be taken to prevent the problems we see with the development of the use of fake passports and the trade in Swedish passports. We must curb the fact that a large number of Swedish passports are disappearing. The proposal certainly solves some of these problems, but we also want to see more stringent legislation for these particular parts, for example for those who hand out their passport to someone else for abusive purposes. We also want to see that the police in the regulation letter are given the task of prioritising the fight against trafficking in Swedish passports. In their reservation 3, the Moderates have proposed the use of biometric checks at the Schengen external border. We are not in favour of Schengen, but rather we believe that the national states should introduce their own border controls between the countries. However, it is also important to prevent, for example, terrorists entering our country or people who do not have the right to be in the country, and that is precisely why we are in favour of increasing controls as much as possible at the border. At present, it is Schengen that is to carry out these checks, and for that reason we have also chosen to support that reservation. Having said that, Madam President, I call for reservations 2 and 3.
i-33300fa956e5098f-135	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the part of the clean-up of police work dealing with animals. This change comes from an initiative taken in 2014 by the Alliance government, which then set up an investigation. The point of it was that the police would have more time to concentrate on their core tasks of maintaining public order and security and fighting crime, something that, of course, we see the need for. This is not the first time you have landed in the conclusion of moving the animal data from the police. It was also up for discussion and there was a discussion about it at the beginning of the 21st century. But there was nothing about it then, so it is good that we are getting to grips with it now, so to speak. I will say something short about other things that have also been done and are done for the clean-up of police duties. In addition to this proposal, the relocation of transports of detainees to the Prison Service is decided upon and under way, and work is also under way on the care of intoxicated persons. I'll tell you a little bit about the police's responsibility for animal affairs today. The current order says that the police authorities will transport, vet, store, sell, donate and kill animals. The police also administer the costs of this. The police assist the county administrative boards when they are at risk of problems in the performance of their official duties and decide on the immediate execution of killings when there are animals suffering. The police also have tasks related to cats and dogs based on the law of supervision, such as deciding whether a dog should have a leash or a muzzle or simply deciding on a dog's ban. One task for the police is also to receive intelligence about dogs running loose in areas where there is game and handling it. The killing of wild cats in densely populated areas is another task, as is the decision to kill wild game that can be dangerous to humans and to fix situations where wild animals have been injured in traffic. There are simply quite a few important tasks that the police carry out. I did not mention all of them, but just took a few examples. The proposal does not involve the transfer of all these data. Some tasks we suggest remain with the police, but with this proposal we want to move to the county administrative boards. The tasks we propose remain with the police are, among other things, the immediate care of animals suffering. Then the County Administrative Board may test whether the care should continue to apply. There are strong animal welfare reasons for doing so. The police are on duty 24 hours a day and, of course, can constantly meet animals who simply cannot remain where they are. The police will continue to provide assistance if there are special reasons for doing so. When one believes that the county administrative authority could be treated badly, the police should of course be able to retain the possibility of using force or violence when necessary. Also in the hunting area and with regard to the law on property peace and reindeer nutrition, we propose that the police retain some of the data. The police shall also be able to decide to kill an animal immediately if it is severely injured or ill. With these changes, the Police Authority is relieved of the tasks where the connection to the police's core tasks is weak or completely lacking, which was the aim of the proposal. The legislation shall apply from 1 June of this year. There is an idea of how the transition should proceed as described in the proposal. This, of course, has implications for budgeting, when costs and hence money in the budget are passed on to the county administrative boards. There is a majority in favour of the proposal in committee, and I think that is a good thing. The Alliance has presented a follow-up motion that has not exactly to do with this issue, but they want the Riksdag to ask the government once more to continue to look at how the police's tasks can be further refined. We have opposed this because the mission is already given and it is being worked on within the Government Office, not because we disagree on the substance. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision and support our reservation, but I will not be in favour of it.
i-33300fa956e5098f-150	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would just like to say that the Swedish Democrats are behind the efforts to streamline the police's work, so that more hours worked can be spent on what gives effect with intervention activities and investigation of crime. This is also the reason why we support an announcement on the further clean-up of police activities and that the investigation into clean-up of police duties should be speeded up in accordance with what the announcement describes. However, investigating how police activities are to be refined does not necessarily mean supporting all proposals aimed at leading in this direction. When it comes to the animal police, we disagree with the report. We believe that the police's work with animals can be developed rather than phased out. There is added value in the fact that the police handle animal issues and have a comprehensive approach to different situations where, for example, crime can occur in connection with animals. We have been proposing for many years that we have a national animal protection police where the rights of animals and the welfare of animals are given a status that, with a more fragmented responsibility, is at risk of being lost. To motivate the police to focus on, for example, gang crime rather than, for example, animal cruelty may sound like a reasonable argument to some, and I am actually prepared to agree with that. It is an argument that finds sympathy when police resources fail and one feels that the most serious crimes are not cleared up. It has never been the wish of the Swedish Democrats to reduce police capacity. It was the Alliance and the Red-Green Government who felt that we did not need to train more police officers at the beginning of this term of office. The results are seen in society today. The solution to the police crisis is not to tear down functioning activities within the police, but to push for the police. It has been, is and will be the first priority of the Swedish Democrats. With the Swedish Democrats' police, we can not only afford to spend resources on the most acute crime in our country. With the Swedish Democrats' police, we can also afford to give a status and take a concerted approach to animal issues through a national animal welfare police. That is why I would like to support our reservation, which is intended to do just that.
i-33300fa956e5098f-157	Madam President, I would like When there is a crisis and no one else is in place, when there is a crisis and no one else is designated to solve the task and stand up, then the police are there. The police are always the ultimate resource of society. A lot of working time is spent on other things than law enforcement and crime prevention. When no one else is named, the police come in. Madam President, I would like We had the last parliamentary term and before that a government that was always prepared to allocate resources to the police when the police could use the funds themselves. There were record increases in the budget. There were record increases in the number of police officers employed. There was a record increase in training places in our police training. At the same time, we had a government that was not afraid to demand that the police should deliver, demand efficiency, not least in terms of the crime resolution, which had declining figures. Then we changed the government. And I would now like to remind you, despite the fact that we have a different debate context, how this parliamentary term began. We got a government that talked about reorganization in the term of savings. It was a fact that you would make money and save on the police. The government began its term of office by removing the 20 000 police case and said that the agency can decide for itself whether you need any police officers or not. Investigations were closed, and the demands just disappeared. The committee was out a few years ago and met the different regions. Quite striking was that a leading person who worked in criminal investigations turned to Beatrice Ask, then chairman of the Committee of Justice and former Minister of Justice, and said: It was good that when you were a minister you asked for our results. Now it doesn't seem to be anyone who cares at all. Madam President, I would like Now we have a different context, and the government, too, seems to have realised that this is an important issue for the electorate. That's why it sounds a whole different way. Suddenly, the government is beginning to push for moderate proposals and alliance proposals. This is fundamentally positive because these efforts must be made. Two important investigations were set up last term of office in order to streamline the tasks of the Political Authority. One concerned transport, which has taken a large part of the police's working time. It was about the responsibility of the penitentiary to take over more of the penitentiary transport service. This has now been implemented after quite a long time. The second important study forms the basis of today's report. The investigation would generally look at what tasks could be transferred to other authorities. It was able to make a partial proposal, and this is about today's dossier, in the field of animal welfare. Then the new government chose to close it. You wouldn't keep looking at this. The work has not been resumed either, even if some kind of internal departmental work is being referred to at the moment. Why is this important? Because no one else voluntarily takes on these tasks. Every time we transfer tasks, it is protested. The county administrative boards have not been happy to get new tasks and speak immediately of increased costs. This is how it's going to sound in every area, so the issue will never be solved by itself. It must be solved with solid investigative work and by parliamentary decision, otherwise nothing happens. No one voluntarily takes on the information. That is why the Alliance has been rather stubborn and thought it important for this work to be resumed. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, Parliament made a decision calling on the government to resume its work. Then nothing happened, and the Alliance two years later had to point out that the Parliament's decision had to be followed. But nothing's happened. This means that we are now setting a date; the work must have resumed on 1 March 2018. It is a sharper call from the Riksdag to get back to work because the two previous decisions have been suppressed for such a long time. Perhaps someone in a line will say that this is unrealistic because it is so short about time when we are already in the middle of January. No, it's not short of time. This has been known to the government since long before Christmas. The question is whether any work or directives have begun to be produced. We shall see that on 1 March. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that if we are to solve the difficult situation that exists in many areas and ensure that we have police staffing throughout Sweden, more resources will be needed. We need more police because the population has increased at a fairly rapid rate, and we must have resources for reasonable wages. We must also dare to talk in terms of efficiency and being able to deliver. This requires, on the one hand, a clean-up of the police's tasks, and, on the other hand, leadership within the authority and political leadership. There are, Madam President, two parts that I feel are missing too much today.
i-33300fa956e5098f-171	Madam President, I would like Several of my colleagues have explained the importance of renouncing the diverse variety of tasks of the police so that it can focus more on its core mission: maintaining public order and security and preventing and investigating crime. The transfer of data in the field of animals from the police to county administrative boards is good and important, but there is much more to be done in this area. It is therefore very important that the government resumes this work. We seem to agree that it is important, so why not work on this issue seriously in order to come up with more such proposals that we are going to decide on today? On that we do not seem to be getting any clear information. Madam President, I would like When I was going to write this speech, I did as I usually do. I was updated on what we had decided in committee, what was the basis for our positions and how we could best present it in an understandable way. In this process, there are always ideas that we want to follow up and thoughts about why what we are doing right now is important and why our positions are those who in the best way for politics to move forward and make Sweden a little better country to live in. Animal welfare is close to my heart, and there are few things that touch me as deeply as animals that get hurt. The transfer of these tasks from the police to the county administrative boards is both a risk and an opportunity. When a dog or cat is taken care of, it can then be sold, donated or killed. There is a risk that the Authority will choose the latter for practical reasons. You don't have time to find new homes for the animals. There's nothing strange about this. That's the way most dogs and cats end their earth days. But when it comes to healthy animals that could have so much more to give, I really hope that they can come to home where they can get security and be well cared for and themselves make great use of what makes dogs and cats so infinitely valuable to us: to make us happy with their madness and peculiarities and the warmth and energy they give us. In most cases these are animals with special needs. They may not work in a certain environment where reminders of terrible experiences cause them to behave in a way that is unmanageable. But they can work well in another environment. I was on a website yesterday, hundutanhem.se, and found such fine, beautiful personalities that will be able to be of so much joy and feel the security and joy that all dogs should feel. A little guy of unknown terrier blend called Mario. He's a year and a half and he seems absolutely wonderful. He reminds me a lot of our jack russell terrier Otto, and I can say that you never get bored with a terrier. There's a lot of dog in a small package. Mario cannot be among children, for he grew up in an environment where children treated him badly. He slowly needs to get used to new people and therefore has special needs, but I'm sure there's a home for him where he finds his place in life. Another dog, a girl in almost three years, Tia, reminds me of our golden retriever, but is of unknown mixture. According to the description, she is alert and happy and likes to jog and run next to the bike. It's just like our Atlas; running is the best thing he knows. If you listen to this debate for this very reason – you simply think it's important that the animals are doing well – there's a lot you can do. Of course, the best thing is if you have the opportunity to take care of a dog or cat that needs a home, but it is not always practical. Then perhaps one could consider supporting one of the activities that puts voluntary commitment on this particular issue. Hundalanathem.se, I've mentioned. Stockholm Cat Home is another, with the internet address fethemmet.nu. There are many others to find if you search online. If you have pets, think about when you get home tonight how much you get out of it and how empty it would be without him or her in your life. If you don't have pets, think about what it would be like to be met by someone who's really happy to see you and who overwhelms you with expressions of friendship. Such a being requires so little in exchange to share his existence with you. That is one reason why we are debating this today. The second is that the police should be given the opportunity to do their important job of securing the security of our entire elongated country. That, Madam President, is not a bad combination.
i-33300fa956e5098f-185	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Liberals support the committee's proposal that we transfer the responsibility for handling animal matters from the Police Authority to the County Administrative Boards. However, the real debate is ultimately about the police's ability in an understaffed situation where it is not even able to deal with the most serious crimes, such as reported sexual crimes and rapes. That is why the committee has an announcement, which Elin Lundgren of the Social Democrats has not commented on in his speech at all. Year after year, we demand that you resume your work on the clean-up of police duties. The Liberals want to know today in this House why one of the government's first police decisions was to close the investigation in February 2015. Why, Elin Lundgren, did you decide to close this important investigation? How can the report state that, according to the government, the need to streamline the police has never been greater than it is now? It's not credible when your first move was to put an end to the redeployment of police duties. Another issue that was also raised in Elin Lundgren's speech was the Act on Intoxicated Persons. 60 000 people are taken care of by the police every year, and too many die in the brig. We in the Liberals have proposed, as late as December, that the police should be relieved of responsibility and that this should mainly be on the health care system by setting up different types of sobering units. Medical care is much better suited to handle drunk people than the police. In the summary of the report, the government parties – they use it in their argumentation – state that it is about to happen, that there has been a project going on, that in principle this has already been done and that the police have in principle lost responsibility for the law on drunk people. But that's not true. The Swedish police are very much still ultimately responsible for the Act on Intoxicated Persons. One should not compare a legislative change and a proper clean-up of the police's tasks with a project introduced by the Alliance Government in 2014, which has run until 2016 and is currently being evaluated. In addition, the Social Democrats in the report refer to an investigation from 2002, which highlights a number of areas where police tasks could be refined, namely animal matters, to allow the Prison Service to handle a number of transports and the Act on Intoxicated Persons. Things have happened during these 16 years. That is why we in the Liberals and the Alliance believe that a real holistic approach must be taken on the police's tasks. It may be that the matter on which we are going to decide today is small and narrow and that it only covers animal matters – for the police, this will hopefully mean a lot when it comes to freeing up resources and time – but the real and important work lies before us. This becomes even more relevant in the situation we see, when there is not a week to go by without us being able to see what police chiefs are doing in the media. They say to the public, almost appealing: we won't deal with house invasions, we won't go out when you call the police and we can't deal with sexual crimes. That is why the question of renouncing police duties becomes particularly important.
i-33300fa956e5098f-195	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to Mr Roger: you said that I did not mention the reservation and the motion you have tabled, but that is how I closed my speech. It is very sad if we Members in here do not even listen to each other when we make our speeches. I'm afraid I'm allowed to interpret it as Roger Haddad didn't. In fact, it is the government that should answer these questions, but very simple one can say that the reason why the said investigation was closed was that one could see that there were two big things that one could quickly and easily do something about. It is about the transport of detainees, as I mentioned, as well as animal matters, which is what we are mainly working on here today and which, I am glad to say, is on the way. Roger Haddad also mentioned the Act on Intoxicated Persons, which I also mentioned. I wouldn't say that I somehow hit my chest and said it's done. On the contrary, I said that the work is in progress. I share the picture that there is more that needs to be done. I do not see this as a general police debate, although I understand that several others are taking the opportunity to raise various issues around the police and, for example, to insinuate that the current government would not be interested in doing anything to change the situation, which is of course not true. Of course, the picture that Roger Haddad gives and the whole situation in the police is not true. The police also have success all the time, just as we want.
i-33300fa956e5098f-199	Madam President, I would like With regard to the examples I mentioned with police chiefs who speak in the media, it is the Police Authority itself who goes out and tells about its situation, not the Liberals' communication department. The Social Democrats did not answer my question. Why did your government and your party close this important investigation in February 2015, Elin Lundgren? I want to know. Then you refer to another argument not to go further in renouncing the police's duties, namely that there is work going on internally within the Government Office. Your party is in charge of the Justice Department, working on these issues. Tell me in this Chamber, Elin Lundgren, what is going on, because you believe that our proposal and our investigation did not measure up and could just as well be closed down!
i-33300fa956e5098f-202	Madam President, I would like Once again, I note that when I deliver answers to the question asked by Roger Haddad as to why the investigation was closed, it is as if it did not go forward. Then I stress again that the government mainly saw two big things crystallizing themselves. They were to be acted upon, and it was not then considered that this particular investigation should continue. And no, I can't tell you exactly what the government is going to do, but, among other things, what we've been talking about – the law on drunk people-- is one of the things you're looking at. Roger Haddad shares the picture that there is something that needs to be done. I am well aware that police officers are, of course, telling us about the problems that exist within the organisation, but I note that when Roger Haddad is going to tell us how the police work is going, he consistently chooses to select the headlines that are black. I never hear anything about the amazing police work that is also being done. With this, I do not want to say that we have no problem preventing, counteracting and prosecuting, because we have. We share that picture, but it is certainly not as black as Roger Haddad claims.
i-33300fa956e5098f-206	Madam President, I would like Liberals do not claim that everything is night black, but we point to examples where today, because of all the tasks, the police are unable to manage their mission and are even forced to prioritise between serious crimes. It follows that, of course, we are commenting on the second request in the report, which deals with police duties. I do not share the view of the closed investigation, because it was there that the issue of the law on intoxicated persons should be thoroughly investigated. That is where concrete proposals should have been made as to who could take over. Is the Prison Service best suited, is the healthcare system best suited, should psychiatry be involved and how should the detention and arrest issue be handled? That's why it's important. One cannot just close the case and hope that someone at the Ministry of Justice will make progress on this. That's why you set up an investigation. I have debated this issue many times with the Social Democrats, and I know that for you this issue was not important. But now that it has been three years since the investigation was closed, you are suddenly writing in the report that there is almost nothing more important than renouncing the police's duties and that there is now a great need. You have zero credibility in this matter.
i-33300fa956e5098f-210	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats support the proposal to streamline the police's tasks in the area of animal welfare, which is the subject of the report. I listened to the line just now between Roger Haddad and Elin Lundgren. I think it's going to be a little inconsistent from the government. As I understood it, the answer to the question was why it was so important to close the investigation, as one of the first measures in the police field, that two areas have crystallized that the government thought it could proceed with without continuing the investigation. At the same time, Elin Lundgren said in his speech – it also says in the report – that the issues of renouncing police duties are being conducted intensively in the Government Office. That impression is given in the debate. Why is it so important to work with this in the Government Office, if it has already crystallized two areas that the government thinks it has delivered on? The reasoning doesn't make sense. This, I think, makes visible the government's lax attitude towards the Police Authority, which was primarily taken over. The investigation was closed into renouncing the police's work. The target of at least 20,000 police officers was removed. The Home Secretary in charge of the police should have said that it does not matter very much if it is 19 000 or 20 000 police officers. It also dismissed for several years the proposals of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance for more police and increased resources for the police as a number bingo. I believe that the government's lax attitude towards the police and the police crisis has exacerbated the police crisis. The efforts to streamline police duties must continue. It needs to be looked at how even more resources can be released to strengthen the central parts of police work – to manage investigations, to manage crime prevention, to manage to fight gangs and to put an end to the development that we see. That is why it is so urgent to resume the investigation that the government closed as one of its first measures in the police field. That is why we from the Christian Democrats and the Alliance have now returned with an announcement with a date – on 1 March 2018, the government will resume this investigation. The Parliament will, as it stands, decide on it at the vote of the afternoon. I would therefore like to hear from the representatives of the Government in this debate how it will be done. The Government will receive a parliamentary decision to resume an investigation into releasing resources and purifying the police's work. It is also not good enough to say, as a government representative in a parliamentary debate, that the government can answer the questions. I think Elin Lundgren, as the representative of the largest government party, should represent the government. It has been said in the report that the government is working on these issues in the Government Office. But we have not seen any sign of reopening this investigation. That is why we are sending a new announcement to the government.
i-33300fa956e5098f-221	Madam President, I would like In our world there are very many different ways to get from point A to point B. But one of the most environmentally friendly ways to do that is by bike. With the help of muscle power, which we get by stepping on our pedals ourselves, and energy, which we get through our food which is hopefully produced in an environmentally friendly way, we can get from point A to point B with a minimal amount of emissions and with minimal congestion. For this to be possible, the infrastructure is crucial. Many cyclists today feel that the infrastructure available is not up to date. As politicians, we must want to see and remedy this. We learn from a number of other modes of transport that the infrastructure of the mode of transport is crucial for the growth of the number of travellers. We see it on the car side, we see it among trains, we see it in public transport and we see it also in cycling. It's obvious. It doesn't really matter how many bicycles we buy or have standing in our garages, on our driveways or in bike racks unless the conditions to use them are favourable enough for us to do so. It is therefore strange that the government decides to spend money on an e-bike premium. When an e-bike premium comes up, one might think that the e-bike industry is failing and that it is an industry that needs great incentives to get started. But really, I didn't think it looked like when I last looked at the numbers. The amount of electric bicycles sold is increasing in Sweden, as well as quite strongly. What worries me is whether our infrastructure is actually up to the point that the increase now taking place in electric bicycles on our roads can also be managed in a good, efficient and safe way for the traveller. Therefore, I would rather see a clearer focus on the infrastructure. Cycling is also an important issue from a public health perspective. We move our body to feel better. We are demonstrably better off by physical activity, and that is, of course, something that should also be encouraged. But all the research that is about increasing the volumes of something shows that the conditions for using them are also necessary for it to be successful. It does not matter how many electric bicycles are bought for a cheaper money if they are not used. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 1, but we Moderates are, of course, behind all our reservations.
i-33300fa956e5098f-228	Madam President, I would like This report contains 22 reservations and eighty claims. That's quite a lot. Having said that, I would first of all like to say that we support our reservations and the specific opinion. But for time winning, I'm only pressing for reservation 13. It is noticeable that cycling affects, both politically and in the streets, given the upsurge in the sale of bicycles, especially electric bicycles. Why is cycling increasing now? The bike is not a new invention. Has the public suddenly become aware that it is good for health? Maybe it is. Is it because of all the queues and crowds to and from work? Maybe it is. Is it because congestion taxes and parking fees are expensive? Maybe it is. Even my own mother has chosen the car for the bike. And even my old father is thinking about buying himself an electric bike, so that he can ride to Liseberg and dance on the weekends. Whatever the reason, cycling is increasing among adults, but not at all among children. Why is that? It's really hard to know. But in the past, each and every other child cycled to school. I think it's because of insecure environments. Maybe it's not just because of the traffic situation, but because society has changed. We must do something about that. We may also need to invest more in information at school, so that you know how to behave both in traffic and in other situations when you get by bike to and from school. But it is positive that you choose the bike. There is less congestion, public health is improved and it is easier for those who have to take the car to their work to find parking. It obviously looks different depending on where in the country you live. In sparsely populated areas it may not be as attractive to take the bike when it is very long distance. It can be problematic to find roads where you can take your bike to and from your work. This applies not least if you think of two plus one roads, where there are virtually no roadsides so that you can ride along the side of the road. There are cable racks that make it really painful to run on. Neither mopeds nor bicycles therefore have a great opportunity to travel on two-plus-one roads. That's where we have to think when we build new roads, so you get a weigher. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, with increased cycling, we also see an increase in accidents. Then we need to review the security and regulatory framework. A collision between a cyclist and a pedestrian often leads to serious head injuries and, in the worst case, even death. However, the cyclist who has a helmet rarely suffers head injuries in such a collision. The number of injured as a result of collisions between cyclists and pedestrians has increased in recent years, especially in spring seasons – not to be forgotten all single accidents caused by gravel roads. Often it's about severe head injuries and neck injuries, but not if you have a helmet. As has been said, those who have had helmets are usually able to do without such damage, and we should perhaps review the possibility of getting people to wear helmets to a greater extent. In crowded cities, local politicians may have to reconsider. Perhaps you should build on floors – plan the different ways forward. It is about building cycle paths on top of bridges to increase accessibility. It is difficult on the ground to fit lanes for cars, public transport, footpaths and bike paths. Simpler and clearer rules on traffic would hopefully also be a measure that reduces the number of accidents. Most accidents occurring between bicycle and vehicle in traffic happen at intersections. For example, there have been bicycle crossings and bicycle passages, and I think the knowledge about these is quite low. What's the deal at a bike pass? What's the deal with a bicycle passage? I had no idea before I sought out the information myself. Cycling crossings mean that the vehicles should avoid for cyclists, while in the case of bicycle passages the cyclists should avoid the vehicles. I believe that we need to provide information on the traffic rules for these types of traffic, in order to reduce accidents.
i-33300fa956e5098f-241	Madam President, I would like We all know that cycling normally has a positive impact on public health. At the same time, cycling is a means of transport that provides people with both mobility and accessibility without increasing greenhouse gas emissions or even causing significant congestion. The bike as a means of transport is therefore reasonably one of the tools we have in our country to transform Sweden into a society independent of fossil fuels. Therefore, the work of the Riksdag, the Government and the authorities on regulatory simplifications and infrastructure that facilitate the use of bicycles must continue. The previous speaker well illustrated the current confusion regarding rules for bicycle passages and crossings. It must be easy to do the right thing, and, as I said, there are several improvements to be made for cyclists. It will strengthen the role of the cycle as a means of transport. While we can note that road safety work in our country is largely moving in the right direction – there are fewer people killed and injured – the number of people injured in bicycle accidents is increasing. Bikes as modes of transport differ. Of course, this is not acceptable, and that is why increased efforts are needed to make it safer to use the bike as a means of transport. I think it is absolutely necessary not to break a positive trend. More people must dare to use their bike in everyday life. As a representative of the Center Party, I noted that the government needs to increase its concreteness in the action plan for how this can be done. The cycle strategy presented barely a year ago, spring 2017, was not only very late, but we believe that it also suffered a serious lack of concrete proposals. There were many words and beautiful pictures, but it was not very concrete. It is time that the cycle was given serious priority in national transport policy. The cooperation government, i.e. the Social Democrats and the Green Party with the support of the Left Party, will shortly have its chance to show some commitment to the issue. It will come when the Government establishes the national transport plan for the period 2018 – 2029. Then it is up to evidence: Will there be more resources for cycling? Are resources allocated to simplify the role of the cycle in society and make it clear? Will there be designated resources regionally and locally to build cycle paths and crossings? The Alliance government was the first government to allocate special resources to the means of transport cycle in a national transport plan, which it did in 2006–2010. The question is whether the cooperation government will match this. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 1 in the report.
i-33300fa956e5098f-248	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the Liberals' proposals, but I am satisfied with the winning of time by demanding the approval of reservation 5 and reservation 1. Madam President, I would like As many have already done, cycling is really a climate-smart mode of transport. It is good for the climate, good for public health and good for reducing congestion in traffic jams and public transport. I myself have recent experiences from both Spain and New York. It should be easy to cycle even as a tourist. Why is there no more emphasis on enabling cycling? I often ask myself that question. This report lacks concrete action, despite the fact that there are many good proposals in the motions. There is a great deal of commitment among many members both in committee and in parliament, but there is a long way to go to concrete action on decisions. Sweden can and must be better – and dare to test new proposals. Some measures, such as signage and regulatory change, are economically cheap measures. It doesn't cost much to change and improve. It is not all about money or the lack of money. Knowledge about bicycle planning is great in society. There are a lot of good planners out there whose skills we should take advantage of. Many cyclists and pedestrians would likely experience a great improvement if they avoided some of the conflicts that exist. Public authorities must interact with municipal authorities both when it comes to the construction of bicycle infrastructure and when it comes to operation and maintenance. Cycling should be seen as its own mode of transport and mode of transport. Here I would like to point out that different expressions are used, but that it is about raising the status of planning cycling paths. It is about status, priorities and clarifying. It would affect the design of bicycle infrastructure, as well as the follow-up, financing and planning – as for any other form of infrastructure. It's really about raising the status. It is also about laws and regulations that will raise the status of cycling. There is a lack of infrastructure to exploit the potential of choosing the bike as a means of transport. Building sustainable habitats needs to make it possible for individuals to choose a climate-smart mode of transport to a greater extent. A larger proportion of car journeys could be replaced by a bicycle if the infrastructure was better adapted to e.g. commuting. Investment for increased cycle commuting should be a priority, as should other investments. I note that it is difficult today to trace specified investments in cycling, as there is a lack of good account of both measures on follow-up. Other modes of transport have clear funding and follow-up. Cycling should be given the same status as other modes of transport and traffic. That is why I think it is important that cycling is made clear in, for example, the budget appropriations, like the others. The Parliament made a decision on an announcement, but the government has chosen not to follow it. This report considers the issue to be closed. Why do the government parties not want to raise the status of cycling? Why should cycling not be considered equivalent to other modes of transport? Why? It is important that we have a good infrastructure. The Finnish Transport Agency may be responsible for guidelines for the construction of the bicycle infrastructure even when the authority is not a road keeper. The Finnish Transport Agency's responsibility for regional routes and inter-urban links is a possible solution to the division of responsibilities for a more coherent cycle infrastructure. When you ride a bike, you would like to arrive from A to B. If you drive a car you expect this, and even as a cyclist you expect to come from A to B. This is not always the case – sometimes the strings run out, and you can't move on. Modern guidelines are also needed with regard to investments in a coherent cycle infrastructure. It should be able to look different depending on which string it is or whether it is about commuting paths for cyclists. It should be easy to find, and it should be easy to do the right thing. Investment should therefore be a priority. The regulatory framework for the use of congestion charges should be amended so that bicycle-related measures can also be taken where necessary. You have to build paths that have a good standard, quality and design when you build new ones. Therefore, the regulatory framework for state grants and co-financing for bicycle routes should be conditional on good design and quality. Today, cyclists and pedestrians often share space, which is sometimes very unfortunate. This design has an impact on the safety of both groups of road users. It should be safe both to walk and to ride a bicycle, so when you build new routes you should separate cyclists and pedestrians wherever possible. Furthermore, bicycle bridges should, of course, be part of infrastructure planning. Madam President, I would like It is also very difficult to find land when building new routes – the legislation that facilitates the development of roads does not apply to bicycle paths. Under the current rules, bicycle routes can be built within the framework of the Road Act if they are considered to be part of a road structure. However, according to the Road Act, a cycle path cannot be built if it is not connected to a road. This prevents and stops the possibility to build bike paths. Current rules mean that the Swedish Transport Administration currently only has the possibility to gain ground access through road plans or through voluntary agreements. If municipalities do not make use of the detailed planning instrument, the only option left is to sign agreements voluntarily, and we know that this does not work everywhere. The consequence is that there will be no cycle path. The current system is not working. It should be both a state and a municipal interest to build coherent paths for pedestrians and cyclists, as it does for other modes of transport. New solutions are therefore needed to meet the need for access to land for infrastructure planning. Madam President, I would like What will the future of cycling look like? There's cargo bikes. There are tricycles for adults. There are, as has been said, electric bicycles and bicycles with trailers. This means that the requirements on the type of infrastructure we set up will increase. That is why we must be involved in this discussion and look at how we set up the new strings, so that they are also suitable for future cyclists. Various measures are needed to make cycling more attractive, for it should be easy to do the right thing. One measure that would make it easier for cyclists, for example, is to color the tracks, so that you know where to cycle and where to go. This would make it easier for cyclists to do the right thing. Today's traffic rules are difficult and do not always contribute to increased road safety. This applies, among other things, to crossings. It would be welcome if cyclists were given priority, for example through green, which means that a crossing can be designed so that cyclists from all sides can get green light and be released at the same time. It should be easier to cross crossings, and accessibility should increase. There are many countries that go ahead and have tested different solutions in terms of traffic rules. There I think that Sweden has a lot to learn. It is also the case that in spring 2014 VTI presented a report on accessibility that is affected by, for example, road works. The important regulatory changes include, as has been mentioned earlier, the need not to cycle on the road. It is also about the regulations that apply to driving over cyclists. I was recently in a country and tested this rule. I cycled where there was a rule requirement that a car driving over a cyclist had to keep one and a half meters away. It worked fine. Then I sat in a rental car and drove the same string. I drove past the cyclists by a mile and a half. This rule actually affects the operation of the traffic, because you do not overtake a cyclist if you risk a meeting. The rule works. It is practical and clear. Why not test this regulatory framework in Sweden? It doesn't cost anything. It's about signage. That would be a good way to try to increase road safety. Madam President, I would like We also have a dilemma with combination travel. What is the mobility of the future? Should I be able to cycle part of the route, switch to public transport and maybe continue with a rental bike? It is incredibly important that we start to think about mobility from A to B and that you can travel smartly and cycle parts of the route. It would be a good thing to ensure that public transport at least admitted that you could bring a bicycle or switch over to a rental bike. I note that children's cycling is decreasing quite drastically. Fewer children are cycling today than before. It would be important to invest in creating good and safe paths, so that children learn how to ride a bike? It would also be a public health effort. But here too it is important to plan the infrastructure so that the children get to school or preschool. Madam President, I would like Cycling is also a symbol of freedom. I note that although we can cycle in Sweden, there are actually countries where women are not allowed to cycle. It gives too much freedom to sit on a bike and then be able to move quite long distances. Therefore, cycling is prohibited for women in some countries. I think it is important to remind you of this and to point out in Sweden how important this freedom is. Cycling is an activity of freedom and equality. Madam President, I would like It's fun to ride a bike, but it should be safe. It is also important to give many more opportunities to cycle. Here the Riksdag has a very important role to play. Often you are told that it is the municipalities' responsibility to arrange such opportunities. When I cycle to the Riksdag, I cycle through three municipalities. These three municipalities have to work together to get me there. This shows the potential to enable more people to experience the freedom of cycling.
i-54q3z2AJkEF2uZEWfbQsW1	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 16 and 17 and of the alliance reservation 1. The bike fulfils an important social function as a means of transport. It is necessary and positive that more people see the cycle as a useful means of transport because it has good effects on public health, the environment and urban congestion. Mr President, I would like to Increased cycling reduces greenhouse gas emissions in both small and large cities. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that it is important to continue the work of getting more people to choose the bike as a means of transport. Too many today choose the car instead of the bike as a means of short journeys of 5 to 10 kilometres. To break this trend, the traffic environment is important and needs to be adapted for cyclists so that fewer cyclists are injured or killed in traffic. Road safety is important in order to get more people to choose the bike as a means of transport and to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. There are more improvements to be made for cyclists in the urban environment to strengthen the bicycle's role as a means of transport: separate cycle paths, more coherent cycle paths and paths, adapted speed, rules that facilitate cycling and protect cyclists in traffic. Not least maintenance of bike paths are necessary efforts that make cycling more safe and improve accessibility. These are measures that will help more people to use the bike as a means of transport. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that today the traffic environment is not sufficiently adapted for cycling. Unfortunately, when other categories of road users suffer fewer deaths and serious accidents than before, the development is less favourable for cyclists. On average, 23 cyclists per year died in traffic during the period 2011-2015. The Christian Democrats want to continue to work to increase the safety of cyclists in traffic. More strategic and preventive work is needed to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. The Christian Democrats believe that the municipalities bear a great responsibility for taking measures to submit to bicycle traffic. It is important that municipalities work together to find common solutions for cycling routes and routes across municipal boundaries and that the Swedish Transport Administration can help with resources and co-financing. Mr President, I would like to Cycling has great development potential with both good environmental and climate effects and good health effects. The cycle must be seen more clearly as its own mode of transport. The development of bicycles needs to be given higher priority in urban planning and in infrastructure investments. It has been shown that when this happens cycling also increases significantly. The Christian Democrats are therefore investing SEK 350 million per year in a new grant for safe bicycle infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats propose to set up a study to create the possibility for employers to subsidise bicycle and public transport travel to and from work without it being considered a taxable wage benefit. Alternatively, a gross salary deduction for public transport tickets should be made possible. It is an excellent proposal to get more people to choose public transport or bicycle as a means of transport. This reduces CO2 emissions. The Christian Democrats also propose that an effort be made to disseminate information about the importance of cycling in different languages. In this effort, non-profit organisations should play a central role. In various ways, the state and associations should actively promote increased cycling among people who are not used to cycling. This applies mainly to children and young people as well as new Swedes. Many people need to be informed and trained to ride a bicycle instead of driving shorter distances. We propose that a special effort be made to promote cycling among young people and new Swedes and that this be financed within the framework of the new grant proposed by the Christian Democrats to promote increased cycling. Mr President, I would like to Today, along more and more roads, there are well-functioning cycle paths. In many places, however, cyclists still have to share their roads with motorists, resulting in a dangerous environment for cyclists in the event of overtaking. In this context, road safety must be improved. According to the Traffic Regulation, the driver who is driving must leave a safe lateral distance between the driver's vehicle and the vehicle being re-run. However, there is no specified measure of what is to be considered as a safe distance when overtaking a cyclist. This means that it is now up to every driver who makes a re-run to determine which distance is appropriate. The current regime creates unnecessary risks for cyclists. This needs to be addressed. Against this background, we believe that legislation on a safety distance is needed. The Christian Democrats propose that this distance be specified in the law to at least one and a half metres. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to agree with our joint alliance call for a concrete action plan to increase cycling throughout the country. We believe that the government needs to develop a concrete action plan during the current term of office for how this can be done. The Action Plan should be drawn up in dialogue with regions, municipalities and the bicycle industry. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' goal is more cyclists and fewer cars to reduce congestion in cities. This also contributes to better climate and health.
i-33300fa956e5098f-294	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism 5 on Bicycles. The report deals with 78 requests from the general exercise period. I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee. The question of cycling has indeed been raised during this parliamentary term for various reasons. We have a government that is sensitive to the interest in cycling. It also has to do with the national strategy that was developed just over a year ago and which has shown concrete measures to achieve results. When we had this debate last year, it was a great expectation of the cycle strategy, and now it has landed. There is more to do in the field of cycling. I thought I would describe some elements that I and we Social Democrats see as important issues for the future. I can also say that there are few separate questions about cycling. Everyone has the goal of getting more people to ride their bikes for several reasons: public health, road safety and the ability to move faster in the traffic environment. The cycling strategy points to five areas of intervention. We're going to lift the role of bicycle traffic in community planning. We have demonstrated this by giving concrete assignments aimed at developing a basis for this so that we can have a better knowledge bank on this. We will have an increased focus on groups of cyclists. Many have mentioned children and young people in this debate. I agree that this area should be a priority. For those of you who have not taken note of it, I can tell you that the VTI just before Christmas came up with a first interim report on the mission received from the government. They had looked at what it takes to stimulate more children and young people to cycle. They show a complex situation. It is about everything from safe environments to the possibility of cycling to leisure activities and linking this with facilities, placement and community building issues. They also showed clearly that it is necessary to break the trend that has existed for many years to transport children to activities in other ways, which is obviously related to the safety and safety, or insecurity, of the children. It is also about promoting a more functional and user-friendly infrastructure. This can be clearly seen. The bike promotion had a presentation for us in the Transport Committee and then explained how it looks with the spirit of the regional traffic plans that are now a basis for the infrastructure investment that we are doing. There you can see that there is a very strong demand for investment locally and regionally. The division of responsibilities is different. Today there is a shared responsibility, and above all this responsibility is local and regional. It is also about promoting safe cycling, and doing so better to make more people feel safe in traffic. And it is also about research and innovation. The Government has decided that the VTI will be the body responsible for cycling research, or at least is a resident for that matter. I look forward to this with excitement, because the employees at VTI are very good. We've met them in different contexts. There are a number of things that are now being referred, namely:
i-33300fa956e5098f-309	Many of these issues have been discussed in this debate. All of this has thus been out for a referral, and now they are working in the Government Office to compile the proposals and then come back on how to handle everything in the best way. What has also happened is that the e-bike premium will be established from 1 February 2018. I think it was Erik who, in his speech, addressed the e-bike premium in somewhat negative terms. But with the e-bike premium we will reach a whole new target group. I have close friends who have problems with different health conditions. They see the electric bike as an excellent way to transport. They are too shaky to be able to cycle in the usual way, but with a little electrical help they see an opportunity to get around in the traffic environment. Of course, this will impose demands on us as decision-makers – especially local representatives – when new housing environments are planned. Today, we have a very high level of housing pressure in the country, and this must also be incorporated into the investment in infrastructure in particular. Children and bicycles are perhaps one of the most pressing issues for the future. We need to get more young people to ride their bikes. Today there is a group of people who are cyclists. We see that this pressure is increasing every year, and the big exercise runs are getting faster and faster. This group must, of course, be replenished. It is then a question of starting to use the cycle at an early age. It is extremely valuable and essential to work with finding ways to make cycling easier for children and young people. Another target group is also important. We have received a large number of new arrivals in recent years. As someone mentioned earlier, they may not really have the same tradition of cycling, and this is especially true of women. Around the municipalities there are very good examples with different projects and activities to learn how to use a bike as a means of transportation. We also need to strengthen cooperation between the actors, and I think that a great deal has happened here. Today, there are various organisations-- I'm not going to name them-- who are very keen on the issue and who see the opportunity to succeed here. The public have also adopted this. I am thinking above all of Swedish Bicycle Cities, a successful organisation that drives these issues. We in Parliament meet them regularly to get a good picture of what is happening. Finally, I would also like to stress road safety as an urgent issue to continue working on. We must continue with the proposals that have been made and, of course, be sensitive to making more proposals to increase this part. We can never be satisfied as long as someone is killed in traffic. Unfortunately, the group of cyclists currently accounts for a high proportion. Mobility is also an issue that is very urgent. I believe that it will be highlighted even more in the future as collective travel increases. But this must be linked, and it applies to public transport as well as to bicycles and the possibility of getting to and from different travel centres and other things. We have a great responsibility here to ensure that there are resources and opportunities to deal with this. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-33300fa956e5098f-319	Mr President, I would like to Johan Andersson describes measures that are important in the future, and he points out that there is a great deal of commitment and that we agree on a lot. At the same time, I note that this report, in which there are very many proposals on concrete ways to improve road safety, infrastructure and regulation, has 22 reservations because we do not agree. This raises hopes when Johan Andersson says that we should invest and make changes for the future. But here are a number of examples where it is a little difficult to understand why you cannot start work now. If you read the report, you can see that, for example, the majority dismisses the issue of a certain distance when driving over a cyclist. It's about a mile and a half. I described that I myself have tested this in another country and that it works excellently there. Furthermore, there is no description of why other measures relating to roadworthiness or all-green or why one does not want to see cycling as one's own mode and mode of transport at all. My question to Johan Andersson is therefore: Why do you not want to raise the status of cycling? There was an announcement in 2015 in which it was very clear that it was a matter of raising the status as it affects legislation, regulations, follow-up etc. Why shouldn't you raise your status? I have one more question, and it concerns the simple measures that do not cost much. Why aren't you even prepared to look at this? For example, the report completely dismisses the issue of overtakings. Why are the measures that are already possible not being taken?
i-33300fa956e5098f-324	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that we have significantly increased the status of the mode of transport cycle in this part, not least with the national cycle strategy. The bourgeois government did some investigations. The bike investigation was a good investigation, as we have seen and read. But there wasn't much more after it. Now we have a bicycle strategy. That's exactly what it sounds like: a strategy. This means that concrete parts should then be refilled. Much of it has been presented, but there are still things that remain and that we are working on. I mentioned the five areas currently being prepared in the Government Office. This has been handled in the way things should be handled in a national perspective – it should be prepared for us to finally be able to make decisions in the right instance. This is exactly what is going on. The issue of overtaking is not currently up for treatment, as Nina says. But again: We have now given the conditions and opportunities to work much more with research and other parts. I assume that this will also produce results by showing which solutions are the best for the future. That is what we want to see in order to be able to make correct assessments and balances and make correct decisions.
i-33300fa956e5098f-327	Mr President, I would like to I take note of Johan Andersson's level of ambition. We are both very committed to the conditions of cycling. I welcome that. But somewhere, patience fails. My colleague Barbro Westerholm usually says that patience is your best friend. But now it's been a lot of years. I think there are low-hanging fruits. You could change some things quickly. It is about the regulations for which the Government is responsible and for which the Riksdag is responsible. For example, the report states that this is not an issue which has been the subject of a motion for a resolution. But here we have concrete proposals in motions that say: Let us now change the rules! I myself have tested one and a half meters of regulation in another country as both a cyclist and a motorist, and it works excellently. Why do we not dare in Sweden try a little more and make sure to go the way forward? I understand it costs money to build strings. It's about planning and ground access. But we have a lot of regulations and legislation that affect how the cyclist is viewed and how road safety, for example, works. It is about crossings, right turns, roadsides and a distance of one and a half meters. Why not start taking measures to improve road safety? I don't think there are such complicated issues to change. It is clear that you are very disappointed as a cyclist when everyone talks about that this is important but there are no concrete measures. I would like to hear from Johan Andersson when such will come. Now you have been in government since 2014. This should be possible to change very quickly. When is it appropriate to do so? I can now see that you are once again rejecting proposals that could make a direct difference.
i-33300fa956e5098f-330	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Nina for the questions. I would like to remind you of the missions we have left. The VTI has been commissioned to look at children's and young people's cycling, as we mentioned earlier. This was delivered to the government in December. A mandate has been given to describe the main needs of cycling research and to develop proposals on how bicycle research can be coordinated and strengthened. This will hopefully lead to proposals on what needs to be done in order to bring this together in one place but also concrete proposals on what things are going to happen. It is very much about methods for measuring cycling traffic. Even that mission has now been delivered. If we measure and have statistics to follow, we can see how developments are taking place with regard to accidents, traffic environments and other things. It is about distributing money to non-profit organisations, as we did in 2017, for information and education efforts that promote increased and safe cycling. It is also, as I was on, about the mission to Boverket to get cycling into community planning, which is hugely important when we are building as we do in the country. My answer to your question is very clear, Nina. It requires that we have a good basis when we make decisions. I'm very hopeful. With these investigations, we will provide good evidence that enables us to make correct choices. With the consensus that I feel there is with regard to bicycle policy, I am not at all concerned. We will find the best solutions together in this House.
i-33300fa956e5098f-334	Mr President, I would like to I came home very recently from a study trip in the Netherlands, where I had the honour and the joy of visiting some of the world's best cycling cities: Groningen, Utrecht, The Hague, Rotterdam and of course Amsterdam. It was a real joy to try out what it's like to cycle in such a successful bicycle country as the Netherlands. I also had the opportunity to bring my bike down. I have a folding bike that I can take on the train from Stockholm all the way down, so I could cycle everywhere, wherever I was. Groningen and Utrecht I would like to highlight in particular. In terms of the proportion of journeys by bicycle, Groningen is the world's best city with 61 percent. Utrecht is currently building the world's largest bicycle garage. I start by talking about this because you can get a lot of inspiration from the Netherlands. The Netherlands has done almost everything right in its bicycle policy since the 1970s. It was clear that even then they started working towards the goal that cycling should be the norm and the natural way to transport themselves if you do not go. This has simply been achieved, and I find it fascinating. Something that is noticed in the Netherlands and that research is also very clear about is what huge social benefits there are with cycling. Of course, there will be fresher air – if more people put the car and take the bike, we will get better air quality. Of course, we get less congestion, and congestion is a problem that we have in several of the large Swedish cities. There are simply too many people who take the car when they can take the bike instead. Lower climate emissions are a matter of course. It is the fate of the world, and cycling can play an important role there. Cycling provides better health and better finances for individuals. And just such a basic thing as that you actually get happier by moving and cycling! All these benefits are seen in the Netherlands, and as soon as you see that cycling increases, you can see that much of this comes as a letter in the mail. When I was in the Netherlands, I asked around. We met the Mayor of Groningen, among other things, and I asked if there was a resistance to this development in the 1970s, when the car was shut out and the bike was given as an alternative. Yes, there was, I was told. Large parts of the business community were very concerned that this might lead to that they did not get any customers because the customers did not arrive at their stores. However, as development improved and improved in the area of cycling, it gradually became apparent that the whole of society began to shift – from skeptical to the spread of the bike and the limitation of car traffic to wanting just that. If you ask traders in Groningen today, they say unison: front for the bike and stop the car! I find that an exciting development. Finally, once the opportunity is given for development in this area, it is welcomed by everyone, although it may be a bit of a fuss at the beginning. Mr President, I would like to Let me get into some of the areas of political development that I see as particularly important! The first is something that many have already touched upon, namely regulatory simplification. It is about the cycle simply being the norm for certain types of travel. Today it is known as a cyclist that many traffic rules are designed in the 60's when the car was the norm. It was the rules of the car that were allowed to apply to other road users as well. It is a shift that we now need to make. It can be things that make it easier to be a cyclist. For example, it may be to be able to turn right when there are no pedestrians but it is red light. It's one of those things that would make life easier for us as a bicycle. It is a question of compulsory air travel rules, all-green, which several have mentioned, and of making it clearer when separating pedestrians and cyclists from each other. These are generally regulatory changes to make bicycles the norm for different types of transport. The second area I would like to mention is land and infrastructure. Usually when you talk about cycling and challenges, you mention such things as safety. It usually boils down to the fact that the challenges that exist are solved most easily through an infrastructure that works and is clear. Here we have a long way to go to reach the same levels as the prominent cycling cities in the Netherlands or for that matter in Denmark. It is about having generally better infrastructure. But it is also about easier access to land for bicycle infrastructure. Today, municipalities and regions have problems in exploiting bicycle infrastructure because bicycle routes are not counted as a separate road law. This is something that will in the long term be absolutely crucial for us to have the infrastructure that all cyclists deserve. The last area I would like to mention is road safety, which many have touched upon. I have just mentioned that, for the sake of road safety, infrastructure is by far the most crucial. I want to put in a brack here and be very clear about one thing: It's more dangerous not to ride a bike than to ride a bike. We should not exaggerate the dangers of cycling. There are about 20 times the health benefits of cycling in terms of the small possible risks you face as a cyclist. That is a basis for the discussion. It is very healthy, healthy and positive to cycle regardless of the small risks that exist. Nevertheless, a large part of the debate when talking about cycling is that safety would be central. It is felt that there is uncertainty regardless of the figures behind it. Here too, there is potential for development. As I've been into it, it's a lot about pushing the car into the gate. It is about ensuring that the infrastructure is safe and well maintained. To take the Netherlands as an example again, among other things, they have worked very hard to bring down the speed of car traffic and make sure that you have many bike streets d is the bike is simply the norm and the cars have to adapt their pace and everything like that and have the need to fly all the time for cyclists. There's a lot more you could do, but I choose to stay there. The government has taken on the bicycle issues this term of office. We saw a rather passive alliance government for eight years. Now we see that the government has shown a will-oriented approach to bicycle issues. The things that have been best and most crucial in this parliamentary term are, first and foremost, the urban environment agreements. It is a clever state grant where the state goes in with certain funds and also receives something back from the municipality. The state co-finances infrastructure or public transport, and the municipality promises to take urban-environment-enhancing measures. Now you can also search for bicycle infrastructure. The e-bike premium is an excellent solution for those who live a little further from the city. We know that Stockholm, for example, has 110 000 people who live at a cycling distance of half an hour from their jobs. There are 110 000 people who could put the car today and take a bike. Many may not be able, willing or able to take a regular bicycle. Then the electric bike is a very good option when they live in the suburbs and feel that they do not really have the energy to take a regular bike. The cycling strategy is available. There is more to do here, but it is a good foundation to build on. I'll end with things where I expect more from the government. It's about the speed, which I've been into before. It has been announced, and I hope that it will soon be taken forward. We have the previous decision from the Riksdag to be able to cycle in the street, which is also central. I also expect the government that announced to come forward with a proposal. We have what I've been into with ground access, bike streets and the like. I note that the day before yesterday traffic analysis came with its proposal on how to measure bicycle traffic and how to possibly set a target for increased cycling. You have to look at it to see how to move on with it. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-33300fa956e5098f-355	Mr President, I would like to It's exciting to listen to Lorentz Tovatt. Many of us have our own experiences of travelling in other countries. I welcome the fact that many of the Members of this House are looking together at the other countries. However, the Riksdag now has the opportunity to take decisions on concrete measures. It's somewhere a little sad in this context. There are very many good suggestions. In this report, there are proposals for objectives and starting points for increased cycling, the cycle as its own means of transport, infrastructure for increased cycling, the coloring of cycle paths, increased road safety, safety distances for cycling by cyclists, training and efforts to increase cycling for children and adults and the facilitation of combined cycling. Lorentz Tovatt demonstrates that there is an ambition level. Once again, I note that there are 22 reservations. Some of the questions do not really even have budget bonuses. It is about legislation, regulations and re-signing. One of my questions to Mr Lorentz is: when are concrete proposals coming? The announcements date from 2015. The national cycling strategy did not come to any concrete conclusion, but was ambitious. Here again, there are concrete measures to improve for cyclists. That is what is being done in other countries such as the Netherlands, Denmark and Spain. Even in New York, where I was recently looking at their bicycle system, concrete measures are being taken. Why doesn't the Green Party want cycling to be seen as its own form of traffic and transport and to raise the status of cycling? Why do you say no to that?
i-33300fa956e5098f-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Nina Lundström, and for your commitment to the questions! I've read your exercise and think you have many good suggestions and points. I very much sympathise with what you are saying. As Nina Lundström well knows, the government works so that it works actively and effectively in the government. The Green Party has done that. We've made big changes. Some of them I have already mentioned. It is the urban environment agreements and the e-bike premium that are crucial. There are some concrete changes in the cycle strategy and in the rule-pm that belonged. As far as I am aware, some of the crucial issues of base speed and cycling in the street are being addressed within the Government Office. I am sure there will be more. In addition, I mentioned that the cycling strategy should be seen as a basis. There's something to work on. It is clear to the government when it writes in its cycling strategy that it will provide the basis for further work to increase cycling and make it safer. I'm not worried about that. I have confidence in what is to come in this area.
i-33300fa956e5098f-364	Mr President, I would like to I noted, as I said in the previous debate, that, for example, when the report states that the distance from the re-run of a cyclist has not been the subject of a proposal, I am very confused. Today we have concrete motions for resolutions which you wish to reject. It is a very concrete suggestion. There is commitment, and there are quite simple measures to be taken to improve road safety. It's about how you behave at a intersection and being able to leave a narrow road to cycle on the road track so that as a cyclist you don't get pushed out in a ditch. It is about the issue of safety distances, which I have mentioned and which I myself tested just a few weeks ago in another country both as a cyclist and as a motorist. So I've tried and seen how it works. It works fine, because with this you do not overtakes at the risk of meeting a car and to push out cyclists and put them in danger. I know that there is a budgetary system and that we have different budgetary frameworks. Liberals have set aside more money than the Green Party. We also think that we should have a separate grant. I fully understand that when you plan bicycle infrastructure, it causes a lot of trouble. But there are also regulations and legislation that we can afford here. Many in the committee are committed to amending this legislation. However, when the proposals are here, we will not be able to make it. It does not cost much money to put up other signs. Why, then, cannot we agree that this is important to implement? This is what I think many cyclists out there feel: why can't you just make this decision so that we get increased road safety and new signs saying that you should really protect cyclists? I don't understand that.
i-33300fa956e5098f-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the questions and comments, Nina Lundström! On one point, I want to correct you. It's about the Liberals spending more money. That is not true, because the Liberals are withdrawing the urban environment agreements from their budget. I very much regret that, because it is a very important initiative that makes a big difference for many municipalities that want to invest in a better urban environment and that want to invest in precisely bicycle infrastructure. As for the further work, I can promise Nina Lundström that I will continue to work for several of the things I have talked about today. I am convinced that the cycling strategy will be seen as a good basis for this. In addition to what I mentioned in my speech, Traffic analysis now comes with its proposal on how to measure bicycle traffic in the future and how to possibly introduce national targets for increased cycling. I believe that this work will also be important. If the government goes ahead with a national target, it will also force action and a discussion that looks at measures to achieve an increase in cycling. I think we now have a good foundation, and I'm excited to continue the work in the future.
i-33300fa956e5098f-372	Mr President, I would like to It was a very committed speech by Green Party representative Lorentz Tovatt with many interesting Central European experiences and perspectives that were presented. I am absolutely convinced that we can draw much knowledge that way. But now, Mr President and friends, Lorentz Tovatt represents one of two government parties – the Green Party. The cooperation government sits here and now preparing the national transport plan to be decided on a cold Thursday morning at the end of March or the beginning of April. It's usually sometime then. It is about allocating just over SEK 700 billion for the transport infrastructure in our country for the period 2018 – 2029. SEK 700 billion – that's an enormous amount of money! What concrete impressions, Mr President and Mr Lorentz, of the enthusiasm expressed by Mr Lorentz will we see in the national transport plan? I am thinking of impressions such as the 2010 Kattegat Trail of the Alliance Government – the first concrete initiative in a national plan for a bicycle infrastructure to connect urban areas on the west coast. In what concrete proposals and actions will enthusiasm be reflected? Or is it just, like the bicycle strategy, a beautiful collection of words?
i-33300fa956e5098f-375	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the question! As Anders Åkesson very well knows, I will not be able to go into detail on what comes in the national plan because it is not decided on. However, I can discuss it and talk about what is in the proposal from the Finnish Transport Administration. What I can say directly is that for the first time there is a specific bicycle pot in the national plan. It has not existed before, nor in the previous national plans of alliance governments. The bike pool is 1 1⁄2 billion. We know we're going to need more money than that. However, there are also two specific bicycle trails named in the national plan. If you started with one, we'll follow up with two. So there are things already there. In addition to this, I would like to send a question back to Anders Åkesson, who is passionate about these issues and who comes from a green party: Why do you choose to drastically reduce the urban environment agreements that the government has introduced? We have taken Norway as a model for these agreements, and they have worked very well in the work to develop more bicycle infrastructure. This is money that has been in the state budget but which will also now be transferred into the national plan. This will be an answer to the question, in addition to the specific bicycle pool that comes with the urban environment agreements and which will be rolling by 1 billion a year in the national plan. This is money which the Center Party has previously deleted from its budgets and which you halve in your autumn budget. The question is therefore turned back: why does Anders Åkesson want to cut back on funding for bicycle infrastructure?
i-33300fa956e5098f-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your reply, Lorentz Tovatt! But I thought I didn't get an answer to my question. It was an enthusiastic talk, speech and speech with many impressions from Central Europe and around the world. However, I note that in the report we are dealing with at the moment, Mr Lorentz, the government parties reject more than 20 concrete proposals to improve, simplify and make cycling safer for people. We want to make it easier to do the right thing. It's about pretty simple things, like it's supposed to be the same color on the bike crossings when they cross a road. Today it may be a blue mark in one municipality and one red in another. All of this adds to confusion. Tjoff – the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party delete this! It was useless, they think. If the will and enthusiasm that I felt was expressed in the speech is translated into concrete action, we should be much more sensitive to concrete, free and simple proposals. Mr President, I would like to The urban environment agreements are essentially a matter of moving money – just over 1 billion if I remember correctly – from a grant for transport infrastructure and directing it towards, in particular, railway solutions in urban areas. It won't give you much; I don't think even Lorentz Tovatt thinks so. What concrete footprints for cycling – for that is what we are discussing here and now – will we see in the national proposal? The Finnish Transport Administration made a proposal. It has been out for a referral, and there have been many comments. You have to make decisions.
i-33300fa956e5098f-383	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Anders Åkesson might have missed my answer just now. I was very specific about what is in the national plan. I mentioned, among other things, that for the first time ever there is a special bicycle pot. I also mentioned that there are two named results in contrast to what has previously been in the Alliance's national plans. In addition to that, I mentioned that we are introducing urban agreements permanently in the national plan. These are three concrete things that Anders might have missed when I mentioned them in a previous speech. I have to correct Anders Åkesson in substance when it comes to the urban environment agreements. In the last round of applications, I believe that up to half of all applications were about bicycle infrastructure. So we get bicycle infrastructure in two different ways with the urban environment agreements. The first is that it will be an additional measure in return for the municipality. The state goes in and says: We build a tram line or a bus line here. What are you doing to earn this money? The municipality then answers: We improve our urban environment by, for example, building new bicycle trails. In addition to this, you can apply directly as a municipality for bicycle infrastructure. That's the other thing. Anders Åkesson will need to go home and read about how the urban environment agreements work. It is a clever invention that I am very pleased that the Green Party has pushed through. I would like to send the ball back again, because it sounds to Anders Åkesson that everything in terms of transport policy and cycling is decided during this parliamentary term. Anders Åkesso n has been a center party for a long time. The Alliance ran for eight years, and almost nothing happened during the eight years. There has been much more for four years with S and MP in the government, so it will be another homework for Anders Åkesson to think about: What did we do, and what could we have done better? And, of course, what do we do together in the future?
i-33300fa956e5098f-386	Mr President, I would like to Lorentz also represents the government, as the Green Party is part of the government, and has decided on a bicycle premium that is highlighted here in the speech. It is SEK 350 million, which for perio from 2018 to 2020 will be over SEK 1 billion as a contribution to private individuals with approximately SEK 10 000 to buy an electric bike. It is a very populist and wrong initiative, we believe from the Christian Democrats. There are many other things to do to get more people to choose to ride a bike. I said in my speech that on behalf of the Christian Democrats we set aside over SEK 350 million to get more people to ride their bikes and to work on bike promotion issues. I also said that we from the KD want an investigation into creating the opportunity for employers to subsidise bicycle and public transport trips precisely to get more people to use bicycle and public transport as means of transport to reduce emissions and so on. Mr President, I would like to My question to Lorentz is: Do you think that this premium of SEK 1 billion from tax money that will go to individuals who already can afford – those who want to buy electric bicycles do so, and the sale goes quite well without this premium – is the right bet from the government?
i-33300fa956e5098f-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Halef, for the question. I am not 100% sure, but I believe that this investment is in three years, that is 350 million over three years as a total sum. I don't think it's a total of 1 billion. I am not entirely sure about that, but I will ask to come back to that question. I think this is a great bet. What we could see immediately when it was introduced was a 230% increase in the number of electric bicycles. It says something about demand in this area. When I talk about cycling I talk partly about increased cycling but also about cycling as an alternative to the car. You should remember that. We have to get people to set up their car and instead take the bike. That's a win-win for everyone. The crowd and everything else are affected, and I have mentioned this in my speech. We know that there are those who live in the suburbs – let's take Bromma as an example where there are many families with young children – and have about 40 minutes' drive into town with their car. If they were to sit on an electric bike, they would halve their commuting time. There's a huge potential there. I do not think that everyone has understood the super potential of people who live in the suburbs and who commute can choose to set the car and instead take an electric bike. I think that's a great measure. We have looked at Norway, which is a good example of this. They have introduced such an e-bike premium, and it has gone very well there. It has been seen that sales have increased significantly, and you can clearly see that many of those who choose to use such a premium then choose to set the car. So we can see a transfer from car to electric bicycle, and that benefits society as a whole.
i-33300fa956e5098f-394	Mr President, I would like to I do not share the view that this particular initiative has contributed to increased sales of electric bicycles, but sales are going very well as there is interest. So it does not have to be financed with 1 050 million in three years, where you take tax money and give it to individuals to buy electric bicycles – people who at least buy this electric bike if they want to. This billion could be used for other purposes to increase and secure cycling in the country, such as investing more in road maintenance. As has been said, regulatory changes could also be made to encourage more people to cycle and to increase road safety for cyclists and so on. My question is: Do you, Mr Lorentz, not think it would have been better to invest in the Christian Democrats' proposal to enable employers to subsidise, to deduct bicycle and public transport journeys, such as public transport tickets? Is it not a better way to get more people to choose public transport and cycle these short distances that we are talking about instead of spending 1 050 million in three years for individuals who had already planned to buy an electric bicycle? This you thought would be a success during the Christmas trade, but it turned out to be a fiasco, based on what you've seen on the news. Per Bolund was interviewed with some companies selling electric bicycles, and the aggravation you had expected did not happen because those who are already interested in electric bicycles can afford to buy one anyway. This billion could do much more in health care and in care for the elderly or go to more police and other things.
i-33300fa956e5098f-398	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Halef, for the line shift! First of all, I will say that the 230% increase was only the first month. It is true, as Robert Halef says, that there has been an increased interest in electric cycling even before, which has increased sales. But such a marked increase has not taken place in the past, but this is something exceptional according to the industry, which is pleased to see that interest in this is exploding. I would like to go back to the issue of urban development. We should be aware from a Swedish perspective that Swedish cities are rather sparse. They are built quite a lot with American cities as a model – you sparse out the city building and move out suburbs and suburbs outside the city. This means that we get a different kind of travel pattern, which creates a lot of problems for us, because it makes people become car addicts. I believe that we should be humbled by the fact that our cities are not like the cities of the Netherlands. I have, of course, paid a lot of tribute to the Netherlands in my speech, and there are very good things to do in the Netherlands. But we should also be aware that we have longer commuting distances than most people who live in the Netherlands because we have fewer cities. This means that people who live in, for example, Nacka, Värmdö, the suburbs or suburbs of other Swedish cities have another challenge when it comes to commuting by bicycle. Many may not be able to do so with a regular bicycle, but they may need a little push along the way. Then an e-bike is a very good option. Therefore, I believe that this investment is right and that we will see a further increase in the sales of electric bicycles, which will benefit us all in that it will lead to better health, less congestion and better economy.
i-33300fa956e5098f-402	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has also submitted a reservation about bicycle as its own mode of transport. It is important that the Swedish Transport Administration is given a clearer assignment for a bicycle because the car has been dominant for so long. The officials who have remained at Trafikverket since Trafikverket was redesigned have had the most knowledge about motorism and not so much about the other traffic laws. Therefore, it is important now in climate times that we strengthen the assignment to the Swedish Transport Administration. After all, we see very strong weather events around the world. A new report just arrived that coral reefs in all the oceans of the world are dying. It's scary. There is little talk about it in the news, but that is what is happening because the carbon dioxide levels in the oceans change and there is more oxygen. We are faced with an acute situation, as many of us, not least from the Left Party, often point out in this pulpit. That is why we really need to strengthen these modes of transport. And bikes are very smart. It is a cheap mode of transport, it reaches all income groups and it is a cheaper infrastructure. I would also like to take Groningen as an example. A friend of mine from Groningen cycled here to Sweden in the 80s and visited me when I worked on an island out in the archipelago. He then continued to Norway. It was quite unusual to cycle so far at that time. But now I understand why; Holland has worked with cycling for a long time. Groningen has such a bicycle planning that it is faster to cycle in the city than to travel by car. It has been planned that the roads should be constructed in such a way, and there are a number of instruments that mean that bicycles should be promoted in front of cars. As far as public transport is concerned, the same applies in Freiburg. It has also made it more difficult for cars, which gives a lever effect over against public transport. It is very important to look at these examples in order to quickly get the strong steering that we need. It's about our survival, about our civilization and about us being able to have this planet as it is now. It's about not having to go in sacks and ashes. This isn't about us living cheaply now. It is about well-being, quality of life and health instead of sacks and ashes a little later on. Remember that! I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2, which highlights the cycle as its own mode of transport. I would also like to point out that the Left Party has contributed a little bit to the urban environment agreements, precisely with the Freiburg model. We want to see a counterpart, that the use of cars should be reduced in the cities. It is important to rethink the planning of urban infrastructure in order to have the leverage effect. We think it is a good urban environment agreement. It is important to strengthen them and to give a lot of money to that work.
i-33300fa956e5098f-411	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Emma Wallrup is also committed to cycling. I also note that the Left Party has also pushed the issue of raising the status of cycling. At the same time, with this report, we can see that it will not be that way. It is said that the 2015 announcement has been completed. I do not know how the Left Party has been able to influence this issue. However, there are other things in the report that Emma Wallrup did not say anything about but that I am interested in, such as issues that do not have a direct budget bearing and are about amending regulations and regulations. It should really be quite easy for the government and the parliament to do so. What is Emma Wallrup's view on the fact that important issues relating to road safety are not reflected in this report? I have mentioned the smallest distance when overtaking a cyclist, the possibility of making it clear that you do not need to use a very narrow road because it is not safe for the cyclist to be overtaken there, crossings, right turn and much more. What does Emma Wallrup, who supports the government, intend to do to push for such changes? They should be easy to implement. I say again: there are 22 reservations in the report, with lots of concrete proposals. Some proposals are dismissed by the fact that they have not been the subject of a motion, which they have been presented here in Parliament. What does Emma Wallrup intend to do to move forward on these issues?
i-33300fa956e5098f-417	Mr President, I would like to I thank Nina Lundström for the question. That's a very good question. We should definitely look at those things in the future. We have looked a little more at the target control at Trafikverket and previously reserved us, because we want to give Trafikverket a clearer goal for increased cycling and that then you should review the overall picture. Now Trafikanalyse will develop a goal that we can work towards. That's a good thing. They will be able to do an analysis, and then you can go into details. I agree that this could have been done now. It is good that Nina Lundström is active and is on. I would like to highlight a feminist issue with regard to road safety in this debate. Several of these measures are important, but it is also important to discuss how men make their way in cycling. In Stockholm, many citizens complain that there are men competing in arriving on the streets, and that is a traffic hazard. Women don't dare ride a bike, pensioners get hit by a car and so on. It is also an important issue in the context of road safety that we need to have the courage to discuss. We're going to promote cycling. It's good that those men choose to ride a bike. But you have to take it into consideration. There must be a debate on that. It cannot be that female cyclists are frightened away. I know of several women who have stopped cycling because of negligence in traffic. That's part of it, too. In this discussion you need to look at the measures that Nina Lundström brings forward. I therefore welcome this discussion. But we are waiting for a broader discussion on those measures.
i-33300fa956e5098f-422	Mr President, I would like to There will be another possibility in the spring. We are going to deal with the letter on the national plan. Speaking of previous discussions on the Liberals' budget, I would like to remind you that the Liberals had 1 billion more in the national plan than the government had. We had 623.5 billion, and the extra pot was about cycling. I am critical of the urban environment agreements, which Emma Wallrup also mentioned in her speech. If you go in and look at them you can see that there were 48 applications in 2017. 34 of them were granted. And what kind of action was it about? There were some bicycle measures in some municipalities. But there were also bus stops, public transport measures, mobile communication solutions for buses, travel centres, noise and much more. Liberals want a clear pot in the budget so that you can follow up how the funds have been spent. Our criticism of the urban environment agreements has been that these are all possible short-term measures and that they run on a budget basis. And in the past, it was not known exactly how much money would be set aside. If you want to see a bicycle as your own mode or mode of transport – regardless of the concept used – we believe that a budget should also be set aside, which can be followed up so that it can be seen what it looks like. We all know that all types of measures relating to infrastructure – planning measures and interventions – are long-term. I would therefore like to ask Emma Wallrup: there are so many proposals here, and we will have the opportunity to deal with this again in the spring. What does the Left Party, which actually supports the government's budget, intend to do in order for it to lead to concrete measures that make a difference in practice? What we have seen so far has not led to anything.
i-33300fa956e5098f-428	Mr President, I would like to What we have done has led to a lot of changes. We have got the urban environment agreements in place, and there are a lot of bike ventures in them. So much more is happening than in previous years. One important thing is that the Swedish Transport Administration is given a clearer assignment. I agree with Nina Lundström that the bike should become a separate traffic team. Also in the case of two-plus-one routes, a clearer assignment should be given to the Finnish Transport Administration. It's about cycling in the countryside. When a road is rebuilt, consider that children should be able to cycle to the next door. It is also about the possibility of outdoor life by bicycle in rural areas in areas where roads are rebuilt with a view to road safety. It is a question that the Left Party has been pushing for a long time. It is important that a clearer rule and a clearer mission if it is in place. We'll look at this very carefully. We will include it in the action plan and continue to follow it. For us, cycling is an incredibly important issue, precisely because it concerns all income classes. Bicycles are by far the best means of transport on short distances but, if you want to cycle far, even on long distances.
i-33300fa956e5098f-432	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Lorentz's speech and his fascination with cycling in the Netherlands. I, too, was on the field trip as a bunch of environmentalists did. Of course, one can draw inspiration from the Netherlands, not least with regard to two important things. It is about the speed of the towns and cities, and it is about the possibility of taking the bike on the train. That is exactly the two things I have raised about several times in Parliament, so also on this report. These proposals are dealt with in the report. We took the train to Amsterdam. I noticed that it had not been a problem for me to take my bike to Amsterdam, that is, my usual three-speed women's bike from Värmland. The problem would have been getting the bike down to Copenhagen. Through Sweden you cannot take a bike on the train. It is no wonder to take the bike on the train in Europe. There is an EU directive that says that passengers should have the opportunity to do so. The report shows that the European Commission has proposed to tighten up the directive. It will be even easier for travellers to take their bike on the train. It is high time that we in Sweden started to comply with the directive, that the government said to all train companies that it should be possible for passengers to take the bike. Mr President, I would like to Next to having good bike infrastructure, safe and good bike paths, to get more people to cycle in our urban areas, it's actually about speed. When we visited Groningen, Utrecht, The Hague and Amsterdam in Holland, the speed was 30 kilometres an hour where there were cyclists, pedestrians and cars in the same place. Transport has known since the 1990s that it is the speed at which motorists, cyclists and pedestrians can communicate safely, and deaths and accidents are decreasing among vulnerable road users, cyclists and pedestrians. The Finnish Transport Agency should be given the task of introducing that speed. The government has asked Traffic Analysis to look at the possibility of lowering the speed of bae in urban areas from 50 kilometres per hour today to another speed. Traffic analysis, hearing and astounding, which made its proposal last autumn, thinks that the speed should be reduced to 40 instead of 30. The explanatory statement shows the following, and I jumped to it when I saw it: Choosing 40 kilometres as a base speed, instead of 30 kilometres per hour, is one way of counteracting the travel time losses that a substantial drop to 30 kilometres per hour would probably mean. This report has shown that in several cases a speed limit of 30 kilometres per hour has a greater positive effect on, for example, road safety and safety, which, in combination with a changing urban environment, can lead to more cycling and walking. Although Trafikanalys himself says this, it is suggested 40 kilometers because motorists would miss a few minutes in travel time. I hope that the government, unlike Traffic Analysis, makes another choice for these traffic groups so that we get a safe urban and urban environment for our children and vulnerable road users.
i-33300fa956e5098f-441	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by endorsing the Moderates' reservation No 7. We stress that we find it unfortunate that the Postal Law investigation has missed the perspective of how law enforcement authorities should have the opportunity to conduct reconnaissance and take action against the smuggling of, for example, drugs and weapons in postal services. It is a priority, for example, for internal security, law enforcement in general and security in particular, that we can control what is moving across our borders and within our borders in postal transport. There should not be major obstacles for our law enforcement authorities to prevent drug trafficking taking place under our noses or, for that matter, trafficking in illegal weapons. The postal issue is, to say the least, topical in today's general debate. The past year has brought high swells in the discussion where quality has been discussed. The question has been asked as to whether it can really be trusted that the post will arrive. The common message of the Moderates and the Alliance is that the post will be delivered. The post office should be complete, and it should arrive at the right time. There are discussions on how to ensure the long-term survival and functioning of the post office in a digitised world. This is an important discussion for us to take. Instead, when more and more consignments can be digitised, the basis for carrying out robust activities such as Postnord and other market players is reduced. It's perfectly understandable. Digitalisation of society means great benefits that we must not lose, of course. The major challenge facing politics and active companies is how to ensure a long-term function in the postal sector. It is not an easy task. It is not something that is solved in a lunch seminar, but it is a long and persistent effort to ensure that quality is maintained at any given stage along the long path of development. We Moderates are not naive in any way. We realise that this will be difficult, and we realise that some of the measures taken by the government, for example, with the abolition of overnight transport and the adjustment of postage prices, are inevitable when one pulls out the trend in the direction of the key. This does not mean that the measures are unproblematic, and that does not mean that one can only take these measures. There are effects that may seem unforeseen. I heard yesterday, for example, about assistance companies that will report their business to Försäkringskassan in order to receive compensation for the work they have done at the end of the month. This work is made impossible in practice because of the abolition of the overnight transport requirement. The window that companies have to collect information about the work that has been done during the last month and hand over to Försäkringskassan is so small that it is not possible to do with ordinary mail. Instead, they have to hire people who go around to the employees to collect the information and then, hopefully, have time to compile and send in to the Social Insurance Agency. This is a real threat to this form of activity and something that needs to be resolved. Long-term development can of course be facilitated by technological innovations, by new innovative solutions and probably much of automation. It's not alone in any way. We must be humble in view of the fact that this form of new innovation requires a great deal of foresight and a start-up period. For example, we can note that the quality of the sorting of mail has had some problems when sorting has been automated in terminals. There are also examples that letters have been lost to a greater extent. Of course, everyone involved here must be on their toes. What time horizon we are moving into the development of new solutions is difficult to say. What time horizon we are moving with when it comes to digitalisation and how fast the transition from paper to digital mail is taking place is also difficult to say. The only thing we can be sure of is that it's coming. The only thing we can be sure of is that the task of maintaining a robust postal system under these conditions is difficult. Nevertheless, I feel that there is quite a broad consensus in this House that we must help to do this. We must help to problematise, and we must help to look constructively and turn all the stones around. But our important task is to create the conditions for the various actors in the postal market to maintain quality and security of supply. I hope for a further constructive debate on this issue.
i-33300fa956e5098f-452	Mr President, I would like to Imagine a school class with a teacher who is commissioned by the principal to ensure that all students are approved in Swedish. Suppose that the teacher returns to the vice-chancellor after a year to report off and announces that the class has on average been approved in Swedish. Should the headmaster assume that the teacher has fulfilled his assignment? Of course not. An average is an average, and it can hide large individual differences. In the class example, it may just as well be that all students have been approved as a small part have been very well approved while the majority has been rejected. It's a mistake to think all students are the same. Therefore, no sensible principal who looks after each student would approve such a arrangement. But the government does. As far as postal services are concerned, this is exactly how it is done. Postnord has a universal postal assignment. This assignment includes requirements for delivery times for letters and consignments. Postnord presents figures for how many letters will arrive the following day – so-called overnight transport – and how many will arrive after three days. These are the figures for the country's average. So there is nothing to say about geographical differences. These figures have turned out to be very different from those of independent review. Not only is Postnord in independent surveys worse than its own results – it does not even meet the statutory requirement! The independent surveys also show that there is a difference in service level between different parts of Sweden. This means that even if Postnord's figures are correct, it may still be that the company does not reach the statutory level in large parts of the country. With today's quality assurance, we can't know. This, Mr President, seems to us to be a problem that is perhaps greater than the general deterioration of the postal service. The general problems at least strike everyone equally hard. Rural areas have enough challenges, and a non-functioning postal service must not be the nail in the coffin for even more rural people. That is why we believe it is of the utmost importance that the Government and the Minister receive the basis they need to be able to evaluate Postnord and that the Riksdag supports our desire for a geographically divided evaluation of the results from Postnord. Mr President, I would like to We agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 2.
i-33300fa956e5098f-463	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the responsible Minister, Peter Eriksson, is in the Chamber when we discuss his area and proposal. It's really fun and good. Mr President and friends. In line with increased globalisation and very fast-growing digitalisation, the postal infrastructure and how letters and packages are handled have become the focus because people and companies need to be able to send and receive goods and goods from different parts of the country and the world. This was particularly noticed with the arrival of packages to Arlanda last Christmas and New Year holidays, to take just one example. It is not at Arlanda you want to open the Christmas package; it is probably in your home. Well-functioning postal services are still and will continue to be very important for people and businesses across the country to be able to stay and develop and grow. Therefore, good access to high-quality postal services, which include, among other things, daily dividends, is crucial for people to be able to perceive it as possible to stay and operate throughout the country. The Center Party will never accept the split-up of the country. Postal activities – mail, parcel and newspaper distribution – must work well throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to In this debate, I would like to highlight two perspectives which, as a centre party, I think are of particular importance when discussing this. It is the co-distribution of mail, packages and newspapers, to which the bill opens. That's good. The second is the need for a more transparent and efficient postal and parcel market. As far as the co-distribution of mail and newspapers is concerned, we all know that the volume of both newspapers and mail is falling, but not for packages. There is reason to improve the efficiency of management and distribution. Then increased opportunities for co-distribution of letters, packages and newspapers are a good way forward. It will promote both time and cost efficiency. As a bonus, it has a positive environmental impact as overall less transport needs to be carried out. I would also like to believe that the co-distribution of newspapers and mail helps to maintain a better service in the form of greater accessibility and service both in rural and urban areas. The joint distribution should of course take place according to the logic of the newspaper distributor, i.e. in the morning. If, through the co-distribution of mail, packages and newspapers, we provide the basis for maintaining high-quality daily distribution throughout the country, it will bring benefits for democracy and the environment, and we will resist the disintegration of the country. Mr President, I would like to To the question of an efficient and open postal market. In order to promote the efficiency of the postal market, the Center Party considers that all postal operators must have access to the postal infrastructure, including postal numbers. Postal code system is an important part of the infrastructure supporting postal services. This affects not only postal operators but also a number of other players, such as companies in the rapidly growing sectors of e-commerce and digital services. The purpose of the Center Party's proposal is to facilitate competition and the establishment of new businesses. We must also have the ability to look ahead. The current regulation of the postal code system is not fully adapted to the current situation and risks hindering the development of an otherwise expansionary service sector. The issue has been dealt with by the inquiry that preceded the government proposal we are dealing with today. According to my view and that of the Center Party, the postal law investigation dealt with the question of access to the postal code system in sufficient detail to enable it to proceed with a proposal. The Postal Law investigation reports international experiences of postal code being made available to more people as open data can be used as a basis for new public services and products. It was a pity that the cooperation government did not come forward with this proposal. It would have been good as part of this bill. Of course, I agree with the special opinion of the alliance parties on the handling of this bill and on the reservations of the Center Party, but for time, I only call for reservations 4 and 7.
i-33300fa956e5098f-477	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4, which is that we want postal services that work throughout the country. The digital society, which is taking over more and more, must not contribute to creating legal uncertainty for citizens. Today, unfortunately, mail and bills do not arrive on time very often. The debt collection companies are on after two weeks; in the past it was a month, but now it is fast. In fact, this can ruin low income earners and even lead to homelessness, as can be seen. This is not acceptable in any way. We need to have a foundation in our public service that we can trust. I really long for the society we had before, where we took care of these benefits and public services and where they were prioritised. We put them in focus and created a security base with margins for the most important. I have relatives who worked at the post office back then. It took a long, solid education, of which they were immensely proud. It was a nice, robust public service. I can't wait to get back to that point of view. It is clear that we need to modernise and exploit the new technologies. But we need to build a robust public service again, which we can trust and which does not expose people, especially people who have no defence, any extra money at the bank or any relatives who can get involved. It has to work. The bills must arrive in time. That is why we need a smooth transition to the digital society. We need to ease the pressure on the postal service in various ways, including reviewing the demand for returns. The Left Party is in favour of many parts of the new postal law that go that way. Overall, we also want to ensure that the public has the same competitive potential as the private one. Now that, from the 1990s onwards, we have moved towards corporate times, where companies will have more and more benefits at the expense of society, price transparency has only been allowed to apply to Postnord. This is not good, because it makes Postnord more difficult to compete with the other companies. First of all, we think it should at least be equal conditions, especially now that we have seen that liberalisation in the area after the area has led to a deterioration in service. As I said, this was an incredibly important, basic service that all of us citizens want to trust.
i-33300fa956e5098f-484	Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the proposals on which the Liberals are present, but I am content for time winning by calling for the approval of reservation No 4, which deals with postal services throughout the country. Of course, I also support the special opinion of the Alliance. Mr President, I would like to Well-functioning postal services remain central to the growth and development of businesses around the country. Good access to postal services is also crucial for people to live and operate throughout the country. The post office is of central importance to people. Regardless of the development of digital mailboxes, the postal service plays an important role. The recent debate on post that is not forthcoming and the dissatisfaction of the citizens must be taken very seriously. In line with globalisation and the increase in digitalisation, postal services have become the focus, as companies need to be able to send and receive goods and goods from all parts of the country. We see an increase in e-commerce and it should provide opportunities for new, smart solutions. For us liberals, postal services are part of society's basic services. Although the development of digital services has led to reduced letter volumes, it is important to ensure a reasonable level of service also in rural and sparsely populated areas. We see the possibility of co-distribution. It can be about newspapers and other services. We also believe that more efficient postal delivery can contribute to better service and perhaps even fewer and better transport. However, we believe that the terms of the Postal Regulation hamper the possibility of coordinating and developing new opportunities. The rules for postal services also affect how the mail is to arrive. Today it happens by plane, train and bus, and in the future perhaps even more by car. What is the future of postal distribution? What forms are possible in the future? E-commerce is increasing, and this means that different types of services are needed to transport the packages. We in the Liberals have started to think about a modern form of grocery store – the service services of the future that can be packaged in different ways. We would like to see product development where you can also think about mobility and transport for letters and packages. We see rapid development in almost all sectors of society, including the taxi industry. New companies are developing new services and opportunities. What we have learned from the new opportunities and companies is that we have regulations that hamper and sometimes make it difficult to make the necessary product development. So the questions we ask ourselves are: What will future postal deliveries look like? What services can local business create for citizens to have access to various services in rural and sparsely populated areas, including, of course, postal services? I am thinking of the dentist who works in a small locality in the country and how important it has become for him to get the material he needs to do the important work he has to do. That's where the mail is absolutely central. What services will be available to all? The post office is an important public service whose functioning and service level must be ensured throughout Sweden. Recent reporting on shortcomings in the sorting and distribution of mail raises concerns and disappointments among those who depend on the mail, i.e. virtually all citizens. Those of us who sit in committee have also often received comments on how it works. It is therefore important for the government in this context to take the necessary measures to achieve a well-functioning postal market that meets the needs and challenges it now faces. The proposal submitted to the Riksdag by the Government contains a number of minor measures, and it should be noted that the Government has decided to amend the Postal Regulation. But the question is, What else can be done? Digitalisation is taking off and gradually imposes higher demands on efficiency in the postal market as well. Government mailboxes and e-commerce create new opportunities, but the question to ask is: Do these possibilities all include? For example, we look with concern at the fact that broadband deployment and its objectives do not yet cover everyone. It is important that all citizens of Sweden feel that we are working to ensure that everyone has the important opportunities included in the basic service. If you don't have access to the Internet, you don't get mail and you can't do your banking services, how can you live in rural and sparsely populated areas? How can you choose where you want to work, live and run a business? The post is part of a community mission. A clear social mission must be measured in order to be able to follow developments. When rules change, it takes longer to get your mail and you have to pay more for the service, quality issues also need to be raised. It must be possible to measure the results, including at regional level. Everything indicates that there are differences. Quality work must be the focus. Consumers must know what they are paying for. Companies need to know when their mail arrives, and we in Parliament need better feedback. Therefore, action must be taken. How do government parties and governments intend to strengthen monitoring and measurement? Mr President, I would like to Real estate boxes are a controversial issue. Many newly built houses already have real estate boxes. But the question that needs to be asked is: Should the legislation be amended to force development? We in the Liberals do not want to support a statutory requirement for all multi-family buildings to be equipped with building boxes. It can be a very difficult intervention in some cultural properties, and there is also a problem of accessibility for some citizens, which means that they will then be deprived of the opportunity to get the post in a reasonable manner. That is why we welcome the fact that the committee states that it is the wrong way to regulate the distribution in multi-family buildings by law. Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, a functioning postal service is part of society's basic service. The development of digital services is a great opportunity, but it must not adversely affect the development of our citizens. Liberals believe that it is important to ensure a reasonable level of service in rural and sparsely populated areas as well. We believe that consumers should be able to choose a faster delivery. We are open to product development, because the important thing is that the post office arrives and on time. But then we must also create rules and frameworks that enable development and the solutions of the future. We Liberals see the future and the solutions of the future, not yesterday.
i-33300fa956e5098f-505	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask Nina Lundström about real estate boxes. Whatever service we're supposed to have in society, someone is supposed to do it. The working environment at the post office is not very good. When you talk to those who work in the post office you find out that they are very worn out and ressed. Previously, they had lean. Now they don't even have time for that, but it's often pretty chaotic. We also see that on the dividend. It would make a lot easier in terms of health and safety at work if you had real estate boxes. It would mean less running in stairs, and it would go faster. One could indeed adjust this so that there is the possibility of planning things differently in the building for those with disabilities, so that it should not be a problem. I don't understand why the Liberals don't want to see this with real estate boxes. It would be a way of achieving a higher level of service at the post office for less money and guaranteeing the working environment for the employees. That's my question.
i-33300fa956e5098f-508	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech, building boxes are being set up today, not least in new production, where it is also possible to make sure that they fit into the infrastructure already in place in the property. Emma Wallrup has put forward a proposal to implement this, but the committee has chosen not to go into her and the Left Party proposals. We believe that this is the wrong way to go about influencing the opportunities for citizens because they want to try to solve a problem of health and safety at work in the post office. You have to make sure to solve that in a different way. A lot of older people and people with disabilities depend on getting the basic service. With many properties already having problems with accessibility today, we believe that this would be a very negative development from a citizen's and residents' perspective. Where reasonable solutions can be found, you should do so. That could be a good way to go. But to use legislation to force development – legislation that does not take into account the perspective of the residents – we do not think it is reasonable.
i-33300fa956e5098f-512	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5, which I failed to do in my own speech. During the neoliberal era, we have seen a business model that is not very close to the ground. The School of Economics trains managers in a way that does not benefit the operations very well. We also see this in the mail. We see that the employees have complained a lot about designing the business in a way that has not worked for the employees. I hope that this has been looked at a little better in recent times, but there have been a lot of complaints. I do not understand how the Liberals can favour an ideology that liberalises more and more, where profits go first and where they do not want to legislate and plan to use funds as efficiently as possible. Of course, we should not impose a charge on the resident here, but you have to solve it in a way so that everyone can afford it and it is functional. But one must take a holistic approach. We can't let the invisible hand steer. We see how social functions do not work when profits are to be made at each stage in order to keep going the way of companies. Property boxes would be an important measure precisely for the employees in the post office. The proposal could be put forward softly, so that there are opportunities for support and funding to apply or something similar. We have a need for efficiency improvements in postal operations.
i-33300fa956e5098f-517	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is a support party for the current government. I think that Emma Wallrup needs to address her question to the government she supports. I note that she is alone in pursuing the issue of mandatory rules of law for property boxes. The other committee has not supported this. We in the Liberals are incredibly committed to accessibility issues. It's about getting an accessible society. We are very vigilant so that laws are not passed that affect this in a negative direction. This type of legislation does not know the people who really need action. Then, of course, there are also cultural properties and existing properties that are difficult to rebuild, but for us it is important to be watchdogs so that accessibility does not deteriorate. Here we have taken the residents' perspective. Wherever possible, these issues should be addressed. We respect the fact that there are health and safety issues in this. They must be solved in their own way. However, we are not prepared to use binding legislation that could affect residents.
i-33300fa956e5098f-521	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the reservations of the Christian Democrats 2 and 6 and agree with our Alliance-wide special opinion. The Government proposes to the Riksdag to adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Postal Act, that the Government or the authority that the Government decides should provide regulations on how the universal postal service's requirements for the delivery of postal items should be fulfilled and that the provider of a postal service should provide certain information about its finances and activities to the Government or the authority that the Government decides. In addition to these amendments to the Postal Act, the Government has already decided, by means of a regulation of 12 October 2017, to abolish the requirement for overnight transport in the Postal Regulation, which means that as of 1 January 2018, at least 95 per cent of domestic letters must have been distributed within two following working days regardless of where in the country the letters have been submitted. The Government has also decided to increase the price of postage from SEK 7 to SEK 9. This means higher postage costs and a deterioration in postal services. I regret that the government has decided to abandon overnight transport and chooses two days of delivery of letters, but it is also positive that the government raises the minimum requirement in the Postal Regulation from today's 85% to at least 95% of the letters being delivered after two days. Let us hope that Postnord will meet this challenge. We will, of course, closely monitor developments so that no one is affected by late dividends. Mr President, I would like to The government's changes are drastic and partly due to fewer letters, mainly in Denmark but also in Sweden. More and more people choose digital communication. It is about reducing expenditure on Postnord, which Sweden owns together with Denmark, for example for expensive air transport. Postnord goes at a loss and has received financial support from Denmark with 1.8 billion. In addition, the Swedish State has entered SEK 400 million to help Postnord. There is undoubtedly a crisis in Postnord, both financially and in confidence. It is about thousands of people and entrepreneurs who do not get the mail delivered on time each year. Some shipments disappear along the way and never arrive. Sick, unemployed, rural people and, not least, rural entrepreneurs have been severely affected by this. The Christian Democrats are concerned about this development. For this reason, in our committee motion, we have called for a new legislation with stricter requirements for the service and delivery of mail to the population and businesses. We also propose in our committee motion that Postnord should make the structural changes needed to streamline operations and ensure that the letters arrive on time. We believe that Postnord must improve delivery reliability, so that rural residents and entrepreneurs do not continue to suffer inconvenience. Mr President, I would like to Postal services are an important public service. The mode and level of service must be ensured throughout Sweden. Recent reporting of shortcomings in the sorting and distribution of mail raises great concern and disappointment among those who depend on the mail in different ways. It is therefore important for the government to take the necessary measures to achieve a well-functioning postal market that meets the needs and challenges it now faces. The proposal submitted to the Riksdag by the Government includes certain minor measures. However, we would like to point out that more needs to be done. Digitalisation is taking off and gradually imposes higher demands on efficiency in the postal market. In this context, it is important to have a clear social mission that can be measured in order to monitor developments closely, so that feedback can be provided and necessary measures can be taken. We assume that the Government proposal and the decisions taken by the Government for its own part are regularly monitored and analysed so that other relevant measures can be taken without delay. The Government proposal will enable regulations to be developed that clarify to the postal operator designated to provide the universal postal service, i.e. Postnord, what is required. We are in favour of this being clarified, but it needs to be closely followed up. Furthermore, the Christian Democrats believe that the regulation requires stricter requirements for delivery and service in order to turn developments in the postal sector in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are very concerned about Postnord's ability to carry out its social mission. Postal nodes need to improve delivery reliability so that residents and businesses are not affected by, for example, debt collection requirements or missed hospital visits. In our opinion, structural changes within the company are needed to streamline operations and ensure that the letters arrive on time. The Christian Democrats believe that the government and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency should return to the committee with an update on the impact of the government's decisions regarding postal services.
i-V2oaaz3UT2XmnRxhkYBLRp	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the Committee on Transport's report No 4 on postal matters. Today, on the one hand, we are dealing with new postal legislation and, on the other hand, with a number of movements from the general exercise time in the postal sector. What can be said is that postal issues are concerned. It is a basic social infrastructure that guarantees that we can communicate with each other. The development of technology has led us to have an industry in very big change, for both good and bad. Since the turn of the millennium, the number of physical letters has fallen by about a third. Digitalisation leads to changes in the way we communicate with each other. You're asking for fast broadband rather than getting letters every day. Connections to private digital mailboxes for government mail are growing very fast. Today there are several different variants. Last spring the Swedish Tax Agency announced that just over 1.1 million Swedes had joined some digital mailbox before that year's declarations. Today, we are talking about government posts from a total of 18 agencies. And there are a growing number of municipalities connected to the digital mailboxes. One of the larger mailboxes has a total of 1 400 connected senders – it also includes different types of companies. It was stated at the turn of the year that it had barely 2 million connected customers. Based on this figure, it can be assumed that the number of users of the digital mailboxes doubled last year. It is in this context that we must see the new legislation that we are dealing with today. For we need legislation that works at the time in which we live, where progress is very fast. We need an infrastructure that allows citizens across the country to rely on the postal service to function and for mail to arrive on time. Only in the last year have we been able to follow countless reports in the media about a business that is worse and worse. We want to see better follow-up. We note that anything other than a postal business that is reliable for users – both citizens and businesses – is unacceptable. Mr President, I would like to The issue of building boxes has been on the table for many years, not only for the members of the Transport Committee, but also for residents, property owners and postal operators. In the past, the committee has referred to the fact that the parties concerned are primarily the ones who best resolve the introduction of building boxes. Slowly but surely, the number of households with real estate boxes is also increasing. Last year, a total of 66 000 households received a change in the form of dividends, from letter certificates to real estate boxes. In new construction today, real estate boxes are basically standard. But it is urgent that these developments be speeded up. Although we in the Committee on Transport do not see legislation as a means of speeding up the transition, it is desirable for citizens to have a higher level of service by being able to receive larger mails, which are not allowed by letter in door today. Avoiding a hole in the door also increases security for residents in mainly multi-detached houses. Perhaps the most important thing is that real estate boxes would bring an improved working environment for postmen. Mr President, I would like to A little more than a month ago– in mid-December– this House decided on an additional capital injection to Postnord of SEK 400 million. In 2009, one of the worst deals of all time was carried out for the Swedish state. It was the centre party and then the Minister for Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson who pushed the deal through with the support of the rest of the Alliance government and its members in the Chamber. Moderates, Liberals, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats! It is you who are responsible for this exceptionally bad deal for Sweden's taxpayers. This was done despite the fact that the transaction was contested due to lack of analysis, lack of evidence and purely commercial reasons. During the eight years that have passed since the then Minister for Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson and her government played a business, we have until the last financial statements seen that the Swedish part of Postnord's operations has shown a profit of 6 billion, while the Danish part has made losses of 2 billion. It was these losses and, to say the least, the poor settlement with the Danish State that, combined with their difficulties in adapting their operations to changing market conditions, led to the capital injection that the Riksdag had to decide on. The purpose of the addition was, of course, to ensure that the postal service is of good quality. However, the increase of 400 million was not enough. In total it was 2.2 billion, of which 1.8 billion was a contribution from Denmark, as the company is owned together with Denmark. That the distribution was in this way, we Swedish taxpayers must thank the current Social Democratic Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg, who, unlike his predecessor, made an exceptionally good negotiation. In connection with the addition, the governance model is also reviewed to ensure its effectiveness, which is very, very welcome. Madam President, I would like It can be said that the merger itself has not been economically beneficial to our country. The contract design for the creation of Postnord has not been good for Swedish taxpayers, customers or citizens. This is the basis for the problems people are experiencing today in the postal market. Postnord must improve its trust and guarantee the quality of its operations. We citizens of this country must be able to rely on the postal service to arrive on time. At the turn of the year, the new Postal Regulation came into force which entails both increased quality requirements and the possibility of greater efficiency in postal management. The new regulation, combined with the legislation we are now dealing with, provides the conditions for the postal service to function better in the future. The functioning of the postal service is of crucial importance to businesses and traders as well as individual citizens throughout the country. For individuals, it can have devastating consequences when the mail does not work. An individual may end up with the Kronofogden or receive payment notes. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like After some speeches in this House, some concerns arise. The Postal Act must ensure that citizens have access to high-quality postal services throughout the country. Of course, we are all concerned about increasing drug use and increased access to arms in our country, and it is clear that much of this is about smuggling. But do Erik Ottosson and the Moderates really mean that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency should also be the control authority for law enforcement? How is this to be financed? What I have seen in the Moderates' draft budget is not put by a crown to this. How do the Moderates think this is gonna work? Should retailers, postal agents and postal workers be given the right to open mail arbitrarily or in general to check them? It's not quite that simple. We Social Democrats believe that the protection of the integrity of postal law is a prerequisite for reliable postal services. At the same time, of course, we must ensure that the law enforcement authorities, such as the prosecution service, the police and the Customs Service, are given the resources to prioritise these issues. That is also why the Government's budget for this year that we discussed here in December also increases the appropriations for both the Customs Agency and the police. As far as the speech by Anders Åkesson is concerned, I cannot stop being surprised by the Center Party. Of course, I have nothing against co-distribution, what Åkesson highlights as the solution to the postal challenges. However, the fact that we Members of Parliament in this House are to dictate how postal operators, newspaper agents and parcel distributors are to implement this in the smartest way is foreign to me. I firmly believe that those who are competent for this are also the ones who solve it in the very best way. Ultimately, efficiency is about profitability, and where profits arise, co-distribution will also take place. When we then come to Åkesson's reservation regarding access to the postal code system, the committee and the government note that the basis for justifying a change in legislation is inadequate. This is certainly not the first time that the Center Party has been pushing for changes in postal activities without having carried out analyses. We all have the Postnord fusion in fresh memory. But you're surprised. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, apart from my last doubts, I can emphasise that, on the whole, we have quite a broad consensus within the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the challenges facing us. I think that is very positive, because what is most important is that we have a postal business that can be trusted – that people and companies in our country get the mail when it comes.
i-33300fa956e5098f-551	Madam President, I would like I opened the debate today in the way Teres Lindberg concludes his speech – by stating that there is, in essence, a fairly broad consensus on the challenges that exist in the postal work today. However, Teres Lindberg chose instead of adopting a constructive tone of conversation to go to the frontal attack on our reservation on the smuggling of drugs and weapons by post, and at the same time consciously, I assume, misunderstanding the basics of what we said. We said that it was sad that the perspective of the law enforcement authorities in this work had not been brought into the postal law investigation to a greater extent. It was not a word about adding any additional responsibilities to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which Teres Lindberg is standing here claiming that we should have said or in any way worked for. That's not what I said. I said that it was sad that it was not chosen to add that perspective to the Postal Law investigation to a greater extent so that the law enforcement authorities might perhaps have even better opportunities to do their job. More resources for the law enforcement authorities are laudable. The only thing we proposed was to take their perspective into account and see what rules might need to be developed and changed. Can Teres Lindberg agree that perhaps we also need to give the authorities the tools to carry out their work and not just more resources?
i-33300fa956e5098f-557	Madam President, I would like I do not really understand what Erik Ottoson and the Moderates mean by their reservation. I myself have a background as a postal employee, but before the post office became Postnord. Already then we had a fairly far-reaching cooperation with both the Swedish Customs Agency and the police. When I worked at the post office out at Arlanda and we saw a suspicious shipment we contacted each time the Customs, as an example. It was for us a matter of course, and I cannot see in my wildest imagination that this would have gotten worse. It is more about resources, about the ability of the Customs to come when staff in the post office contact them and so on. In what way the postal law would regulate this, I find it very difficult to see, not because I do not think that either drug smuggling or arms smuggling is serious enough, because it is very serious and needs to be given high priority. But I don't think postal law would solve the problems. I'm not connecting it. Rather, I think it is so incredibly much more important that the postal law protects the integrity that is there today.
i-33300fa956e5098f-560	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that it is important to have the cooperation that has existed and to have the resources that are absolutely needed. That is absolutely right and proper. However, when we receive signals from our law enforcement authorities that you would like to have a better perspective on these issues in relation to the postal law investigation and what became of it, you cannot take Teres Lindberg's position and just question it all. If they have points of view, these must come out. I do not see why this should be a concern. Nor do I see why Teres Lindberg chooses to take this particular issue to go to an inappropriate frontal attack on us when we try to have a constructive debate on how we can improve postal and postal services in Sweden. I have another question for Teres Lindberg, about real estate boxes for which she speaks warmly. When do we get the bill for real estate boxes, which you seem to think is so very good?
i-33300fa956e5098f-563	Madam President, I would like I do not believe, as Erik Ottoson seems to think, that by depriving the law enforcement authorities of their own responsibility to work with law enforcement, we would solve the problems. I do not think that we can pass on that responsibility or part of the responsibility on, for example, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. On the contrary, law enforcement authorities need to take greater responsibility – the responsibility that they already have in legislation today. Enough about that. Erik Ottoson also asks about the real estate boxes. You are cordially welcome, Erik Ottoson, to talk about it! I think we and our parties could find a deal on real estate boxes, so, please, when you're ready, we're going.
i-33300fa956e5098f-565	Madam President, I would like I'll take this opportunity to make a correction. It is reservation 8 instead of reservation 7 that I am in favour of. It was the worst, Madam President, how I surprised the Social Democrats and Teres Lindberg to praise the fact that proposals are now being put forward that open up for joint distribution. It was good that I surprised Teres Lindberg, because Lindberg's analysis and speech did not surprise anyone. The Social Democrats are always the best at everything and always, no matter what. That analysis does not surprise anyone. But it is, after all, in the cooperation government, made up of the Green Party and the Social Democrats, that you have worked out the bill. What surprised Mr Lindberg, Madam President, was my argument for the opportunities that might open up for environmental benefits, for democratic gains and for a country that is not split up with us opening up for joint distribution. As, unlike Mr Lindberg, I have no experience of employment in Posten or Postnord, I refrained from any detailed reasoning as to how this should be done. I am absolutely sure that Lindberg understands it much better than I do. But I understand so much, Madam President, that by breaking up old structures, opening up to cooperation, new business models, competition and transparency and not protecting old state structures, we are reasonably achieving effects that are good for society, the environment and citizens. Postal distribution needs to be improved.
i-33300fa956e5098f-569	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the line! I can only agree that postal services must be improved. I also made it clear that I have no problems with co-distribution either. But in your speech, it sounded like it's the solution to everything. I do not think that in politics we should dictate the terms or go into detail and talk about how to solve actual business. What it is all about somewhere is being able to do good business, have good profit and good profitability in the business you conduct, or at least that it should go around. I believe that this is very much happening on its own. I don't believe that politics should dictate the terms. But politics has dictated this. It's nothing new. We have made an announcement from the House, and the new legislation that is now coming and what Anders Åkesson points out is also a result of the announcement made by the Riksdag. That is the reality we are facing. However, I think that it would in itself be a super solution for postal activities in Sweden, because I do not think it is in this House that we are ultimately solving market conditions and market conditions for streamlining postal activities – no, unfortunately.
i-33300fa956e5098f-572	Madam President, I would like No, but politics should provide the right conditions. It is quite right that the actors in the postal system or the infrastructure for postal services should make use of the conditions provided. Announcements, Madam President, have been made by this Parliament and do so because, from time to time, regardless of the colour of the government, it feels that the government is a bit slow to come up with its proposals. That's it.
i-33300fa956e5098f-574	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is probably the case that, from time to time, we in this House may feel that the government is a little meek. It is a question of us Members also pushing the government into their work. I agree with you. There's no difference in the thing there.
i-33300fa956e5098f-576	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying, as some of the previous speakers, that I am pleased that we have a broad consensus on fundamental issues relating to the post and how it should work. The situation has not been acceptable for a relatively long time. We need to make changes in order to make postal services work better and also change legislation and rules so that they are in line with our time. It's incredibly important, because even if society and the mail have changed – we don't send as much letters as before – it's incredibly important that we have a functioning and good postal service. On several occasions, however, one Member, who has unfortunately left the Chamber, pointed out that she longs to return. You can sometimes feel that way. But I am glad that we are still a majority who feel that we want to join together in shaping the future and trying to get the modernisation to reach out to everyone, instead of longing back. I think there were things that were better before. But overall, there has been a great deal of improvement in terms of communications. Today, for example, we can send a letter that will arrive within a second rather than take days, as it did before. The great symbols of modernisation were in the past aviation, the railway line with the railway station that ended up in the middle of the village and the community as well as the post office. Today, the symbols are more like drones, robots and smart phones with which we are busy all the time. Letters have largely been replaced by digitisation in the form of e-mails, text messages and, as Teres was into, digital mailboxes. This, of course, changes the conditions for the old institutions. We have also abolished the Post Office, and the old monopoly has competitive both the parcel and letter delivery. But the regulations and our governance of these systems have not been associated with this change. Here I mean that there is still a lot to do. When we hand out key functions in society to companies that are no longer state-owned, we also need to tighten up governance and control so that it works and reaches out to everyone. The proposal to be decided by the Riksdag is a step along the way. It gives the Government and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency the opportunity to decide on how governance should be in the future and what rules and requirements should apply to the postal network that has the universal service. It is, for example, about the speed with which the letters must be distributed. In the regulation decided by the government, 90% of the letters must now be distributed within two days, against the previous 85%. That it is two days instead of one day is probably perceived by very few as a deterioration. Nevertheless, some would argue that it is a deterioration, but the important thing is that the letters come forward and that you can trust the mail. The most important thing is not that they arrive quickly, because if you are in a hurry and want rapid results and communication with others soon you use digitalisation. As I said, there is still a great deal left to do in terms of governance. For example, it is about what requirements and rules should apply to those of us who live in far rural areas. To continue with the five-day distribution is important, but it is also about how far it can be to the mailbox. I myself have six kilometres to the mailbox most of the days of the week. In the future, it cannot be Postnord or those who hand out the letters that determine the rules, as it has been for far too long. It must be the authorities who decide what distance it can be from the mailbox. This is a prerequisite for people to know what applies and for them to be able to demand their right in terms of communication. Even if there are fewer letters in the mailbox, the number of packages is increasing. Especially for people living in rural areas, where it often goes further and further to the store, the delivery of packages will continue to be central and perhaps even more important. Then you have to know what applies, what demands you can make on those who will distribute the packages and where to turn if it does not work. We also need to see the whole of politics. I am proud that we have adopted a broadband strategy that applies to everyone for the first time. Now 100 per cent of the Swedish population will have access to rapid communication with the modern means of communication. I think Nina Lundström has misunderstood the situation. During the previous government, the broadband strategy aimed at 90% of the population. That sounds good, but you left 1 million people outside. That is the difference between the previous strategy and the current one. In addition, the government decided the other week that from 1 March it should be guaranteed ten megabits per second wherever you live in Sweden and thus have a functional Internet access. Such a guarantee has never existed before. This is combined with support where if you live inaccessible and are not automatically reached by mobile systems, you should only have to pay a maximum of SEK 5,000 to get a connection of at least ten megabits. This means that companies and households can manage their business, that you can reach SVT Play and watch TV shows and that you can manage other business and services that you need. This is a minimum level that for the vast majority must feel like security and an opportunity to be part of the new and modern. Now we do not need to remain in the situation that has long been going on where you have just had the right to telephony. The old state guarantee meant only 1 megabit per second, giving access to telephony but no functional internet access. Here we also have a better function and a better system that looks at the whole of people's ability to participate. Madam President, I would like I can't wait to get back. I think that modernisation should reach everyone, and it is good if we are many who run that line so that the new society reaches out to the whole of Sweden.
i-33300fa956e5098f-596	Madam President, I would like I like the government's hopeful plans. He could almost join the Moderate slogan A land of hope. It is nice to hear him talk about the visions for how to get everyone into the development that is taking place. Basically, we do not have a deeper line of conflict in the things that are now proposed. However, I have a few supplementary questions for the Government. What happens now? What steps will be taken to ensure that there are no unreasonable consequences of the current changes in regulation and law? As I mentioned earlier in the debate, various activities have regulatory requirements to deliver information within a certain time frame. Is the Government Office taking a holistic approach to ensure that the state does not at one end steal and at the other end demand and that these two things do not go together? What is the government's vision for how postal services should function in the longer term? The measures now being taken by those working on this in the market are to be regarded as short-term reliefs, so to speak, to keep their noses above the surface of the water for a while longer. What is the next step, and what is the government's vision in this area?
i-33300fa956e5098f-599	Madam President, I would like After the decision, it will primarily be about a process where the rules are clarified, clarified and tightened up against Postnord so that people will know what requirements are made and what rights consumers and households around Sweden have. That's the basics. It will take some time to come up with the new rules, and this will certainly take place in dialogue between the Government and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. The long-term vision is, of course, that we should have a good and functioning postal service throughout the country. We must follow developments so that we change the rules in line with what is happening. Now it is the packages that are growing, and then the regulatory framework must change along with it. There has been some discussion today about mailboxes and real estate boxes, and there I would have liked to have seen that we had made changes. We had talks with the opposition before we tabled the bill. It would have been good if we had agreed on further measures there. But we could not do that, and we abstained from that requirement. I think it will be in any case within a few years. Perhaps the next government will take the matter up again. As I see it is not a deterioration for households but an improvement if you can get real estate boxes where also the packages can fit, instead of the small mail slot that makes you have to go to a shop much further away to get their packages.
i-33300fa956e5098f-603	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. An important follow-up question to what the Government said about the growth of the parcel part and the decline of the letter part is whether this means that the government sees that mail deliveries will eventually have to accept the standards of parcel delivery and rather become part of that flow or whether the Government believes that we will continue to be able to have a separate flow of letters following some other structures. These are separated flows, as it looks today, and I think it is important to keep the level that many people expect in the postal services we have. I have another question relating to this and to the consequences: when we change the regulation of postal legislation, which we discussed earlier in relation to unforeseen consequences, authorities, but also companies, must be prepared to do so. The government talked about the delivery of messages in under a second, for example. Not all our authorities are really there. It is true that there is another minister, Ardalan Shekarabi, who is responsible for digitalisation in the public sector, and I understand that there is some cooperation. However, what is clearly asked of both industry and government representatives and the municipal sector are clear command structures and directions for what applies. You don't really see that today. The Digitalisation Authority, which is in the process, is possibly a tool to be held in hand, but it does not have the powers that would be required to ensure that development meets what the new Postal Act in all its different parts entails. It is too toothless for that, at least the directives we have seen here.
i-33300fa956e5098f-609	Madam President, I would like I have to say that these are good questions. I've been Minister of Digitalization for about a year and a half. A great deal is happening in this area. A very obvious fundamental issue is that we must take a clearer and stronger leadership in politics and government on these issues. These are changes that are so extensive and require so much investment that you cannot continue to just let things happen in all respects in different sectors. It becomes very expensive and sprawling, and we do not take advantage of digitalisation's potential for efficiency in this way. If I can respond in a more comprehensive way, my assessment is that the government must take a clearer leadership and be prepared to make key decisions in certain respects in order for us to keep up with the transition and seize the opportunities of digitalisation.
i-33300fa956e5098f-612	Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson linked digitalisation with postal distribution, which I think is an important issue, because they are connected. Given that I was apostrophated, I would like to point out a few points on these issues that are connected. If the usual snail mail does not reach citizens in the country, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas, it is a prerequisite for getting the mail in digital mailboxes to have a connection. The Minister for Digitalisation and the Government have submitted a letter, and I would like to remind you of the key figures that are there. It is important for this debate on the post. If reference is made to the fact that you can go to the digital mailbox and one does not exist, we have a huge concern, because how can these citizens be involved in society? In letter 47, the government chose not to go on the Rural Committee's proposal, which was about 100 megabits up to 2025, but the government has proposed that 95 percent should have received broadband up to 2025. I can only refer to the motion presented by the Liberals on the letter. I will not go into it now, because it will be discussed in another debate. However, we believe that these issues are closely linked. If people who live in the country – in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas – feel that they are falling behind if politics here focuses on that, in order to get their important information, they should go to a digital mailbox that does not exist, we have a huge worry.
i-33300fa956e5098f-618	Madam President, I would like I would strongly argue that the broadband strategy chosen by the government is sharper and tougher than that put forward by the Rural Committee. It is a question of saying that 95% of the population should have 1 gigabit by 2025. It's much tougher targets. We who live at the far end and perhaps belong to the part of 1% that cannot get fibre or at least 100 megabits per second should still be able to get at least 30 megabits per second at that time. That's a very strong improvement. Compared to any country today, we have a strategy that is tougher, reaches out to more and has come further than the others have done, even though we are a rather sparsely populated and relatively large country in relation to the population.
i-33300fa956e5098f-621	Madam President, I would like I would like to focus on the percentage of citizens not covered by the target. I remember a hearing that we had in the Transport Committee, which was about the entrepreneur who was allowed to travel 90 miles to fill out forms that drew a lot of capacity, so that the authorities could get his reports in. I'm worried about the percentages that don't get on the train into the future. I believe that we need to follow up at regional level what it looks like. I'm in favour of reviewing the framework. I look forward to the modern development of various types of services packaging reaching out to the citizen, and there we in the Liberals are willing to contribute. However, I am concerned about those people who are not included in this, who will not get their regular mail and who may not be on the digitisation train. They I think we should really catch up, because the mail is part of the basic service as it is for the dentist who has to send his dental material by regular mail. I think it is a really important hygiene factor that we manage the basic service no matter where we operate and live. Another thing is that this affects the ability to work and live in all parts of the country. I would like to refer the Government to reading the Liberals' motion, where we have highlighted a number of concerns. The Swedish National Audit Office has also mentioned in its report No 14 that Sweden lags behind when it comes to e-government. It is the same thing there: a lot of information is going out to our citizens. But how does the Government intend to follow up on this? We have the national figures. How does the Government intend to ensure that we get the regional figures on what this will look like? We must follow this much more closely now that we are also loosening the regulatory framework.
i-33300fa956e5098f-627	Madam President, I would like I feel like things got a little messy around here. We're not loosening the rules. We're tightening up the rules. I can tell you that for the first time, which should be positive, we have a strategy that applies to everyone – unlike the previous government. Modernisation should reach out to everyone. As early as 1 March this year, we will have a guarantee that everyone will be entitled to at least 10 megabits per second wherever you live in the country – all the companies that exist in this country. This is an increase of 1 000 percent compared to the demands of the previous government. I think most people in Sweden think it's a pretty good model. In addition, we are reducing the demands that you pay for yourself. In the new universal service, where you have access to the internet throughout Sweden, you have to pay only 5 000 SEK. Previously, you could pay 20 000 SEK to get access to the phone. This is a great improvement throughout Sweden for all those who live inaccessible to and for all companies who have difficulty handling payments and getting customer service online.
i-33300fa956e5098f-631	Madam President, I would like The fact that the number of letters is decreasing due to digitalisation has all previously been said in the speaker's chair. There is a shift towards more digitised communication. At the same time, however, there are people and businesses living and working in rural areas who need letters and packages on time. It is therefore very important that we keep an eye on postal services, so that it can deliver on the basis of the criteria that the Minister touched upon in his speech. It is also very important that broadband is extended in rural areas in order for people to have access to the internet. Today, there is broadband via the 700-megahertz band, as we have talked about in other contexts in committee. It has so far not been made available to the market. This would give more people in rural areas access to broadband and the internet. In this way, we might also be able to overcome the problems of accessibility. More people and businesses in rural areas could use digital letters and other things. The government has a problem with letters and packages not arriving on time.
i-33300fa956e5098f-635	Madam President, I would like I cannot give an exact date, but it will happen shortly. PTS will auction the 700-megahertz band and ensure that we will thereby have increased accessibility and a good mobile connection and mobile coverage across the country. It is a step in the broadband strategy that we have, which means that we will have better and more stable mobile telephone coverage even in areas that today have poor coverage.
i-33300fa956e5098f-636	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I want to continue on the same track. It is today about better coverage and better accessibility in the digitised world in which we live. It is simply very important for people's lives and for them to be able to live and work in different parts of the country that they can benefit from this technology and its benefits. In order for municipal networks to be able to contribute to this development, the government must draw up a law that enables these urban networks to operate across municipal boundaries. I think that would speed up and enable more smaller municipalities in rural areas to get broadband and internet. What are the government's plans to change this legislation?
i-33300fa956e5098f-638	Madam President, I would like In connection with our adoption of the new broadband strategy, a number of assignments were given, among other things, to PTS. One of these tasks was to come up with proposals on how legislation might need to be changed in order for urban networks to be able to cross municipal boundaries. This is a real problem. In the vicinity of the municipal border, it is sometimes less effective that the municipality that may have the city centre much further away should have to take care of villages or communities that are close to the border. I expect that we will soon have an answer on this, so that the government can go ahead with this and help us to have a change in legislation that will make it easier for urban networks to cope with these problems.
i-33300fa956e5098f-640	Madam President, I would like I want to make a correction. I happened to be in favour of reservation 2, but it's supposed to be reservation 3.
i-33300fa956e5098f-641	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the tax committee's report 7, which deals with the government's letter 27, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's tax revenue statement. Tax expenditure is essentially aid resulting from separate rules of tax law. In order to determine whether this is a tax expense and the amount it amounts to, there must be a reference standard for the tax system. It is in the discrepancy between the standard of comparison and the tax rules that tax expenditure arises. The Government reports tax expenditure each year in a letter. The Swedish Democrats have in recent years expressed their views on this letter and, in response to the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office, developed this one step further. We in Sweden have, at least since the early 1990s, followed, or at least tried to be guided by, a principle of uniform taxation. Tax expenditure is one way of introducing aid for different purposes through lower taxes rather than, for example, grants with the aim of influencing behaviour, for example. The Swedish Democrats do not mean that there is something wrong with such support by definition, but believe that it must also be possible to monitor how the effects of a tax expenditure change. This in turn requires that the standard of comparison is reasonably stable and that the standard of comparison is based on reasonably similar principles. In the event of such a standard being amended, the change and the reason for the change must also be explained. We also wonder why the VAT-exempt financial services are not counted as tax expenditure. Examples of VAT-free financial services are commission, custody fees, transfers and more. By contrast, services such as collection, credit and advisory services are subject to 25 per cent VAT. One could thus say that we have four VAT rates in Sweden, where 25% is normal. Then there is 12% VAT on food, for example, 6% on books and newspapers and 0% on banking, financial and insurance services. There are, of course, more examples in each area, but it was these that I chose to highlight in this debate. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that tax expenditure needs to be quantified in order for the development of expenditure to be monitored and for it to be examined in the same way as expenditure on appropriations. However, in the 2016 letter, just over one third of the 153 reported balance-bearing tax expenditures are not quantified according to the Swedish National Audit Office. The Government's letter does not show why these tax expenditures have not been quantified. In order to be able to easily absorb and understand this part of the tax system, i.e. in order to maintain the requirement for transparency, we believe that the development of tax expenditure should also be accounted for as easily as expenditure on appropriations. As I indicated earlier in this speech, there is usually a target for introducing a deviation from the standard of comparison, that is, a reason for having incurred a certain amount of tax expenditure. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that it is not possible to determine how tax expenditure in areas of expenditure is linked to the objectives of each area. This, too, makes it more difficult to assess whether or not the objectives have been achieved, making it more difficult to analyse the effectiveness of each measure. In this report, the majority of committees rejected our motion with reference to the increase in ambition expressed by the government. Instead, I believe that the Riksdag should take on board the views of the Swedish National Audit Office and enable an improved overall picture of the state budget, and not least the tax system, through approval. It is about everyone's opportunity for an improved basis for decision-making. For this reason, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-33300fa956e5098f-650	Madam President, I would like We now have to discuss the tax committee's report SkU7 Riksrevisionen's report on the government's tax expense statement. The tax system should be fair, and it must also be seen as fair, stimulating work and entrepreneurship. The simplicity and transparency of the tax system are crucial to its legitimacy. It is also important that people are aware of how much they pay in taxes and what the money is used for. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on tax expenditure is one of several important contributions to how the tax system accounting in the budget work can be developed. The tax return must be kept under constant review and improved. That is why, last June, the House decided on a declaration that the accounting of tax expenditure would become a more active tool in tax follow-up work and thus also in budgetary work. Madam President, I would like In order for citizens to be able to take a stand on the assessments a government has made with its tax policy, it is necessary for them to be aware of the effects of the tax system. Please note that we should not end up in a situation where we are starting to count on dynamic effects, but as a democratic tool, it is extremely important that the government can show what effects tax policy has. Then it is basically up to each of the voters to judge how they view the result. The current government has since it came to power in 2014 taken step by step away from openness. The Alliance governments reported on the impact of policies in a number of areas – it could relate to gender equality, distributional effects and employment. Unfortunately, the current government has given less account of the effects; employment, for example, is not included in the latest accounts. Governments should, according to the best available knowledge and conventions, account for the impact of the policies pursued. Madam President, I would like Taxes currently represent the single largest expenditure on households. Studies show that Swedes consistently underestimate how much tax they pay. People are affected by all taxes, not only by direct but also by indirect taxes. Nevertheless, the knowledge of indirect taxes – VAT or social security contributions – is very limited. The studies show that employers' contributions appear to be particularly confusing, and they are, in part, a tax on labour. Information on the tax system needs to be improved. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to the Government in terms of improving the accounting of tax expenditure.
i-33300fa956e5098f-657	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report. In this House, tax revenue and expenditure are the most debated in the budget, but there are also tax expenditures. I think a lot of people are thinking about what tax expenditure is. A tax expense is a deviation from the norm of a tax system, i.e. the extent of the deviation from the normal tax. It can be seen as support and should actually be compared to expenditure. Tax expenditure should be examined in the same way as expenditure on appropriations. To give an example, Madam President, we can look at the VAT system. Normal VAT in our country is 25%, but the VAT on food is 12%. There are areas where VAT is 6%. It is, of course, important to see what the consequences of the reductions are, particularly for the distribution policy. This is therefore a tax expenditure: the difference between the 25% VAT in one area and the 6% VAT in another area. Today we are dealing with the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office, and the committee proposes that the Riksdag add it to the record. The committee agrees with the government's assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations. The Government intends to clarify and explain to a greater extent significant changes in tax expenditure forecasts in relation to previous forecasts. The Government regularly examines both new and existing tax expenditures against the tax policy guidelines within the framework of the budget work. The Government intends to explain in future proposals both when a proposal abolishes an existing tax expenditure and more clearly explains why a proposal is presented in the tax field rather than as support on the budget's expenditure side. From certain bourgeois parties, there is sometimes criticism of the government as to how tax expenditure is calculated. It is, of course, the case that we want a different focus in the debate. Our focus in the debate is that when we took over government power, we inherited a large deficit in public finances. At the same time, unemployment was high and gaps were growing. The legacy of this government from the previous government was large deficits in public finances, due to tax cuts made with borrowed money. The underlying idea of the previous government was that social problems, regardless of form, could be solved by lowering taxes. This government has changed direction. It has gone from tax cuts to more in-work, from increased inequalities to equality and equality and from messing with our pensioners to soon abolishing the entire tax on pensioners. Madam President, I would like The tax ratio in Sweden, i.e. the share of taxes in gross domestic product, is now historically low – in 2017 it was 43.8 per cent. It will also fall further in the future, because we have reduced the tax on pensioners. So the tax debate may not be experienced. Our party sees no reason to drastically increase or reduce the tax ratio in the future. On the other hand, our country needs a cross-border tax reform. There are many exemptions in the tax system, and it becomes more a system of deduction than a tax system. A review of the tax system must be based on our being able to finance the welfare state and the necessary social investment. Not least the school, health care and care for the elderly must be financed, and security through police and defence must be ensured.
i-33300fa956e5098f-666	Madam President, I would like Transparency, transparency and efficiency are the basis for credible and legitimate tax collection. Every day millions of people contribute in hard work with taxes to the common. People's willingness to contribute, to do the right thing and to be part of the common requires that tax funds be used and used effectively. This can never be undermined or abandoned. Transparency and transparency are part of coping with efficiency. This includes knowing what the largest household expenditure is spent on, how it is used and, not least, how it is followed up. Madam President, I would like That is why this now mandatory accounting of tax expenditure to Parliament is important. It is important for legitimacy and efficiency. Analysis and reflection on tax collection in a broader perspective is also important in order to keep track of our country's public finances as a whole. Madam President, I would like In order to increase transparency and transparency, which are important guiding words for the Riksdag, the Riksdag decided as late as June last year to announce to the Government that the Government would return with a broader and clearer basis to the Riksdag and return to the openness and clarity that the Riksdag was previously used to. The Swedish Parliament then announced to the government that future letters with accounting of tax expenditure should analyse the socio-economic efficiency and employment effects of individual tax expenditures in order to increase transparency and knowledge of the effects of the policies pursued. The Riksdag is now eagerly waiting for the Government, for its credibility and legitimacy, to follow Parliament's announcement in the coming work. Madam President, I would like Since the start of the Red Green Government, the tax burden has only increased. Taxes on jobs and growth have – so far – been raised by 66 billion. Taxes have been increased for individual SMEs, RUT and ROT have deteriorated and more pay the State income tax. In addition, the government has implemented strong tax increases on travel and to live and live in rural areas throughout Sweden. Will the government be content with this? Probably not. Now we are going to make sure that there is a shift in power before the government is given the chance to raise taxes again on jobs and growth, as well as on small and medium-sized enterprises and on ordinary wage earners, who are already heavily taxed. Madam President, I would like The letter is an important prerequisite for continuing to examine what the government sets as a goal and as a means. The letter could therefore have been an even more important tool in this work. The demand for forecasts and increased transparency comes not only from the Riksdag but also from many other sources. It is extremely important for the Riksdag to be able to see that taxes contribute to the goals decided by the Government and the Riksdag. This is too difficult and must be made easier. Madam President, I would like Transparency and openness are fundamental elements of our democracy. Access to relevant information is a prerequisite for democratic scrutiny. As previous speakers have shown, as the Red-Green Government took office, this transparency has been reduced. This is a development that Parliament does not tolerate. Parliament wants more openness and transparency. That is why, of course, we are in favour of the proposal in the committee's report and look forward to the broader, deeper and clearer reports that will come to Parliament.
