i-05b1c73b37d8d624-6	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on a new sex crime law based on voluntaryity and the reservations expressed by parts of the opposition. There are also a couple of announcements on the initiative of the opposition that the minimum level of rape should be raised from two to three years in prison and that the scale of penalties for child sex purchases should be increased from a fine to a minimum sentence of six months. It should be said in this context that the levels of penalty scales in the announcements have not been dictated entirely by the Swedish Democrats. They are the result of the rapprochement of the bourgeois opposition to the proposed punishment of the Swedish Democrats for violent and sexual crimes that we have been asking for since we entered the Riksdag. For our part, we have chosen to join in what we have been able to agree on, in order at least to get a higher penalty minimum than the red-green government has otherwise wanted to see for the rape crime and the sex purchase of children. The fact that we disagree with the levels of penalties proposed by the government and with the limited changes announced have been expressed in a reservation in the report. We suggest in it that the entire 6th chapter. The criminal code should be reviewed on the basis of increasing both the mini-penalty and the maximum levels for several different offences. We believe that the sentence period for a crime is important, not only when it comes to redress or, for that matter, the possibility of rehabilitation for those who are being incapacitated. Punishments are also important for the propensity to notify. Today, many victims of sexual crimes choose not to turn to the judicial system for help. They are, of course, due to a well-known fact: that the government's under-financing by the Police Authority has led to many sex crime reports being piled up or closed for various reasons linked to resource shortages. On the other hand, many also choose not to report crimes against an identifiable perpetrator because they feel that the punishment may still be only a few months in prison after various penalty discounts and parole. Just the fact that the worst sex offenders in Swedish criminal policy history, serial rapists with high risk of relapse, are today free men, even though they have been sentenced to life sentences in the 21st century, says a great deal about the policies formed under alliance governments as well as red-green governments. Mr President, I would like to The government can pretend that the new law, built on voluntaryity, is what will make the big difference, but that will not be the case. Not least, this testifies to a great many heavy referrals. At most, it becomes a normative part of legislation, and that is perhaps precisely what we hope for. Once in court, however, it will continue to be the same difficulty of proof in reaching conviction. What can really make a greater difference is what the Swedish Democrats have been asking for for far too long now: an increased police capacity capable of making immediate efforts when sex crimes are reported. The time between the report, hearings with plaintiffs and hearings with defendants and witnesses as well as the time to trial affect the will of victims and the energy to participate in the legal process. This time must be as short as possible, for it strengthens the plaintiff and it also strengthens various evidence values. If we get much shorter processing times combined with severe penalties that guarantee more locked-in time for sex offenders, both the filing propensity and the clearance percentage can increase. And that, Mr President, is something that can be achieved with the overall criminal policy of the Swedish Democrats. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for reservation 2.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-13	Mr President, I would like to In 2017, 22,000 sexual offences were reported. Of these, 7,370 were labeled rape. Ninety-eight per cent of those reported for sexual offences are men. 15% of sexual offences occur at home, and only 11% of rapes are cleared up. The first figure is far too high, and the last one is up the walls too low. Long-term security developments have long been positive. Most categories of crime are declining over the last 20 years, but there are some worrying exceptions. It is certainly also the case that, because the police are currently unable to fully solve their task in all parts of the country, we are building up a debt that will be exchanged in the statistics in the future. Sex crimes are one of the worrying exceptions. It is one of the categories that is actually increasing. According to the Crime Prevention Council, some of the increase can be explained by the fact that more documents are actually criminalised. These are mainly legislative amendments in 2004 and 2005. There is also an increased awareness of these issues, which has increased the propensity to notify. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that the whole metoo movement has contributed reasonably to making it somewhat less difficult to dare to tell about things that have happened and to dare to report, as now more and more people are telling about their experiences: You are not the only one who has been exposed. There is also – in this enlightened time of ours – a shame about this that the victim of such crimes feels, although all shame no doubt and exception lies with the offender. Mr President, I would like to Effective law enforcement isn't rocket science, but it's science. We know from the research quite well what works. This is why the Center Party wants to see an increased academic element in police education. Everyone agrees that we need to work hard on these issues, but we also need to work smartly. Then it is not good enough to try to cut either this or other important legal issues to deal with something else. On the contrary, it is directly irresponsible and will not contribute to any improvement. An example of when politics is at its worst was when the Prime Minister earlier this year proposed to deploy military personnel in the suburbs to combat gang violence. Anyone who knows anything about law enforcement just shook their heads. The Prime Minister then backed away from this crazy proposal, which is a good thing. But it shows how important it is that we show leadership in politics and take long-term responsibility for social problems and propose solutions that we know by the facts are very likely to succeed. In response to the Prime Minister's proposal to start a war against his own population, I and my party leader, Annie Lööf, wrote a debate article in Dagens Nyheter. In it we proposed a number of measures which, contrary to the Prime Minister's proposal, according to the research actually have a good chance of working and delivering results. The measures we proposed are part of what is called the New York model, and the part that I would like to stress in particular is the importance of clear monitoring of results. New York uses a system called Compstat. I'm not sure that's exactly what we're going to use in Sweden, but the example shows the power of good follow-up tools. The results have been very good, not least in relation to sexual crimes. Since 1990, the number of rapes in New York City has halved. This must, of course, be done together with many other measures. Without police muscle in the local community, we can be as smart as we can and still not get anyone convicted for crime. It is a fundamental problem that we have too few available and protective police hours worked around the country. That's why the Center Party is making a historic effort on the police. During the framework period, we are investing EUR 9 billion in order to increase the number of police officers and to enable the Police Authority to raise salaries and improve police working conditions. We are also investing in the country's women's and women's shelters, which must receive substantial funding, and we are proposing a doubling of funding for the National Centre for Women's Peace. When we do this, we also need to strengthen other parts of the legal chain, otherwise we will only risk moving the bottlenecks. The Center Party is therefore proposing a further effort of nearly 1 billion to strengthen the prosecution and police personal protection activities, witness protection, which is extremely important in the case of crimes in close relationships, and, perhaps most importantly, the National Forensic Centre, NFC. DNA evidence and other technical evidence are often crucial to obtaining convictions in this type of crime. The investigations must not be allowed to lie down. Tracks are cold, witnesses have time to forget, fewer can be convicted of crime and the victim then does not get his deserved redress. Mr President, I would like to It is unfortunate that the government woke up so late in this respect. Failure to act has made work more difficult and made conditions worse. From the Center Party we saw the needs already at the beginning of this term of office, and in Annie's Christmas speech in 2015 we announced a substantial budget effort on the police. That investment has been forced to grow every time we get a budget bill. Every day that goes by without anything being done, the problems become more difficult and expensive to solve. Now, late in the day, after three years of trying to force efficiency improvements by starving the police, the government has, however, changed its strategy when it finally realized that its own did not work. This is of course positive, but it was three lost years when the problems were growing, gang violence escalated and sexual crimes hit many more than otherwise would have been the case. The report we are now going to decide on is a late delivery, but it is, in any case, a delivery, which is, of course, welcome. I think it is 13 years ago that the Center Party was for the first time exercising on the introduction of consent legislation. This must be seen as part of a larger package where the negligence crime is also a very important part. Mr President, I would like to It should be seen as a success that there is now broad political agreement on these important issues. It is also very positive that the reinforcements and improvements proposed by the Alliance are being heard. These are not at all unimportant elements on which we are now announcing that the government will act. On the one hand, it is about raising the minimum penalty for rapes from two to three years, and on the other hand it is about tightening the penalties for the purchase of sexual services for children. With this, I really only have to support the proposal in the committee's report on these points. I have also worked a great deal on this report on the growing and serious problem of sex crimes committed online. I have therefore reserved myself in favour of our motion on this. Of course, I am behind both this and other center reservations, but for no time will I refuse to ask for their approval.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-32	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the government has finally put forward a proposal for a new sex crime law based on voluntary activity. The Christian Democrats have been pushing for a long time for consent legislation to be introduced, so that sex is always based on voluntaryism. We are in favour of the introduction of negligence. You shouldn't be able to get away with saying that you didn't understand, when it's obvious that the other one didn't want to. We also support the strengthening of the minimum penalty for gross rape and gross rape of children to prison for five years. It is important that the attitude of society and the judiciary towards rape victims is changed through increased knowledge and that the judicial process examines the behaviour of the perpetrator and not the victim in connection with rape. In order to obtain more convictions, it is first and foremost necessary that the preliminary investigations are of good quality and that they have been conducted rigorously and systematically. There must be special groups specialised in sex offences in all seven regions of the police force, and there is certainly a need for more police officers. Prosecutors also need to get into the investigations early, as well as plaintiffs. Mr President, I would like to There are several positive punitive measures in the Government's proposal that the KD supports. We want to see harsher penalties for sexual crimes. There are few crimes, I think, that so seriously violate the victim and her integrity as a sexual offence. The penalty must be proportionate to the serious crime involved. On the other hand, when it comes to rape of the normal level, the government does not propose a change in the scale of penalties. The government thereby fails to tighten the penalties for the most common sexual crime. Eight out of ten sexual crimes are just normal rape. A tightening of the scale of penalties for normal rape would mean that the crime was valued more equally in relation to other serious violent crimes, for which there have been penalties in the legislation in recent years, and should be able to impose more severe penalties in the majority of rape cases. Then, too, the penalties would be more proportionate to the crimes committed. However, I am pleased that the whole Committee on Justice has supported the Alliance's call to tighten the minimum sentence from two to three years in prison. Another important element in which the committee goes further than the government's proposal is the tightening up of penalties for the purchase of child sexual acts. I am pleased that a united committee supports what is proposed, among other things, in a KD motion: that fines are removed from the penalty scale and that the minimum penalty is increased from a fine to a prison sentence for at least six months. The maximum sentence is also raised from two years in prison to four years in prison. It is a powerful and very welcome punishment, Mr President. A purchase of a sexual act always involves a serious violation of the child, which is in a very vulnerable situation. In addition to this, I believe that deportation should be more often considered for persons seeking asylum or having a residence permit and committing sexual offences. We think that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals that satisfy it. However, I am abstaining for time from calling for approval of the reservation made by the Christian Democrats in the report. The penalties that exist here are important steps to take strong action against sexual crimes, but to succeed, more is needed. Harder penalties and more police officers are very important, but it also requires that we have a change of value, so that we treat each other with respect and dignity and early learn the difference between what is right and what is wrong. That is why we want to see an increased focus on this in long-term work, of course in school but also in civil society and, above all, in families. Parents should be supported to be role models and parents. There should be positive role models in civil society. You should get this with you early in school. We need to work on the change of valuation that needs to go beyond harsher penalties and more police.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-40	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is debating the JuU29 report, a new sex crime law based on voluntary activity. Screaming for help, kicking and trying to get loose while you're pressed against the ground – that's not how most people react when they're subjected to rape. That's not the way it usually works. Around 70 percent of all women are affected by a condition called a frozen freeze. It's a condition where the body can become paralysed. You can't talk or scream. Sometimes you don't understand what's happening, and the body can start shaking. Such authorisation does not imply consent. It's not voluntary. Being so afraid that your body cannot resist does not mean that you have expressed a voluntary spirit. That doesn't mean you've said yes. This must also be made clear by law, and that is why we are having this debate today. The New York Times reports on October 5 that many women accuse movie producer Harvey Weinstein of sexual harassment and rape. Actors like Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie and Rose McGowan step forward and talk about their experiences of the film producer's harassment. Harvey Weinstein is excluded from the Academy of Films, and his lawyer no longer wants to represent him. Actor Alyssa Milano writes on Twitter on October 15: If all women who have been sexually harassed, I also write In just a few days, metoo spreads global and viral. In Sweden, large groups of people in different industries are beginning to share their experiences of harassment and abuse in workplaces. In 2017, just under 22,000 sexual offences were reported in Sweden, of which 7,370 were referred to as rape. In 92 percent of the cases, the victim is a woman, and most often between 16 and 24 years of age. The basis for these abuses has often been laid when men were boys. Therefore, it is so important to work together for a strong and equal sex and cohabitation education that can interact with the school's work for security and against violations. We need to prevent it. We have to make sure the rape never happens. In the spring change budget, the government proposes that over SEK 100 million be added to preventive and competence-enhancing work linked to metoo, of which SEK 50 million is added to the school. Emphasis on gender equality and education can prevent future generations from experiencing this. But we also need legislation that creates trust in society and shows that it should not require threats, violence or a particularly vulnerable situation for an abuse to count as rape. Legislation that contributes exactly to this is what we are debating in this House today. All the parties of the Parliament have worked together in a parliamentary committee to develop a law of voluntaryity at six. This has led to the fact that Sweden's first feminist government is now proposing that the limit for criminal offences be reached if participation in sexual activity is voluntary or not. It should no longer be required that the offender has used violence or threats, or has taken advantage of the victim's particularly vulnerable situation, in order for the offender to be convicted of rape, for example. Special negligence is imposed on certain serious sexual offences. The minimum sentence for aggravated rape and rape of children is raised from four years in prison to five years in prison. In assessing, inter alia, whether a rape offence is serious, particular consideration shall be given to whether the offender has shown particular ruthlessness or brutality in view of the age of the victim. Criminal protection in the event of sexual offences against children is strengthened in the event of negligence on the part of the perpetrator in relation to the age of the child. Where a pre-trial investigation into a sexual offence has been initiated or reopened, the notice of a plaintiff's representative shall be made immediately unless it is clear that the plaintiff is not in need of such assistance. The committee also proposes that minimum penalties be imposed for both the purchase of sexual services for children and the normal rate of rape. The legislative amendments to the bill are proposed to enter into force on 1 July this summer. In concrete terms, these legislative changes mean that sex should be voluntary. This means that the penalties are increased to reflect the seriousness of committing a sexual offence against another person and especially against a young person. If you are exposed, support in the form of a plaintiff's assistant should be there quickly, preferably the same evening. In short, this legislation is about two parts: to make sure that sexual intercourse is voluntary between the parties, and to ensure that you do not behave recklessly towards someone you have sex with. Mr President, I would like to About a year ago, I got a phone call where a man wanted to explain to me that he designed an app. That app could include personal data that would then show that it had agreed to have sex. It would prove that it was voluntary intercourse. Technology can solve a lot of problems, but this isn't one of them. Sexual intercourse must be about continuous and mutual respect and communication, not always in words and definitely not through an app or some form of contract. But you have to be sensitive. For example, the other person may become unconscious, be speechlessly affected, sleep or fall asleep. There is then no communication to talk about, and then you should not have sex with that person. A good rule is simply that if you are going to have sex you should be able to communicate with the person in any way, and you should be sensitive to each other so that no one gets hurt. So negligence is about when you should have understood that a person cannot show or has not volunteered to participate in intercourse, and you do not need an app for that. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have fought for the button pressure for voluntary sex crime legislation to take place tomorrow in the Chamber at the vote. It is about individuals who have presented painful memories publicly to shed light on shortcomings in the law, organisations that have contributed their knowledge and all the others who have fought. They relate to organisations such as Fatta, whose representatives are sitting here in our gallery today listening to the debate. It writes on its website that the work against sexual violence does not end here. It ends on the day we have a culture of consent and a school that not only teaches the biological with sex. It is a society that is permeated by voluntaryity, reciprocity and respect. It is a society where the length of someone's skirt or if it has been a little bit is not relevant to whether volunteering exists. It's a society where you don't blame the victim. A consent culture is a society where the person who has sex always takes responsibility to check that everyone involved is involved in everything that happens. Mr President, I would like to In view of what I have just said, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-57	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. It is positive that the committee has arrived at two announcements. It is that the minimum penalty for rape should be raised from two years in prison to three years in prison and that the scale of penalties for the purchase of sexual acts by children should be tightened. This should be done partly by increasing the minimum penalty from a fine to a prison sentence of at least six months and partly by raising the maximum penalty from a prison sentence of two years to a prison sentence of four years. I shall also mention the positive point that the committee considers in its explanatory statement that the proposal originally made by the Moderates on gross sexual harassment is not considered to be final because some parts of the new legislation will cover what was previously considered sexual harassment. There are parts that will not be covered. There, a united committee believes that the government has not concluded the previous announcement of aggravated sexual harassment. That's a good thing. Generally speaking, in this context, there is reason to say that sex crime legislation has undergone a major through-recast that it has been subject to a large number of changes, extensions of the criminal area and tightening of the penalties. The previous rule on rape has come to include not only violence, threats and coercion, i.e. means, but also such things as helpless state and particularly vulnerable situation. It was not included in an original provision on rape. In time, however, it has become apparent that there are situations where victims are unable to resist. Sexual offences and sex law have been discussed frequently and often loudly over the years in connection with mediated decisions where prosecution against defendants has been dismissed. I would say that the discussion has at times been unsound and reactive. The solutions put forward to the perceived problem of acquitted sentences have often included in practice training requirements for judges and other actors in the judiciary. This, in turn, has been aimed at some form of general knowledge to replace, where appropriate, the lack of evidence. Of course, such a thing is not possible in the rule of law. The basic principles are to prove that someone has committed a crime. The same requirement of proof – beyond reasonable doubt, or in other words proven – shall apply in all criminal cases. At the same time, it is difficult in some cases to get convictions in sexual crime cases that sexual offences belong to the category of offences that are most difficult to investigate and thus difficult to prove. There are often no direct witness sightings. To the extent that there are witnesses, they can generally only tell of how the plaintiff has behaved in connection with an alleged event, what has been said after the incident, and other indirect observations. In addition, there is some technical evidence which is of course important and in addition to the plaintiff's own data. There must be a review of the credibility of the plaintiff and the reliability of the information provided in such situations when the prosecution is essentially based on the plaintiff's own story. The Court must then, in principle, examine a checklist to see if there is any reason not to take into account the information of the plaintiff. One of the most important success factors for a prosecutor to achieve a conviction is that there is a high-quality pre-trial investigation, preferably in conjunction with technical evidence that has been secured as close as possible to an alleged crime. There is an improvement potential here, and this has also been clearly pointed out by the Sexual Crimes Committee. Preliminary investigations of quality, accuracy and clear documentation of the plaintiff's information from the first hearing and other evidence are therefore of paramount importance. The new legislation will not change the problem of proof in any way other than that greater focus may be placed on the plaintiff in situations where the question is whether there is actually a voluntary participation. In the other situations where funds have been used, the previous legislation can be said to apply in the same way as before. If you talk about rape and situations with clearer elements of violence, threats or coercion, but also about situations that correspond to today's provision on particularly vulnerable situations, the issue of voluntary participation does not arise. Although voluntary participation would have been expressed, this does not apply. The question of voluntary activity is therefore irrelevant in these situations. The problem of proof in this type of case, especially if we are talking about rape, is, instead, typically, about trying to tie an unknown offender to the crime from the beginning or otherwise prove things that are already in focus in rape cases. The question of voluntary legislation is therefore irrelevant in these contexts. What is added by legislation based on voluntary behaviour is the type of situation that was not previously covered by the rape clause, when it was only about funds. There may also be other situations which are not covered by provisions on particularly vulnerable situations or previously helpless permits. Today's compulsory regulation involves full acceptance of people's sexual self-determination. The starting point for today's sex crime legislation is that every person's desire not to have sex should be unconditionally respected. Thus, consent is central also in the current sex crime legislation, but perhaps it has not always been brought to the attention in the way it should be. The conclusion of this is that the proposed legislation on voluntary activity will not in itself lead to further convictions. There is a need for good investigation and for the police to invest more in this, for example by introducing sexual crime units in all seven police regions. On the other hand, on the question of the two new offences of negligence that are being introduced, one can expect more materially correct and convictions where intent has not been proven up to now. For it is often the case that people who have been noticed in the media debate after a goal have not been convicted because they claim not to have understood that the other did not accept the sexual act they have committed or committed. In these cases, where we are talking about gross negligence, it can be said that if a normally found person in a similar situation would have understood that the whole thing was not voluntary, it is negligent not to understand it. That's when you're convicted of negligence. It is good that this is introduced. Finally, and again, the main reason why relatively few reported crimes lead to conviction today is the problem of proof. It will always be associated, above all, with the more serious forms of sexual crime. The solution is thorough and systematic pre-tests. It is also important that the prosecutors get into the investigations early and take the relevant measures and that a plaintiff's assistant be appointed as soon as there is a reason for this and as soon as a preliminary investigation has been initiated. A plaintiff cannot compensate for past deficiencies during the pre-trial investigation, but can, however, provide significant support for the plaintiff to be able to make it through the entire preliminary investigation and trial. The proposals need to be seen in a holistic way. In many parts, the proposals will provide clarifications, in some cases already in force today, and in some other respects, the proposals also provide real and tangible clarifications and improvements in relation to the current legislation on sex offences. Although we have some concerns that the plaintiff may be under higher pressure in certain situations and that the focus on the plaintiff can thus increase, we feel that overall – not least because previous case law can still be used – it has become an acceptable and good overall solution.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-74	Mr President, I would like to Today we write history. A decades-long struggle to put every woman's, every person's, right to self-determination and sexual integrity at the centre goes to the goal. In 1962, violence was required to have broken the ultimate resistance – only then was sexual abuse criminalised as rape. Only then could it be committed within a marriage. In 1984, the extenuating circumstance was removed that made crimes between married persons less serious. Then they also changed so that even threats that appeared to be dangerous, but that were not, actually make rape a rape. In the 1990s, documents that are sex-like but not sexual are included. 2005 could have been the year when the idea was finally settled that a woman's body is available until the opposite is proven. However, the Riksdag chose not to introduce a consent law at that time. Mr President, I would like to So we see a gradual shift where the focus is more and more on the violation to which the victim is subjected. More and more, sexual integrity is at the heart of the issue. Nevertheless, the opposition to removing the demands for violence, threats or exploitation of a particularly vulnerable situation has been very strong. As I said, in 2005 we thought there would be a change. While this was not the case, the Environmental Party set up its own shadow investigation to produce a proposal for a consent law. Madeleine Leijonhufvud was hired and produced one. At the same time, the debate in society continued, and the government set up its own investigation. The government's investigation also proposed a consent law, but the government chose not to proceed with this. The Parliament voted against a consent law at that time. It was not even a month 2013 before it became apparent that even the small steps taken were not enough. Party after party has subsequently joined the reasonable position that sex that takes place without volunteering is violence, rape. Today, we are debating a legislative proposal on the table of Parliament, which means that the law says exactly that. In addition to the Act on Consent, negligence is now being introduced. We raise the demands of someone who has sex with another person to find out that the other person also participates voluntarily. We look at the model in Norway that it works, and we see that it is needed. The idea that everyone should understand what is happening in such an intimate situation has been an obstacle. For the fact is that in the judges, the courts conclude that although the victims have shouted 'no' until they have become hoarse, the perpetrators may not have grasped. But with the negligent props, we make sure that people can't be so stupid and get away with rape. Mr President, I would like to More perpetrators will be held responsible. One of the most important ways to achieve this is to provide early support to the victim. A high-skilled plaintiff should be present immediately when the criminal investigation opens in order to be able to sit at the hearings and support and explain why those incredibly offensive, difficult and intimate questions need to be asked and urge the police and prosecutors to take further action. All studies indicate that this will have an effect. The report also tightens up the penalties for gross rape and, above all, strengthens the protection of children. All in all, we will see to it that more guilty people are convicted. The government is also working in parallel to raise the knowledge of lawyers, because it is needed. We are now making sure that knowledge of men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is a requirement for the legal programme. Mr President, I would like to There are many who have worked for this change, and there are many who will celebrate when the club falls tomorrow. I would like to thank all the fellow human beings and sisters who have pushed this demand through Fatta and other organizations and through participation in manifestations—all of you who have given a voice to this need and all of you who have shared your stories. In particular, I would like to say to Madeleine Leijonhufvud: You have instilled courage in all of us when we were told that what was right was not possible. Thank you! Thank you also to all colleagues here in Parliament who in your respective parties have driven these questions tirelessly. Anti Avsan is obviously not very enthusiastic about the consent law, but I am glad that Anna Kinberg Batra took the Moderates on the train. Mr President, I would like to The Consent Act does not mean the end of men's violence against women or sexual abuse, but it marks the beginning of a time where women's bodies are never available until proven otherwise. I support the proposal in the report.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-86	Mr President, I would like to I have to say something when Annika Hirvonen Falk says I'm not that enthusiastic. You can be exuberantly happy about many things in life, but when it comes to serious crime, it is difficult to feel happiness even if you talk about improvements to a system and if you think that this system has not worked. It is difficult to get something perfect when it comes to legislation. I think it is appropriate to be a little humble and also to understand that it may be a problem if, for example, one finds oneself in a situation where the plaintiff has initially voluntarily participated in sexual activities but then at some point, with full respect for his own sexual self-determination, tried to express that it is enough. Life is complicated, and so are all these situations. I think it is appropriate to actually lift the finger of warning that in certain situations the plaintiff may be more exposed than before. The two alliance governments also made some changes to sexual crime legislation. Among other things, it was about frozen-fright situations. What we know is that this unfair issue is perceived as very offensive. But the question is, What is appropriate when the prosecutor has the burden of proof? I think that the direction of the two alliance governments should be pursued, namely to try to reduce the pressure on the plaintiff as far as possible. It is bad enough to have been subjected to serious crime if it can be proved.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-89	Mr President, I would like to Although, of course, I hope that we have reached our goal, I am also humble and realise that in the future others may find even better solutions and perhaps find problems that we have not been able to anticipate with today's legislation. But that said, this is a great feminist victory, and I'm celebrating it. What the Alliance did not do, above all, was a law of consent. Small adjustments were made and small steps were taken that brought us closer to this legislation. But it is today that we turn our perspective completely and say that sex without volunteering is rape. It is true that there will continue to be very difficult evidence situations. We are talking about crimes that are often committed without witnesses and where shame is often very large and an obstacle to reporting directly. But by now changing the legislation and making clear where the line between crime and non-crime is going, I think we can make it clear to all those who will be exposed in the future that what they have been subjected to is actually rape and that it is on their side that the law stands. With good support for plaintiffs, we can also counter inappropriate, offensive issues in the courtroom. Unfortunately, the fact that we now have a consent law will neither increase nor reduce that risk in itself.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-92	Mr President, I would like to What is important to emphasise when we talk about consent law is that earlier draft consent legislation has not been adopted by the Riksdag, just as Annika Hirvonen Falk said. The reason for this is that it has been a different form of the legislative proposals from this proposal that we are debating now. This proposal is based on voluntary participation and is designed in a more resourceful way. One of the most important things in this context is that all previous case law can be retained. One of the fundamental objections that I and my party have had to previous proposals has been precisely the need to establish a new case law. This would clearly lead to fewer convictions, at least initially. And that is not what anyone wants to achieve when we talk about sex crimes or any crime at all. So it is important to keep in mind. Therefore, this solution, compared to all previous proposals – if we take the broad approach, based on consent – is better and more resourceful. There are a variety of things that need to be done conscientiously and carefully. I've met a lot of victims of sexual crimes. I have not only met them as Members of Parliament, but have judged in many such cases. What is very unpleasant and offensive is not being taken seriously. Challenges are incredibly important. It also includes holding a proper hearing with the plaintiff if such a claim is made. You shouldn't go on and value yourself. That's what the court will do. I have seen examples of people with language difficulties who have not been given an interpreter, and no one knows what they have said the first time, perhaps not the second time either. There is an improvement potential, and this is the case with the preliminary studies.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-97	Mr President, I would like to Anti Avsan and I fully agree that it is possible to improve criminal investigations and that it must be done. That is why, among other things, we are adding a record increase to the police. And we are now ensuring that plaintiffs are appointed from the outset. But we also call on the police and other authorities to improve on the points where they have seen opportunities for it themselves. Mr President, I would like to However, let us not pretend that we always agreed on the consent law or that the arguments were simply that the legislation did not last. In fact, the most common argument that opponents of the Consensus Act still argue is that it would not be necessary. Here I think there is an important difference between us who are feminists and who want each person's own sexual integrity at the centre and those who think it is perfectly okay that almost in any case is covered by the law.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-99	Mr President, I would like to The patriarchate falls within my lifetime. The patriarchate falls within my lifetime. The patriarchate falls within my lifetime. Sisters, feminists and activists! We did it. We did it. We have once again pressured the power of the Patriarchate over our bodies, over the lives of our sisters, and demanded freedom. We have demanded freedom to live our lives without a constant fear that the man will come and take all that is ours. We have demanded freedom which means that it is not our fault when we are subjected to a crime. We have turned the debate to the real problem, that women's bodies are seen as something that anyone can exploit. But every step towards women's freedom takes insanely long time. It laughs. It's under attack. Freedom for women is provocative. Our desire to live with the same freedom as a man is something that others laugh at. But they won't laugh again, sisters. We demand our right. We have pressured the patriarchy. We've been screaming hoarsely. And now here we are. I want to thank all of you. Mr President, I would like to Sexual crime is now a crime regardless of whether the man has understood or realized it or not. And yes, I say it is the man who is the criminal because 98 percent of all sexual crimes are committed by men. The guy can't say, I didn't get it. I didn't understand what you were doing, or what I was doing for that matter, and then-- poof-- it's not a crime anymore. It's such a crazy, out-of-date view that I'm going to be completely dull. I am also quite happy that we are now taking a big step away from the view that it is such a great pity for the man who can neither understand nor do right. But it only applies when it comes to sexual activities, especially with women. In all other cases, we have no problem giving men power and wages as well as the entire capital of competence. With this legislation, there will be no shadow on the one who did not clearly say no, who did not scream, kick, wave and run away. The shadow and judgment will fall on the one who did not ask and who did not see that the other person did not want to. With a negligent crime, we can, without lowering the standards of proof, get more convictions. This kind of team structure captures cases where the offender should have known that he acted unjustly. For many other criminal acts, it is a matter of course to combine the requirement of intent with a negligent crime. It is also possible to apply it to rapes. A person would thus be guilty of a crime if the circumstances were such that the offender should have understood that the victim did not want to have sex. This is a good thing. This legislation focuses on actual action and not on the person's inner attitude toward his or her own behaviour and actions. Anyone who opposes this must somehow feel that it is only in sexual activities that people become completely incapable of communicating and understanding each other. Of course it's not like that. People can still talk. On the other hand, women in particular are not able to communicate when we have sex. That myth has been exploited to its own advantage. It's over now. Mr President, I would like to We need to talk about the man. Several studies show that girls and women consciously or unconsciously adapt their lives in different ways because of fear of violence and violations. In everyday life, women act on the basis of an understanding of the presence of violence, i.e. an underlying threat of violence against our privacy and our bodies. We consider that there is always a potential risk of violence. In this way, violence affects and restricts the lives of all women to varying degrees. It creates insecurity that restricts women's freedom and room for manoeuvre. It also has the consequence that all men are perceived as potential perpetrators, as in any given situation it is impossible for a woman to determine in advance who is dangerous and not. It's not about collectively blaming all men. It is about daring to see the reality that prevails and understand the collective fear of women. It is against this background that we need to talk about the male role, about the expectations, structures and notions of masculinity that today's men are surrounded by and that future generations are brought into. It is not enough simply to amend the legislation to better prosecute those who threaten, hate and rape. We must also see how masculinity standards, masculinity, power and violence are interrelated. We must see that stereotypical gender roles affect men's behaviour and views of women and LGBT people, and then take action for change and eventually perhaps achieve a society free of sexualised violence. The Left Party knows that it is not harsh punishment that will lead to more conviction of rape. Nor may the law we are debating now be. But the Act of Consent has changed the whole political and social debate. Now everyone knows what consent is and that it is now consent that we relate to. However, there is a great deal of work to be done. It's about the police's expertise in sexual crimes, how to do the tracking and how to secure the evidence. And it's still a crime even if the girl makes the report not until a week or six months after the crime has been committed. It is in rape sentences that the evidence of support has the greatest importance. It requires faster processing at the National Forensic Centre, so that prosecutors have all the evidence in place and can go to court. The court must have the knowledge and desire to dig out of its sometimes misplaced attitude to what a rape should be like. The girl does not have to be the perfect victim of crime – not being drunk, not having had previous sexual contacts and not being dressed badly. Sex crimes can actually be committed even if the girl has a short skirt. All this has been raised year after year by the Left Party. Some things we have got through, such as the great metoo effort in this year's budget negotiations with the government. We're very happy about that. But this does not happen without blood, sweat and tears. It is a struggle for freedom and rights. It is one of the pillars of my political commitment and that of many others. That is why I would like to thank all of you once again. Above all, I would like to thank all of you who are sitting in the gallery today. It is you who have ensured that large parts of the political parties have changed their position. It has been a long and solid struggle. Above all, it has been a feminist struggle. The struggle for women's freedom always hurts and always takes a long time. We will never give up. Thank you! I support the committee's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-118	Mr President, I would like to In 1978, I was 20 years old. I was a young feminist from Kungälv who had moved to Stockholm and started studying at Juridicum. It wasn't the Fortress of Feminism. There was an extraordinary associate professor in criminal law named Madeleine Löfmarck. She then had the respectable age 36 years and was an important role model for us young feminists who studied law in Stockholm in the 1970s and 1980s. Madeleine was a guest at the Legal Association's pubs and talked about the importance of women in law and the importance of a feminist perspective on law. It feels fantastic to be able to take part in today's debate and vote tomorrow on the current legislative proposal. I would like to use Annika Hirvonen Falk's words: We write history. Madeleine Löfmarck, who eventually became Madeleine Leijonhufvud, is perhaps the single most important individual when it came to ensuring that this became possible. She and civil society, not least the young civil society with the Fatta movement and other organisations, have been the driving force. I would like to highlight the Green Party and the Left Party, which have seen and pursued these issues at an early stage. But please excuse me: Madeleine Leijonhufvud, as she is now called, and civil society has nevertheless played a crucial role. It is important for me to begin my speech by thanking Madeleine and all of you who are represented in the gallery today. Mr President, I would like to There are many of us who have contributed to this in various ways. My little feather in my hat is that I was the gender equality minister in the government that wrote the directives. But now that we're here together, we've bashed it so far that we're all in agreement. I think that's important. The fact that we now have more modern sex crime legislation, which is clearly based on voluntary activity, is a very important step. Several of you have underlined this. But it is only one step of many that we must take to reach the goal: a society where every person's sexual integrity is fully respected and where no girl, girl or woman is subjected to any violations due to her gender. Here it feels obvious to say girls, girls and women, because just as Linda Snecker and Annika Hirvonen Falk stressed, 19 rapes of 20 women are the victim. Sexual violence against women is the extreme expression of the regime of power that systematically restrains women and girls and prevents them from having the same freedom as boys and men. Ever since those years in the 70s when I became a feminist, I have spent my time in and outside politics working consciously on these issues. It provides perspectives that I would like to come back to. Not only in this decision, but also in the past, civil society has been behind it when the big stones have begun to roll. In fact, in the 1970s this force was released by a notorious sex crime investigation. It was a government investigation of seven men and a woman who in 1976 proposed lowering the penalties for rape in order to de-dramatise the issue. The Committee also wanted it to be seen as an extenuating circumstance if the raped woman had made sexual invites before the abuse. So the guilt of victims is nothing new, but through such a provocative investigation proposal civil society and the women's movement came to their feet. The reactions to that investigation led to the development that we are now a part of. For example, it was decided that it would not be a mitigating circumstance if the abuse took place within the framework of marriage. Rape rules also became gender neutral. In the 1990s, new steps were taken. It was my then chief, Bengt Westerberg, who initiated a women's violence commission, which then led, among other things, to the violation of peace and the reduction of women's peace became special crimes. Today, my friends, or rather tomorrow, we are making a number of important changes. My colleagues here have developed well. It's about volunteering. I would add that it is obviously a delicate task in any such case. These are individuals whose legal certainty we must guarantee. Anti Avsan, Johan Hedin and Andreas Carlson have pointed out in an exemplary way what this requires in the form of police efforts, trained police officers and thorough investigations. One of the most important things we highlighted in the investigation where I was involved is the role of the plaintiff. On this issue of negligence, I think that perhaps in a few years' time we will say that this was the really important step that we took with this bill. I would also like to refer to the metoo debate that we had in this House a few months ago. This is a discussion that has been going on for decades and which was not triggered by it, but it is still part of the same movement. It is about the same need to raise these issues. The driving force behind any historic change towards equality has been precisely such spectacular and upsetting events. This has led us to move from words to actions. Let's put the legislation in place. It's not enough. This is an important part of the response to the actions required by the Metoo uprisings. As we move from words to actions, we need to give more impetus to all gender equality work. It is about the new sex crime legislation, but it is also about so much more. It is about making preschool and school a safe place for both girls and boys where they can develop into free individuals without limiting gender roles. It is about giving the integration of newcomers a gender equality focus. It is about half the power and the whole salary and about what is the basic gender equality work. On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-133	Mr President, I would like to What I have missed the voice of liberal feminism in the Committee on Justice, Maria Arnholm. You are a warm and amazingly pleasant feature of the climate of debate that we have in the Committee on Justice. It is about competence in feminism, about structural hierarchies and indeed about the patriarchal society in which we live and what it does with more than 50% of the population. I want to thank you for a wonderful speech. You are very welcome back. There are two announcements in this report. I'm a little curious to hear how all bourgeois think about them. There is an announcement to raise the minimum level from two to three years for normal rape. I'm a little worried it won't be as good as many people hope for. I am concerned that it will not be the case that more people will be convicted of rape when we raise the minimum level. I'm thinking about the preliminary investigation, the lawsuit and what it's like in court. The demands are high today, and that is such a long punishment when we start from three years ago. It will be very difficult to find all the evidence and to make the high and good demands that we want in the legal process. I am afraid that, once we have pushed the limit a little higher, there will be far too many who do not come up in normal rape. It's a concern I have. I hope that is not the case, but unfortunately I think it will turn out that this bites us in the ass. What do you think about that?
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-136	Mr President, I would like to My studies at the Juridicum never came to an end but I got quite far, and I have read both criminal law and procedural law and I am very committed to these issues politically. Nor do I belong to those who believe in harsher penalties at all times. However, I object to the idea that it would be a little easier with the demands of proof if it were only two years in prison. I do not remember it that way, but the rule of law is absolute. The tough demands need to be placed when sentencing someone to a prison sentence whether it's two or three years old. As far as the punishment for rape is concerned, I too, a bit of a penitentiary flutter, am prepared to say that, with regard to this very serious crime, I believe and we on the Liberal side, well represented by Roger Haddad in the Committee on Justice, that this is a reasonable and important step to take.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Arnholm, for your answer. As far as my studies in law are concerned, I can say that we probably have the same experience in that world. No, it is not, of course, that we somehow see that there is a lower burden of proof if it is two years than if it is three years, and that is what we are looking for. My concern is precisely that we are consistently and constantly raising all the penalties, as is done in the Committee on Justice. We are raising exactly all the penalties that can be found, exactly all the time, because we are in a political debate where increased penalties show the power of action from politics. We're in an election campaign right now. I do not always believe that this will lead to the best form of legislation that we can do in this House. One is driven by the fact that harsher penalties seem good. Then the polls will increase. But just when it comes to rape, where the level of judgment is so low, one should probably think both once and twice before raising the penalties, especially when it comes to the minimum level. I don't think the maximum sentence has the same impact as the minimum penalty. There will continue to be a lot of crime. And when we consistently raise the minimum penalty, there will be many who will not be prosecuted. I hope that's not the case. I hope that this consent legislation – and this with negligence – will lead to a societal change in attitudes and that boys and men will stop acting as if women's bodies are their rights. I also hope that the judiciary will be able to prosecute and judge in a more professional way than is sometimes the case. But I'm a little worried about the minimum level of penalties. I hope I'm wrong.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-143	Mr President, I would like to I also hope, Linda Snecker, that the patriarchate will fall during my lifetime, even if it may go even a little faster then. I think the most important thing we can do to stop men's violence against women is about preventive work, about the norm of masculinity and a lot of other things. I believe that we will prosecute and convict more, not primarily because of voluntary activity, but because we are also punishing negligence. So we agree quite a long way. Nevertheless, I am surprised at the way things are on this particular point. When it comes to how one of the law's most disgusting crimes should be punished, the Left Party and Linda Snecker are extremely worried that it will be a year too much. I think it is only a consistent follow-up to the tightening up and the change of perspective we are now doing. I really hope Linda Snecker's concerns will be put to shame.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-145	Mr President, I would like to We shall now debate what I may actually describe as a difficult issue. It is a question that contains many different questions on a fundamental level and on a moral level. It is about how we look at fellow citizens, how we get effective legislation in place and how Sweden relates to other countries. However, my hope is that today's debate will allow us to take a few steps forward. We have a very extensive begging in Sweden today. It is about up to 4,700 vulnerable EU migrants. There is no study – nothing – that shows that it is no way out of poverty to have begging as a livelihood. And Sweden stands out in comparison with other European countries, that is, this is very weakly regulated in Sweden compared to what it is like in other countries. I think we have all heard reports about the fact that we see a very high degree of organisation of this begging. There are often reports that individual beggars even have to pay money for a place to beg in our country. The police even report that some of these already vulnerable people are now being used twice. Not only should you beg in the street during the day; the evenings should be spent in private apartment brothels. Then we can say a few things, we have criminal law in place to face this. That is the case, and we expect the police and the other judiciary to act against those parts. But we must also be honest and see what comes in the wake of Sweden continuing to stand out in comparison with other countries in this area. These are difficult questions. We see that it is often large groupings of criminal actors that control very much of this activity. It's very hard to find evidence. Not infrequently, there may be different forms of kinship. I remember when, in April 2015, Beatrice Ask and I wrote a debate article proposing that the organisation of begging should be banned. At the time, the political support for this type of proposal was very weak in Sweden. But there was also a sensible and reasonable debate on this. Now we finally have a legislative proposal on the table, a proposal which is essentially about criminalising precisely this organisation of begging that we unfortunately see in Sweden. It is interesting to note that when we vote on this, we will probably be a united parliament behind this proposal. I think that is excellent, but I would like to remind you that this bill will not be enough to seriously ensure that we do not have widespread begging in Sweden. We will also have to regulate this through a national ban. Basically, I think this is a matter of principle. Should we in Sweden normalize that individual vulnerable people should have to beg for their livelihood? Should Sweden as a developed welfare country be a country that sends the message to all vulnerable people: Come to Sweden! Here you can beg for your future! I mean, we have to face the truth. This is about vulnerable people, particularly from Romania and Bulgaria, who cannot fully benefit from their human rights, i.e. their home countries do not take sufficient responsibility for access to education, health care and jobs that can provide a reasonable future. I believe that the answer to vulnerable people in other countries cannot be that they should seek their future in Sweden. Instead, we must put pressure on those countries that do not give their citizens reasonable rights. It is about working with NGOs on the ground in order to help vulnerable people. I think that one should be very honest and say that a national begging ban will not help the individual vulnerable person, but that we send a clear signal that Sweden is not open to an extensive begging and that we do not want to normalize begging as a livelihood. At the moment in the political debate, Mr President, very many different models are being considered. It is reasonable for us to have a public debate and to think about what could be a way forward. Here I would specifically like to address the Social Democrats. The Social Democrats have now indicated in various ways that they do not think that this extensive begging should continue in Sweden. Different types of models are now under consideration, and one model that is highlighted as a possible solution is the so-called Eskilstuna model. The municipality is now making proposals to seek permission to beg. It is no secret that the municipality is doing this to make it difficult to beg in the individual municipality. I think you should be honest and say it. It is so clear that this also comes from the Social Democrats locally. I think the fundamental question you should ask yourself is: Do we really think that we should establish a system where you should seek permission to beg? I think that would be the wrong way to go, and I hope, Mr President, that the Social Democrats can make it clear here in the debate how they view future regulation of begging. I have full respect for the fact that this issue can be discussed differently, because it is a difficult question. It is about vulnerable people you meet on the street, people who are in an extremely difficult situation. But I also hope that more parties realise that we cannot continue as we are right now. We are pursuing a very strange policy from Sweden right now. We have come forward with legislation to ensure that these vulnerable people's so-called settlements are removed. We are now saying that we think it is wrong to organise begging. But we are not doing anything that will seriously change the situation. If we want Sweden to get away from a widespread begging, it will require national regulation. The fact that individual municipalities have different solutions will only move around this. The more fundamental question you have to ask yourself is: Do we think that we should normalize begging in Sweden or not? The Moderates will go to elections on a national begging ban.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-161	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report on criminal protection against trafficking in human beings and human exploitation. In addition to the proposed penalties which the Swedish Democrats welcome, we have a reservation for this report that has not been entirely undebated over the years. The Swedish Democrats have analysed the problem and the problem picture of the widespread begging at an early stage and have proposed what really makes a difference. National responsibility for the return of foreign beggars requires a national begging ban. Since the Swedish Democrats proposed a national begging ban several years ago, the Moderates have now also chosen to join the proposal for a national begging ban, and they are also behind the reservation in this report. As I said, the issue has not been entirely undebated. Some week ago I had an interpellation debate with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, where he clearly announced that there is no support for a begging ban in any form either in the government or in the Social Democratic Party. Mr President, I would like to We note that the political debate on begging has so far gone about the same way as so many other issues. First, the problem is denied by the rest of you. The organized begging was a right-wing extreme, fascist-racist myth, and the Swedish democrats were the evil personified who denounced the obvious. Then the token begins to fall down with the rest of you, and under increasing evidence around the country and, not least, pressure from popular opinion, you are beginning to change. All of a sudden there was organized begging. Suddenly, the government also sees that the begging in Sweden leads to human trafficking. The understanding of the problem is of course a good start, but the government has now had that insight for half a term of office. At the same time, the government announces that, in the new knowledge, decisive action has been taken. The problem is that these decisive measures have not resulted in any difference at all. The number of foreign beggars who stayed in Sweden before the government took the decisive measures and the number today is basically the same, namely 4 000 – 5 000 people. If someone has left the country, it is probably not due to anything the government has performed. Mr President, I would like to If the Swedish Democrats had been left to decide, we would have solved this problem in a couple of weeks. By then, all foreign beggars had been allowed to leave the country, hopefully to their own home countries with better conditions to establish themselves there. When the very precondition for human trafficking or human exploitation ends in Sweden, as we have seen through the begging, we have done our utmost to prevent crime from the beginning. It is of course gratifying that this year the Moderates have chosen to act in the Riksdag by supporting the proposal for a national begging ban. But it can be said that the widespread begging in Sweden was not something that arose in the summer of 2017. If you want a party that sees the problems at an early stage and proposes measures to combat them at an early stage, I think that most people in this House, and also for this matter, understand that the Swedish Democrats are the best option. Now, the Swedish Democrats' proposal for a national begging ban will not win the support of the Parliament today, but the good news is that there will be an election in a few months' time. There are very clear positions on the begging issue. This makes it easy for voters to choose the right party. If you want to continue to see a widespread begging in Sweden where traffickers strengthen their positions, you should vote for one of the other parties. If you want immediate solutions that break the networks that exploit people and a solution that moves foreign beggars to leave the country, vote for the Swedish Democrats. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-170	Mr President, I would like to We in Sweden would like to continue living in our safe bubble and would rather not be reminded of the misery that is going on around the world or as close as in the neighboring apartment. Such an attitude is a betrayal of the people who are tormented and exploited. On the other hand, to dare to stare evil in the face and see it for what it is, that in the midst of all misery still dare to hope and believe that a positive change is still possible... and turn his anger into trying to bring about a positive change... – so, Mr President, Detective Simon Häggström concludes his book Night City, which is based on the human fates and terrible reality that he faces around Stockholm and in the rest of Sweden during his work against prostitution and human trafficking. A person always has the right to control his life and body. Taking the right to use another person is something that can never be accepted. It is both cynical and a serious violation of human dignity. Trafficking in human beings not only affects human rights, but is often a part of organised crime. It concerns equality between men and women, poverty and social and economic disparities. The majority of those who are victims of human trafficking end up in prostitution, and 95% of these women have a pimp who controls them. These pimps don't care about the women. They have no respect for them and do not care whether they are tired or if it is freezing out there. They still send them out on the streets or force them to take additional customers into the apartment... to make the pimp make more money. Preventing and combating trafficking in human beings has long been a priority for Sweden both nationally and, above all, internationally. The Swedish penal provision was introduced in 2002 and aimed at human trafficking for sexual purposes. In 2004, criminal liability was extended to other forms of exploitation. Effective and effective criminal law regulation is needed, and international cooperation is needed. This is not a crime that remains at national borders, and coordination and interaction between the relevant authorities at national level is also required. In June 2016, the Government decided on an updated action plan for the protection of children against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse. The County Administrative Board in Stockholm was given a continued mandate to strengthen coordination and to develop knowledge support for social services and healthcare in order to increase the ability to detect children who have been exposed to, for example, human trafficking or other abuse. This assignment was transferred on 1 January this year to the newly formed Gender Equality Agency. This provides better conditions to conduct and develop the work in the long term. In February 2018, the Government decided on a new action plan against prostitution and human trafficking, which also includes human trafficking in respect of begging, in order to prevent, counteract and provide protection for and support for those who have been exposed. Noah has a human trafficking group. Anyone who has met Detective Simon Häggström, whom I quoted at the beginning of my speech, and who has heard the stories and human fates he has encountered in his work is not left untouched. If there's anyone who hasn't read his books, I can warmly recommend them. It is tough reading, but you feel that this is a job that absolutely must not stop. On the contrary, efforts must be stepped up. But, Mr President, there are difficulties in applying the penalty that exists today. There is therefore a need for more effective regulation. On the issue of trafficking in human beings, it is proposed to clarify the so-called unfair means. The requirement that circumstances have been such that the victim lacked any real or acceptable alternative other than to submit to the trade measure shall be expressed in the legal text as a serious limitation of the person's options. Criminal responsibility for offences against a person under the age of 18 shall also apply in the event of negligence regarding the age of the victim, and the minimum penalty for trafficking in human beings, less serious crime, shall be increased to six months in prison. The maximum sentence for gross leash is to be raised to prison for ten years, which also means that the limitation period is extended. Mr President, I would like to The exploitation of vulnerable persons is a growing problem. There is a need for criminalisation when it comes to exploitation in various types of work or services, i.e. forced labour or labour exploitation. These may be working for a very low salary or even unpaid job in areas such as construction, cleaning, restaurant or agricultural activities. The same assessment is made with regard to the exploitation of begging. This form of exploitation, according to the government, has increased not only in recent years but is also, at least to a large extent, seen as linked to organised crime. Many times it is about people living in their own countries in severe poverty. It can be about people who are in debt by borrowing for the trip here, or that vulnerable people are forced under threat of violence to beg and perhaps pay for things that are free of charge, such as a place to sit. This means that the protection of criminal law against the exploitation of vulnerable persons at work or begging also needs to be strengthened. A new classified crime is introduced into the Criminal Code: human exploitation. The offence consists of unlawful coercion, misleading or exploitation of a person's dependency, insecurity or difficult situation, exploitation of a person in forced labour, work under manifestly unreasonable conditions or begging. The sentence is proposed to be imprisonment for a maximum of four years or if the offence is serious imprisonment for a minimum of two and a maximum of ten years. All legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2018. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-184	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helene Petersson. It was a good account of the legislative proposals that a united parliament is about to adopt. That's excellent. Mr President, I would also like to express my support for the proposal in the report and also for reservation 2. Let me also return to reservation 2. It is, of course, the Moderates' proposal for a national begging ban, a thorough proposal which, unlike the Swedish Democrats' previous proposals, is also compatible with EU law and non-discriminatory. My idea is whether the Social Democrats are now prepared to give a reply. Are you open to going forward with national regulation of begging? Or is it rather that you are preparing proposals to move towards what is usually described as the Eskilstuna model, that is, that the Social Democrats want a system in which individual beggars should seek permission to beg in Sweden? Would that be my concern and my question: Do the Social Democrats really believe that the proposals we are adopting now and any future proposals that the Social Democrats are working on will seriously reduce the widespread begging in Sweden?
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-187	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé said in his speech that this is something that we want to be normalised in society. No, I can say, it's nothing we want to normalize. But how we handle it can probably be seen in different ways. This government has done much in terms of contacts. There have been many contacts with representatives in the home countries – Romania and Bulgaria in particular – in order to increase social efforts there. We have also looked at how to handle this here in Sweden. There is the legislation that we adopt today and on which we also agree on one of the issues that we have considered important. Laws and rules need to be tightened up. We have a congressional decision, which we made about a year ago. I can read it out literally: This is exactly the part we are raising here today. 中 The possibility of eviction of unauthorised settlements needs to be improved ..................................................... We conclude the Congress decision by saying: a review of the Order Act – the same rules need to apply in all municipalities. It is a key point that we think is important. We do not think that every single municipality should have to deal with this itself and in its own way. However, how we want to proceed with this solution has not yet been found.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-192	Mr President, I would like to That's right, what Helene Petersson mentioned-- I don't think we should normalize begging. But, frankly, that's what we've done in Sweden. We've seen it before, but now we've consolidated it. It's normalized today. I believe that the vast majority of those who watch this debate can testify that they have met individual vulnerable beggars outside the grocery store or in the streets and squares. It is, so to speak, a new phenomenon in Sweden, this widespread begging. Mr President, I would like to I think it is clear that the measures taken are not enough. I honestly believe that the government also realises that they are not enough. Perhaps that is why Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has stated that every penny you give to a beggar you risk giving to serious organised crime. I'm a little opposed to that reasoning, I'll say. I believe that responsibility is transferred to the citizens rather than taking political responsibility on this issue. I have noted that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven finds the Eskilstuna model very interesting. But if I correctly interpret Helene Petersson, I almost see it as the Social Democrats are now open to rather regulating this at national level so that we will not have different ways of facing the widespread begging of each individual municipality. The sharper question is: do the Social Democrats exclude the introduction of a national begging ban?
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-196	Mr President, I would like to I do not support or exclude anything when we are in the process of preparing a question. But our congress decision is that we do not want to place this responsibility on the individual municipality, but we want to review the law of order. The same rules need to apply in all municipalities. I cannot give Tomas Tobé any other answer.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-197	Mr President, I would like to It can be said about the Eskilstuna model: Eskilstuna is my hometown. In fact, I remain in the municipal council, where my colleagues at the beginning of their term of office just proposed a permit requirement for begging. The current councillor from the Social Democrats then called the proposal something that is only being done in fascist states. Now, a few years later, the Social Democrats themselves present the same proposal in the municipal council. Speaking of how the debate has sounded historically and how the proposals have developed in the meantime, I thought it was a funny anecdote in this context. But as many have pointed out, it is not an effective solution to wait for what individual municipalities are doing to counteract the widespread begging. If you have a national-wide begging, it requires that you have national legislation in place. The Swedish Democrats have made it clear that we need a national begging ban to tackle this problem. Despite the government's efforts and understanding that it leads to human trafficking and human exploitation, we have had the same number of foreign beggars, vulnerable EU citizens, in Sweden throughout the term of office. It hasn't diminished. You have not achieved any major results on this issue, and if anyone has left Sweden it has not been due to anything that the government has done but rather to other things. Other countries have overcome this problem by introducing different types of bans. My question to the government is of course: now that we agree that the widespread begging leads to organised human exploitation, why do you want to continue to allow begging on our streets in Sweden? It's like the opportunity that makes the thief, and it's the opportunity to raise money through begging that makes human exploiters and human traffickers strengthen their positions in Sweden. Why do you want to continue to make it possible to beg in Sweden?
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-201	Mr President, I would like to I can give no other answer to Adam Marttinen than I gave to Tomas Tobé. We see that the issue is a matter of concern. This exploitation has increased. Trafficking in human beings in this area has increased and increased. We have a congressional decision that says we're going to do a review of the Order Act. It is available at national level, and there is the possibility for municipalities to make some local regulations on the basis of the National Order Act. There's a congressional decision, not a government decision. It is quite important to say it clearly. It was not the government that adopted it, but the Congress of the Social Democratic Party about a year ago. However, in the action plan adopted in February 2018, the government wants to continue to strengthen coordination, strengthen preventive work internationally but also nationally and improve the ability to detect. They want stronger protection and support and more effective law enforcement, because there is trafficking in human beings in these activities, of course, that is what we can prosecute. There we have good legislation that we will decide on tomorrow and stick here in Parliament. It is a huge step on the road to getting to this, because is there something as cynical and as anti-human as dealing with people?
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-205	Mr President, I would like to It is of course great that the government party Social Democrats understand that it is worrying that we have a widespread begging in Sweden. But I think it is also worrying that this begging has been allowed to continue for so many years, throughout the entire government period, without the government having taken a single action that has countered the widespread begging that leads to so many terrible things as human trafficking and human exploitation. If you think it is cynical that it exists, it must be even more cynical not to have the political courage to counteract in government the conditions which create this very cynical exploitation of vulnerable people. It must be the worst of all, I think, especially if you are in government. I think that the answer is guilty of why they continue to allow begging in Sweden, when it is the basic prerequisite for these networks to exist and operate in Sweden. I think I have received quite clear answers from the government parties in several contexts. I had an interpellation debate with Morgan Johansson where he said that begging bans were not on the agenda either for the government or for the Social Democrats. Nor does Helene Petersson, who represents one of the government parties, give us any other answer as to whether a begging ban will be imposed. Instead, it will continue to allow begging in Sweden. The networks will continue to exist. Even if we adopt legislation that criminalises to a greater extent – you raise the penalties and such things – this is based on people reporting crimes from the very beginning. This is rarely done if you are in such a strong position of dependence on these traffickers as many do. I think we need to tackle the basic problem: money that comes in from the very beginning. We must have a national begging ban that quickly resolves this and breaks down these structures, which lead to ruthless exploitation of people in Sweden. But that is the clear choice that voters have to make this autumn: whether they want to vote for the government parties, who are doing nothing, or for us, who are actually proposing effective measures.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-210	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is up to the voters if they want a perhaps more humane view of this issue than the one the Swedish Democrats stand for when talking about an absolute, unconditional ban. However, Morgan Johansson has, as he said, given Adam Marttinen an answer: that is not our line. We have the Congress decision to which we shall relate, and on that basis we are now working. However, it is also stated in the action plan, which is a few months old, that greater international cooperation is needed. We need to develop knowledge and methods. There is much to do, at national level, but above all in contacts and discussions at European level, in terms of interaction with the countries from which these people come. I have no other answer to give to Adam Marttinen today.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-213	Mr President, I would like to In autumn 2002 the film Lilja 4-ever premiered in Sweden. It was just when I was about to start second year in high school. It touched me, and I don't think anyone who saw that movie or who saw it after that has forgotten it. The film Lilja 4-ever was about the girl Lilja from the former Soviet Union. She falls in love with an older guy and gets an offer to come to Sweden and Malmö. But the older guy has fooled her roughly, and she's being ruthlessly exploited. Lilja becomes day after day, week after week, sold to men of different ages and in different situations until one day she manages to escape and then kills herself. We've probably all seen horrible movies and we can take it, but what was special about this was that it wasn't fiction but was based on real events– not exactly of course, but the reality was unfortunately not better. Danguolė, her real name, was 16 years old and came from Lithuania in the late 90s. But it was just to Malmö she came, and that's where she died. Things have happened since the late 1990s and the early 2000s. The Internet has developed in a way that is mostly good, but in this particular area it has had consequences because prostitution and pandering have been able to be hidden away in a way that was not as easy in the past. Another difference is the European Union and free movement, which is fantastic in many ways but also has a reverse: people can be exploited. That is why we need to follow developments in controlling criminal organisations and in other ways as well. In this case, the penalties for pandering and trafficking in human beings are being tightened up, and that is justified. There is a broad consensus on this here, and that is also a good thing. The punishment is a part, but it is important to remember that there are others as well. Prior to this matter, the Consensus Act was debated. One might think that this is a completely different issue, but it goes hand in hand. What norms and attitudes exist in society also plays a role in the issue of human trafficking and leashing. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say something about the issue of begging, for the reasons set out. Of course, none of us want it to exist. We don't want people to have to be so vulnerable. The Roma, which it has come to be about in the debate in recent years, are an incredibly discriminated group in Sweden and around Europe. It is regrettable that the Moderates are going to elections on a national ban, for there is nothing that will solve anything for this group. But we see that this in the moderate window Vellinge is something that one prioritises the highest of all and fights for right up to the Supreme Administrative Court. I would like to call for those reservations to be rejected but for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-222	Mr President, I would like to Freedom to move freely across Europe's borders is a great opportunity, and many Swedes use it in several ways. The small entrepreneur finds customers in Germany and develops his business, earns money and hires more than would otherwise have been the case. The young person is looking for the adventure and may find it at a French university or in a kitchen. Those who have worked a whole life may dream of spending the darkest months on the Spanish sunboard and taking evening walks in the lukewarm Mediterranean breeze. We use our freedom to move freely within the EU to make our lives a little better. Similarly, people in other European countries dream of a better life. Some are well off, while others are shriller. And some people in Europe are very poor. They lack the means to what we feel is the most basic. Many of these are poor because they have lived in countries plagued by the wet blanket of communism and socialism over all that growth and development is called. In addition, some of them are discriminated against – racistly condemned as worse people who do not deserve to have the other because they were born into a particular ethnic group. This is, of course, extremely serious and something that the European system should have helped to resolve for a long time. There are, at least until we have a new long-term budget in place, funds set aside to help Europe's poorest people so that they can break out of the vicious circle of living out of hand. However, these funds must pass through the states of these EU citizens. It is clearly not the case that those states give priority to working on these issues, because the problems remain. This is the work of the Center Party at European level. We want aid organisations to be able to benefit from the funds allocated directly, without having to pass through the Member States. It was not long ago, Mr President, that poverty was very widespread here in Sweden. We know about what took us out of poverty. It was entrepreneurship, free trade and a market economy. I think it was then the Minister of Finance, Johan August Gripenstedt, who in the 1850s or 1860s laid the foundation for hugely important reforms, which made Sweden go from being an out-of-date, mercantilistic state to being a modern market economy, with all that that entails. We got 100 years of growth, which took Swedes out of poverty. The same effects – free trade, entrepreneurship, market economy, capitalism, if you like – lift people out of poverty all over the world every day. Sooner or later, these people will also benefit from it, and we must put every effort to defend the important values of enterprise, free trade and a market economy. This is the solution to the enormous problem of poverty worldwide. Mr President, I would like to The bill we are now debating is a good one. It aims to protect some of these poor and most vulnerable people, and that must be the guiding principle. There are many aspects of poor people being in our streets and squares, visible to us Swedes, who probably feel that we have left that time behind. Sometimes some people seem to believe that these people don't exist if we don't see them. But they do exist. And the means they manage to scrape together for a long day outside Konsum can make a difference so that the family can eat enough or get a roof, albeit never so poor, over their heads. And certainly there is both organisation and human trafficking. An old lady I talked to told me that her grandchild needed care — care that the family could not afford. Then she had borrowed money from a percentager, and to pay back this she had committed to doing what she now did in Sweden, that is to ask fellow people for a gift. She didn't do it to ruin our aesthetic experience of Konsum's entrance. She did not do it to cause disorder or litter. She didn't do it because it's fun to sit day in and day out in the cold and wind, which had to go straight into her long - worn joints. She did it out of love for her grandson and because she had no alternatives. Mr President, I would like to Some people argue that a ban would be a way of helping these vulnerable people, and of course I have every respect for such an approach. The problem is that it is difficult to find support in research so that this would be the case. When this debate started to take off, we in the Center Party made a proper analysis in this area, and if the aim is to help the most vulnerable, we could not land in anything other than that a ban would be counterproductive. Until the last turn of the year, the County Administrative Board of Stockholm, as Helene Petersson mentioned, had a special coordination function against human trafficking, and when I talked to them and asked if a ban could help to get more convictions for human trafficking, the answer was unequivocally no. The explanation is to a large extent that, in order to obtain convictions, almost all cases require the active participation of the plaintiff. If, at the same time, the plaintiff himself has committed a crime by allowing himself to be used to beg, the incentives to participate in such a process will be even less than they already are. Research.se is a good source for quickly finding useful input to speeches that I'm going to make and other things. I also recommend it to all colleagues and everyone else. When I look there, I find most support for the fact that a ban does not help, but, on the contrary, risks causing trouble properly for these already vulnerable people. I also find on the same website a lot of useful things about anti-Ziganism and online hatred and things that I think we will need to pay a lot of attention to here in Parliament and elsewhere in the future. I share the view of my good friend and esteemed colleague Tomas Tobé on this issue – it is by no means simple. But when you have to make a difficult choice between two things, the Center Party must choose the line of humanity.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-239	Madam President, I would like Trafficking in human beings is largely about both class and gender, about people with more power and capital using people with significantly less opportunities to do things that no person who had a choice would do and about that poverty and economic vulnerability and the extreme inequality that exists both in Sweden and in the world create a crime that is unimaginably offensive and inhumane. This is the most disgusting face of capitalism, and there are probably many of us who do not want to see the consequences of it. But it is there, and through legislation we can access certain parts. But it is by reducing inequality and vulnerability that we can prevent situations like this from occurring at all. Being a woman or a child means far too much to be in a vulnerable situation. The oppressive structure of the Patriarchate exploits the subordination created by a male superorder. It is women who are exploited by men, and it is children who are exploited by men. And this is because there are great differences between the distribution of power depending on the gender you have. Women have less power, financial resources and freedom, in both Sweden and the rest of the world. Unfortunately, it cannot be denied or blamed that women may have chosen a lower income or other factors that give her less power and influence. We see this systematic division and that it is great when it comes to crimes against people, which trafficking involves. Madam President, I would like Nor can this really be done away with. Although I would of course have liked to see a law banning inequality, I realise how unreasonable that is. This is why systematic inequality can only be prevented with social measures and economic instruments. That is also why it is extremely important to have judicial competence when it comes to trafficking in human beings. It is a broad category of crimes that can happen, from forced labour to trafficking and forced prostitution. This is why we need a broad battery of both knowledge and understanding through all parts of the judiciary. The Left Party believes that the bill addresses important aspects of the problem and hopes that legislation combined with social action is the right way forward. Madam President, I would like When some parties try to ban poverty by testifying that this is done because of goodness and concern for the poor, it shows the ugliness of a class policy that starts from the fact that it is disturbing to see a beggar outside the grocery store when the Friday cozy is to be purchased. It is not about helping poor people from Bulgaria and Romania, but it is about an approach where some people are actually less worth than others. It is not surprising that it is Parliament's real right-wing parties The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who propose this very thing. Never has the understanding of vulnerability been less than that of parties that are only for the rich. In a classless society, no one would have to beg. And no one should have to beg. No human should have to rely on other people's good will and thick wallet. Freedom is to be able to have your own economy and pay for yourself. But it is not done through bans or fifty-seven job tax deductions. It can only be done through a policy that creates equality. For equality gives freedom, and freedom is to be able to pay your own rent. I support the committee's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-248	Madam President, I would like First of all, the Liberals would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Justice as a whole. These are proposals and measures relating to trafficking in human beings and human exploitation. This is not a new issue. Already in 2014, the then alliance government set up an investigation to tackle the problem of trafficking in human beings. When you listen to the debate here, whether it is about collecting money, begging, prostitution or trafficking in human beings, you might think that this is not criminalised, but many of the crimes involving human trafficking, prostitution etcetera – exploiting someone for economic purposes – are already criminalised. The problem and the motive for why we must take steps forward is that we have far too few people in Sweden who are convicted of these ruthless crimes. The Liberals welcome the fact that the minimum penalty will be increased, that the maximum sentence will be raised from eight to ten years in prison and that there will also be a criminal classification: human exploitation. These changes may seem to us to have more convicted, and I hope so. That is why we are anxious for these proposals to be approved. We have a number of judgments that are being tried in the judicial system now. In November 2017, Örebro District Court sentenced three people to four years and two months in prison for having used and forced Bulgarian citizens to beg in Sweden. The case was appealed to a higher court and these persons were released in the Court of Appeal a few months ago. Some time ago, the Prosecutor General decided to proceed to the Supreme Court to have the case examined. Madam President, I would like Why do I mention this example? I do so because if we just raise the scale of penalties, it is not certain that we will have these villains, these perpetrators, convicted. It also requires evidence, witness information and good police investigations. What we in the Liberals want to emphasise in particular is the need to focus the resources of the police, but also the drafting of this legislation, so that it meets the perpetrators. It is not the elderly lady of 65 who sits outside Lidl in Västerås that I am looking for when I stand here and talk about tightening up the law on human trafficking and human exploitation, but it is the others who force her to beg or who charge for her to sit there and collect money. It is also all about what happens behind the scenes, whether we make these decisions or not, namely those who exploit young girls and women for sexual and economic purposes. They're the ones we're gonna get to. We share the government's view in the bill that these may be important steps. That is why we have no reservations. However, in order to make a critical point to the government parties, I would remind you that when, in 2014, and in the spring of 2015, we in the Committee on Justice called for penalties for those who have committed human trafficking or other serious crimes, the S, V and MP voted against our motion. There is a reservation in the report of February 2015 in which we called for penalties. However, these are precisely proposals for what we have now received at Parliament's table, namely that pandering, human trafficking and human exploitation should be punished harshly. I welcome this proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-256	Madam President, I would like This question is not quite as dry as one might think at first glance. Basically, this is an extremely topical and very good thing, namely cutting red tape for our municipalities, so that the public system can act more effectively to maintain and create greater values for our citizens and benefit more from our tax money. Already today, municipalities can collaborate and interact with each other in a variety of ways. Quite often when it comes to more complex collaboration, it takes place, among other things, through municipal associations. This may involve, for example, a municipality wanting help from an employee in another municipality with various things – the exercise of authority or similar tasks. But today it takes a huge amount of bureaucracy in the form of companies, associations of municipalities and large regulations to know that you are doing this on the right side of the law. With this Government proposal, this is made easier by means of a direct possibility of contractual cooperation. That is good, and we are from a moderate point of view in favour of that. But we see that there are certain risks in how this can develop. That is why we have a reservation that we want a follow-up rather soon after this legislation comes into force. We also want another follow-up when it has been a few years and you can see how it has developed over time. What we are concerned about is the use of the right and the possibility of contractual cooperation for other purposes. This may, for example, apply to a municipality that participates in a procurement and bids in a procurement that another municipality already has. Municipalities are bound and, even with this legislation, must be bound by only performing services of public interest in the interests of society for their citizens. For example, they should not start caring for the elderly in another municipality. We are simply concerned that this legislation is being used to a little too much. That is why we want a clear follow-up to this. This would ultimately also create competition problems on the market. That is why we are very keen that this should be followed up. You can read more about this in our exercise. But this is a fundamentally good proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-262	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that I agree fundamentally with Ida Drougge that this is a good thing. The background to these proposals is, of course, that we have a situation where we have municipalities like Bjurholm – I think it is the least – with a few thousand inhabitants, and a municipality like Stockholm with 1 million inhabitants. There are 500 times the difference between these municipalities. Basically, they have the same tasks. It is, of course, difficult for many of our very small municipalities to maintain competence and to have an economic efficiency to serve the inhabitants when you have such a small base. In many different areas, the specialisation of professions has gone very far. In the past, you may have had a municipal engineer who knew a little about water, street lighting and how to fix holes in streets. Today these are different specialisations. Coping with this with a very small base can be very difficult. On the county council side we have such a situation that three of our county councils or regions have half of the country's population, namely Stockholm, Västra Götaland and Skåne. The 18 other county councils share the rest of the population. Then you also understand that there are very different conditions for managing the tasks. Yet when I fall ill, I want to be able to receive the same care whether I live in a county council with a small population base or if I live in an area with a university hospital. This means that there is a very great need for collaboration between both municipalities and regions. Perhaps the wise one will say, ‘ Why don't you go together? ' This can easily be said. It's much harder to get through. It is easier to share a municipality than to merge municipalities. It is very easy to form a team around some place and say: We have nothing to do with them in that big city. We can do better ourselves. It is much easier than between two competing places, where you have always hated each other in football, saying: Now we will form a municipality together. This often falls into referendums, even if it goes so far. As far as the regional question is concerned, one state inquiry after another has sought to find an appropriate regional division for the country that makes this more rational. It has also proved very difficult. There are administrative ways of cooperating today, as Ida did, namely through local government associations. They are administratively rather complicated. It will be a large superstructure to solve tasks with that part. Therefore, there is a need for the possibility of easier transmission of data between municipalities and regions – this type of contractual cooperation. On the basis of reality's call for rational solutions to the needs of citizens, I therefore support the KU's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-275	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU30 A general right to municipal contractual cooperation. It is by no means news that many small municipalities in Sweden have had problems maintaining or employing specialist skills. Sometimes it may not even be about a full - time job, but you may need help a few hours a week or something like that — perhaps temporary support. Sometimes you may see that the specific skills you are looking for are in the neighbouring municipality or region, and that is problematic because current legislation limits. As a result of the localisation principle, a municipality is prevented from taking action in another municipality. A large number of municipalities solve this, just as several have been involved, by forming municipal federations – with all the problems it entails in the form of indirectly elected politicians and that it is sometimes difficult to really interpret who decides in a particular case. The proposal we now have on Parliament's table is therefore very welcome. The government has put forward proposals, and that is also the proposal we have supported by the KU. The proposal allows municipalities to engage in contractual activities. Through the change in the Local Government Act, municipalities and county councils can transfer the performance of certain tasks to a municipality or another county council, and the changes are proposed to enter into force as early as 1 July this year. As I said, the legislative changes have been very much awaited. The Government stresses in the bill that, as a result of the development of society, municipalities face significant challenges. In many of the referrals, the various municipalities and county councils really see a need for these increased opportunities to collaborate. The proposal from KU is that we agree with these legislative amendments, which allow municipalities or county councils to perform tasks for another municipality by contract. Then you can still say that there is a more distant border here; the idea is not that a municipality or county council should be able to relieve itself of all its tasks. Nor is it the idea to increase the possibility for municipalities and county councils to participate in procurements in competition with private companies. That is not the intention, but the intention is indeed to solve the problems that many municipalities see on the base plane today. Madam President, I would like I support the KU's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-281	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee proposes that the Riksdag adopts the Government's proposal for amendments to the Local Government Act and a number of other laws, which will provide general opportunities for municipalities to engage in contractual cooperation. This is an issue that the Center Party has pushed on, among other things, in Sweden's Municipalities and Landsting, SKL. The intention is to be able to transfer tasks, including those that are regulated by law, to another municipality – even in its own area, where services may be exchanged between municipalities in different ways. As we in the Center Party see it, such collaboration is better. It is better for democracy for municipalities to work together than for municipalities to be merged. It is important, but the way in which this will be implemented is of course important. This means, for example, that different municipalities, if they have not already done so, can now start discussing what forms of collaboration they can initiate. They can start with various forms of collaboration even after the election. For example, two municipalities agree that one municipality will take over certain types of environmental tests that will apply in both municipalities and that the other municipality will take over certain building permits matters in the other municipality. The type of collaboration where specialist competence is needed will thus be much easier for municipalities to cope with without, for example, having to buy in external competence. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-285	Madam President, I would like I forgot to endorse the reservation I spoke for, so I want to start by doing so. But it became practical to start and end a debate; I do not think I have done that before. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to mention a few things. It has been suggested that this is good for many smaller municipalities, or perhaps especially more sparsely populated municipalities – it may be municipalities that are very large in their area but where there are not as many people living. There is no doubt that this is a great advantage for them, but we know that there is a great demand for this also in metropolitan regions such as Stockholm. There we are already trying to do this today. For example, supervision, which has been mentioned as an example here, is already trying to work together on – but it is done with some hesitation as to whether or not to do so. So that's good. As has already been said, we fully support the proposal but would like it to be said that this should be followed up, since the proposal does not explicitly prohibit municipalities from submitting tenders in other municipalities' procurements. So that's what we would have liked to have followed up, and already today we said that we want to follow up.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-288	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by calling for the approval of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 2. The proposal we are going to discuss is to impose certain restrictions on ministers and secretaries of state. Briefly and somewhat simplistically, the proposal is for a board to be set up to examine whether it is appropriate for a government minister or a state secretary to take up a new position and move on to private business. It is a good thing that the government is making an effort to regulate to some extent the activities of former ministers and secretaries also outside Rosenbad. It is not least a question of maintaining public confidence in government officials and, of course, of upholding the constitutional principle of the objectivity and impartiality of state officials. This is, however, a proposal which unfortunately does not go all the way. Let me therefore explain how the proposal could be made even a little better. My view and that of the Swedish Democrats is that these rules should also include Heads of Government and other civil servants whose transition can cause conflicts of interest and affect public confidence in the state. At the same time, it is important to point out that this regulation must not constitute a professional ban by making it impossible or significantly more difficult for managers to move to employment in the private sector. I also miss the most obvious professional category, Madam President, namely trade unionists. Karen's and subject-matter restriction should, of course, also apply to the social partners. The conflict of interest in being a minister and then adopting a high position in, for example, a trade union is obvious, or should be obvious to most. In addition, the proposal states that no sanctions are needed to ensure that these regulations are complied with. The government refers to the practice which is now considered to apply to us in the Constitutional Committee, where the ministers assure that they will appear at hearings when the committee calls. We opposed this solution and believe that a decision by the Council for the Review of Transitional Restrictions by Ministers of State and State Secretary should also be combined with some form of sanction, such as a periodic penalty payment. In practice, a law without punishment means that the law can be ignored, which is, of course, unfortunate. It is therefore, in principle, inappropriate to legislate without any means of sanction. Now, Madam President, I would like to mention something about the composition of the Board. According to the bill, the Board is to be appointed by the Riksdag and consists of five members. It shall be chaired by a Judge or a former Judge. In addition, the Board shall consist of at least one additional person with a judicial background, who shall replace the ordinary Chairman, at least one person who shall have been Minister of State and at least one person who shall have been Secretary of State. However, when the Board is appointed by the Riksdag, it is inevitable to see that there is a certain political link. The Board should — whether political or not — have the support of persons with good legal knowledge, such as judges or former judges. In addition to this, we believe that the parties should be free to nominate who they want and those they find most appropriate. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the fee. It can be assumed that the workload of the Board will be very variable. For example, there may be far more matters to be dealt with in the event of a change of government than for long periods with a stable majority government. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that the members receive a meeting fee rather than a fixed fee. Unfortunately, this has been rejected by the other political parties.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-299	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report is called "Some conditions for ministers and state secretaries" and is based on a proposal from the government called the same. I would like to start with a point that has not been given much attention in this proposal, namely the possibility for ministers to take parental leave. The construction of being a minister is such that you always serve. You can be admitted by the Prime Minister to be absent from government work and meetings if you are ill or have some other pressing problem, but you always serve. There has been a lack of clarity on parental leave. This applies in connection with newborn babies and perhaps a little longer but also vabbing; how will it work? It has been felt that this has been an unsolved problem. It may not have been a problem economically for the ministers, for it is a well-paid profession, but is it right to withdraw a 100% contribution as a minister when it is assumed that this is what you should be? The Prime Minister cannot recruit ministers who only serve 12 or 22 per cent when one of their colleagues is gone because of parental leave, for example. An investigation was set up in general political agreement. It has made its proposals, which resolve this problem by maintaining the government's presence as a minister of state and having the opportunity and duty to take note of documents. Phone calls and e-mail exchange may occur, but the Government still has the opportunity to be on parental leave. It can be said that a symbol of this is that the economic conditions for this are being made equivalent to the conditions for other officials in the Government Office and also – I think – but I have not really seen the rules there – in some other places in the public sector. It is therefore legitimate to ask to be able to wriggle. There is a sign that you do, but the deduction is just as great if you say that you can now do nothing but be at the disposal of the Prime Minister in the event that your presence is absolutely needed and that you are at home at 100%. The deduction on the salary for this is 10 percent, as well as whether you're banging, picking up children or leaving in the morning and coming too late and not arriving until ten o'clock or something like that. This is a solution that we are going to get started, and I think it will stimulate other people – even high-paid people and people in important decision-making positions – to say: If it is possible for the government, it must also be able to go in other leading jobs. ..................................................... I hope that we get nice pictures of vabbing ministers; it is in this way that it can be a bit of a forerunner! The second part of the proposals under certain conditions for ministers and state secretaries is that we should introduce a care clause, which I will allow myself to read a little about: The Minister of State and State Secretary shall always endeavour, both during and after their assignment and in the case of State Secretary, to act in such a way that there is no risk of financial damage to the State, undue advantage to any individual or damage to public confidence in the State. This is an ethical regulation that the Government and the Secretary of State should always think about when, for example, you hear about or get a kind of offer: ..................................................... More may not have to be said, but already this hint is not correct. The Government must consider whether this is right. It must then be possible to say that you cannot answer anything but that you are not available for that proposal, because it is contrary to what is to be followed in accordance with the draft law on restrictions on the transition of ministers and secretaries of state to non-state activities. Madam President, I would like For this to be steered, a board will also be appointed. Every minister and secretary of state facing the situation of getting an offer to look for a job – either because they have left or are just about to do so or because they intend to do so later – is obliged to report the situation that has arisen to this board. The Board may then decide that the person may not take up this task for 12 months, because there is a risk that the knowledge that the person has about the central decision-making processes in our country or in relation to, for example, the EU may be beneficial to his new job and employer, but at the same time negatively to the state. This is a rule that will be introduced on 1 July. It will apply as the elections become clear and we may have a change in government formation and changes in government and government positions. We believe that this is a proper way of dealing with the risks of feeling that knowledge is being misused. We believe that this law – the care that I read out – will already work in such a way that individuals who take on these jobs and responsibilities also understand what the concept of integrity means. The trust of citizens shall be maintained. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-318	Madam President, I would like As a speaker after Björn von Sydow there will be a variation on the theme; it will be two-way. However, we can do things differently, even if we agree to the proposal for a decision contained in the KU42 report in the same form. Three-quarters ago we talked about vulnerable groups in Sweden, namely beggars and people who are sexually exploited under slave-like conditions. Now we are going to talk about a very privileged group of people, namely the Swedish Government and its State Secretary. The group is small but has now been awarded their own law on how to do when to get away from government work and out into other activities, how to make a so-called transition. This has been unregulated in the past. It's worked out well sometimes. However, it has become a lot of attention in certain situations, when one has moved from a government mandate to something that one may even have regulated as a government member, namely to switch to a position of trust in a company or an organization. I would like to say in parenthesis that the Swedish Democrats are concerned about the risk of government members moving quickly to the labour market organisations, but they will be treated in the same way. It is not a question of just being able to move to the business community, but this board will test whether it is reasonable that, for example, a moderate Minister of Justice will immediately become something big in the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise or the equivalent. I know that the Swedish Democrats have been thinking about some other organisations. It is about a group that is perhaps 50 people who have had the absolute highest confidence you can get in Sweden and have also had the highest responsibility that you can have in Sweden, i.e. the responsibility for governing the kingdom. These people should of course have an activity after they have left the government. One can imagine that these people who have had this trust should still have judgment and understand for themselves a little hint, as Björn described, that they should not, of course, say yes to such activities, but that they must wait until they have resigned. Now, however, the investigation and experience have shown that regulation is needed, a benchmark for how to behave when this happens. The three type cases are well described. First of all, it is something that can harm the state. It may also be an undue advantage, either for the outgoing Government or the Secretary of State or for the organisation or company to which it belongs. Last but not least, it is important that there is no damage to public confidence and what the public thinks of the outgoing members of the government. Then, as always, a balance must be struck. One can imagine that it should be a withdrawal period of 6 months or 24 months. In business, this has been tested. A severance pay fills the function that the person who has it should be able to oppose their own board and say: I do not think your proposal is good. I'm resigning. Then you have your livelihood arranged. But severance pay also works as a withdrawal, because in many of the CEO agreements it is written that you must not go to a competitor during a withdrawal period. It works then by being supported. It's the same idea here, so it's supposed to be a karensen. It has been concluded that a year is the right time, and that is a matter of assessment. There's a little finesse in the whole thing, and that's that the board, which I'm going to say a few words about, can also decide if a restriction in the type of mission. The Board may say that it is not allowed to work in a particular area, for example, to work on financial issues if you have been Minister of Finance Market. So there is a restriction on the subject. There should then be specific questions, and they must be quite detailed. The special review body proposed to be set up with the fine name The Board for the Review of Transitional Restrictions by Ministers of State and State Secretary will perform a different function than the mere examination of cases. It will also fulfil the function of standard setting, so that the outgoing ministers and state secretaries and future employers do not have to take the lead in the debate, but the question and criticism can be addressed directly to the Board. I think it will stabilise the discussion. The parties do not have to take action on their own behalf when they are going to work anywhere. I would also like to comment on the Swedish Democrats' motion. They want to broaden the circle to include Directors-General and perhaps high judges and other appointed people in the state administration. That sounds good, but it will lead to incredibly difficult practical circumstances, because it means that you have to introduce the pay for twelve months to, for example, Sweden's judges. Shouldn't they be able to go over to associations, become lawyers or something like that? Shouldn't people who have been high up as CEOs and chief executives be able to switch to something else and have to wait for a year? Then they won't even be employable. You don't want to hire someone if you have to wait a whole year to get the person in question. It was probably the right idea, but it went wrong in practice, I am absolutely convinced. That would require considerable equipment to do this. On the other hand, side jobs are already regulated, and perhaps that is what it was all about. To popularize this, one can say that the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Defence may well go back to the Swedish Armed Forces and become general but cannot become Deputy CEO of Saab. And the Minister of Social Affairs may well become Director General of the Social Insurance Fund but not of Folksam. I have already called for the draft decision to be approved in the KU42.
i-E7uJY26MBc3cYyvSTRbxeu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Dag Klackenberg, for the questions to the Sverigedemok Democrats concerning our reservation! Basically, we think the proposal is a good one and a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, as in many other things, something important is being forgotten here. One introduces a rule, but one does not impose any possibility of sanction. So there is no criminal liability. That is to say, in practice, this becomes a rule that one can ignore. Perhaps the only punishment will be an evil article in the newspaper, but it may not be so relevant when you resign as a minister. When it comes to expanding the circle, I think there is another circuit that we should talk about and which should be included in this. In my speech, I mentioned the word'specialists'. I think that questions can be asked about how good it is for confidence in the whole state apparatus that the Minister skips to the social partners immediately after the end of the service within the state. These are issues that we raise in our reservation, and I think they are relevant. Dag Klackenberg is happy to explain his objections, and I look forward to an interesting exchange of views.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-335	Madam President, I would like We'll just have to test our way through. I am absolutely convinced that the pressure that would be put on a minister of state or a State Secretary in the event of a transition that the Board has said should not be done, but it is still a sanction that will suffice. Then I do not understand that a transition to any of the social partners would be particularly toxic. In that case, transitions to banks, insurance companies and other organisations would also be problematic. But the thing is that it is the Board that decides this. Now the board has not met and is not appointed, but we can imagine interesting questions, such as that, for example, Minister Bah Kuhnke but not Minister Damberg can become CEO of Svensk Handel.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-337	Madam President, I would like But this is exactly what the board has to test. I hope that both I and Dag Klackenberg still have confidence in the people who will be appointed to the Board and that they will do a good job, and then they will have these balances as they should. Suppose that the Governor of the Riksbank – now the Riksbank is, of course, an authority during the Riksdag – would move to a private bank as CEO or to another top position. Today it may be difficult to regulate it differently and put a stop to it, but I think that this is a person who should be subject to certain transitional rules when it comes to switching from one such job to another. It would be extremely sensitive, and it would definitely bring competitive advantages. I think this is a problem to be addressed. We do so in our reservation, and it is regrettable that the Moderates and other parties do not choose to meet us.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-340	Madam President, I would like We have elections every four years. We now have the opportunity to introduce this from 1 July. Let us do so on the basis of the proposal that is before us. After that, the Swedish Democrats and other four years have to come up with new proposals that it should be expanded or to evaluate how the work is done.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-341	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU42 Certain conditions for Minister and State Secretary. The previous speakers have already presented the proposal, which is about imposing restrictions when the Minister or State Secretary takes a new job. The proposal aims to protect the State from the risk of information being disseminated in a way that could harm the economy or otherwise. The Government's proposal is long awaited and an election promise that both the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats and the Left Party have previously given. The restrictions are regulated by a new Act on restrictions on the transition of ministers and secretaries to other activities. As Dag Klackenberg explained, the proposal is in many respects similar to what is in the business world. As a commentary on the change of line, this already applies today to the Governor of the Riksbank as the Riksbank has this type of transitional rules. The government and the KU have also looked at these rules. The government's proposal, which is dealt with in the committee's report, also allows ministers to take child leave. The amendment is implemented in the Act on Fees to Ministers and more and means that a deduction of a Minister's fee shall be made by 10 per cent per day when the Government is wholly or partly absent to take care of its child – if the Prime Minister has admitted such absence. So it is not entirely free to take child leave. Furthermore, it is proposed to amend the Act on Publicity and Secrecy, which provides for confidentiality to apply to a matter under the Act on restrictions on the transfer of government and State Secretary to other government activities for information on the personal and financial circumstances of an individual if it is not clear that the information can be disclosed without harm or harm to the individual. These legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2018 and, in other words, also apply to those ministers and secretaries who may resign after the autumn elections. As I said earlier, it is a great proposal, and I support it.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-348	Madam President, I would like I will be brief because many have already presented the proposal. It is in three situations that these restrictions should enter. This is where there is a risk of financial damage to the State, a risk of undue advantage to any individual or a risk of public confidence in the State being damaged. The Constitutional Committee has already begun to look for people for the committee to be appointed. It is important that the Board gets started with its work as soon as possible, especially in connection with the September elections. I support the committee's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-351	Madam President, I would like I do not need to explain the matter, because many before me have done so in a commendable way. Let me just point out that it is a pleasure for the Left Party that there are so many parties behind this today, because that has not been the case in history. When the Left Party has raised motions for the introduction of quarantine rules, not so many have been in favour of it at all. It is therefore a pleasure for me that both the Social Democrats and the Moderates and several other bourgeois parties think that this is a reasonable order. It is good that we are now moving on with this. Then we will see if we need more restrictions in this area in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-354	Mr President, I would like to We will begin with the dossier entitled ‘Strengthening legal certainty in the implementation of specific powers in special youth homes and LVM homes'. It is a matter of some of the situations in which the public commitment is indeed the ultimate and most important for the people concerned. Almost always these are extremely difficult situations, where a person is in a situation where he does not have power over his own situation and is being forced to take care of. There are no easy solutions in this area. That is why the laws and regulations we have and the powers of the public institutions that provide security for the individual and for the rest of society are also extremely important. It is important that they have the right skills and tools. As we write in the committee's report, the aim is to increase the legal certainty, participation and security of the people who are cared for – it is not least children and young people – and also for the staff in these institutions. The Christian Democrats support much of what is included in the proposal, but I am going to focus on an area where we are concerned and believe that the powers that exist today and that will exist with the proposal that the government has put forward go too far and limit the individual's situation too much. It is about the possibility of caring for someone in isolation, i.e. what is commonly called isolation. Today there are quite a lot of opportunities to do so. Not least in recent years we have seen a number of examples where children at the Departmental Board of the State have been in total seclusion and isolation for some quite extensive time and have suffered from it. We should not fool ourselves into thinking that these are simple situations. It is always a conflict-filled situation that has led to care in isolation. However, it is an operation that is so strong that it should be questioned whether we should even have that possibility. As a basis for the proposal, the Government received a proposal from an investigation to limit the possibility of care in isolation. The investigation did not want to completely remove the possibility, but it wanted to limit it to one hour with the possibility of an extension for another hour and in extreme cases a total of three hours. Nevertheless, the government has now chosen to put forward a proposal in which it wishes to reduce it to four hours. From 24 hours, as it is today, you want to reduce it to four hours. That could sound like a pretty big reduction. But on average, the actual time today for girls is one hour and for boys one hour and 24 minutes. So the proposal does not limit at all to what it looks like today. My question to the representatives of the government parties is: why did you not follow the proposals of the investigation? Why do you want to be able to have care in privacy for four hours? We know that the tools we provide are also the tools used. Several consultation bodies have pointed out that the very fact that this possibility exists means that other tools and methods are not developed. The competence of the staff working with children and young people in the institutions is crucial for carrying out activities that provide security. If someone has acting out behavior, it must be able to be suppressed in some other way. Nor can I see that the government has commented on the fact that it is more common for girls to be put in isolation than boys. When you argue that the possibility of isolation should remain, you often take examples with large-grown, powerful and very impoverishing older teenage boys, but we see in the statistics that it is mainly girls who are exposed. I therefore hope that we will receive some answers from the representatives of the government parties. For the Christian Democrats, however, we believe that this opportunity should be completely removed so that we can develop other tools. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 4.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-365	Mr President, I would like to We welcome the proposal to strengthen legal certainty in the implementation of specific powers in specific youth homes and LVM homes. We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 2 and 5. When children and young people commit crimes or get caught up in abuse, they need support and treatment, and the state is therefore able to lift them out of the harmful environments in which they find themselves and place them in special youth homes. However, this should always be a final option. Children and adolescents in forced care are a particularly vulnerable group. In order for society to guarantee children and young people protection and good care, high demands must be placed on legal certainty and quality. According to LVU, the majority of young people placed in special youth homes are taken care of. A small proportion apply for care voluntarily according to the Social Services Act. There are specific measures to be used in order to ensure that care can be carried out. For example, it is a question of having locked departments, of being able to check that weapons or drugs are not brought into the institution and of separating prisoners for protection purposes. According to the bill, staff in special youth homes and LVM homes are also given two new powers. They are given the opportunity to carry out room searches and protective searches in order to be able to carry out care or maintain order at home and to search for objects that inmates may not possess, and we think that is a good thing. The measures applied to the child or to the young child shall not be used as a form of punishment. The reasons for using these measures shall consider the breach of privacy and the potential risk of harm to the young person. LVM clients have serious abuse of alcohol, drugs or drugs or some form of mixed addiction. Most people have many years of drug addiction behind them and major social and mental problems. The purpose of LVM care is for the client to be motivated to work with their addiction problems, and we, as well as the Swedish Law Council, believe that the ban on possession of intoxicants and more should be extended to apply in general to all those who are cared for at special youth homes and at LVM homes. This would also apply to young people who are treated voluntarily or because of LVU. Mr President, I would like to Separation is a specific competence to be used to protect the inmate himself, the other young people and staff when someone is severely affected or so violent that no other action works. We think it is good that the government proposes that the maximum time for separation be reduced from 24 hours to four hours. But we still want to go one step further, just like the investigation, and propose that the separation be shortened to a maximum of one hour. It is important to be flexible when separating. For example, it is common for an inmate to fall asleep after being violent and outwardly active. Then you should not have to wake the young and take the risk of a new conflict, especially if it happens in the middle of the night when the manning is not so great. Different situations require different measures. To be able to choose between separating with a locked door or separating with an open door can be a good choice. Several consultation bodies consider that it may be practical to obtain a medical assessment from a doctor or nurse during the short period of time a separation may take place. It also questions the practical role of the opinion and the proper basis for the assessment by the health care professional, in particular in the case of staff who have not previously been in contact with the child. In some cases, the reason for separation may be that you need to divide some who fight, and then the need to contact healthcare professionals is not always met. We share the criticism of the Bar Association and also believe that it should be stated in the proposal how long must be allowed before the next separation decision can be taken or how many separations the individual child can be subjected to per month or per year. There are currently no such provisions on time limits or restrictions on the number of segregation decisions for each individual child. We think that there should be clear regulations on this particular issue. When it is decided on care in lockable units, limitations in the right to receive visits and the right to communicate with others, and when care in private should be done, we believe that the social welfare committee should be involved, and it should be a more extensive preparation. When locking out after completion of the placement, it is important for the young person to receive long-term support and help from the community in order to facilitate the transition to an independent adult life. We want our children and young people to get the help they need and to grow up with trust in society. Then it is important, in all actions involving children, that the best interests of the child are paramount and that the legal certainty of the child or child is strong.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-379	Mr President, I would like to Today we have gathered to debate one of the most vulnerable and perhaps also forgotten groups in society. Children who are placed in society's care are rarely on Parliament's table. It is therefore with great pleasure that we have received the Government's proposal to strengthen the rule of law for children in special youth homes. It is basically a very good proposal where the government is really trying to make improvements in important parts, but there are some areas where we are not entirely satisfied. I'll explain why. Sweden has a long and actually very dark history when it comes to children in society's care. No one has been able to escape the neglect investigation that testified about how we, as a country, left children in the hands of perpetrators and completely failed where we had promised to take responsibility. It is testimony that should be the basis for us today to do everything in our power to ensure that history never repeats itself. Taking care of a child or a young person is always a very big operation in the child et s and f amilj a s life, which can have very great consequences. When society enters and promises that it is better than its own family, it is a commitment that is truly binding. It places high demands on children to be cared for in such a way that it strengthens the children's inner feeling and provides the conditions for them to be able to live a fine life as strong individuals with dignity. Unfortunately, there are some indications that we have not always learned from our history and that society is still failing the children we have promised to take care of, sometimes with full legal support. One of the reasons is that it's about class. Children placed often come from poor conditions and not infrequently from a family with a single mother. These are people whose power is very limited and who rarely have the opportunity to speak and are not always listened to. Basically, this is about the human view of society, that some people can be treated in a way that others would never accept. Mr President, I would like to It is really worrying that almost 80 percent of the young people placed relapse into crime or abuse within three years of leaving the home. In addition, research shows that children who are placed in institutions are doing worse than those who do not. This is partly because there are major shortcomings in the care chain but also because we use methods that do not have the right effect. These are practices that even violate children's rights. Some of the methods for which Sis has been severely criticised relate to how to apply care in isolation and isolation. On several occasions scandals have been revealed in the Sis institutions, which are dealing with a very large number of child and youth separations and how this has been documented very inadequately, completely without legal certainty. It is scandal that children and young people have been treated in isolation, completely suspended from their environment, not for months, but for years. We have had terrible testimony about how young girls suffering from severe anxiety problems have been put in isolation, where anxiety has been treated with a cell, a mattress in the galon and a closed door. Children in our care have actually taken their lives. Mr President, I would like to It is totally unacceptable for us in Sweden to use methods similar to those of the United Nations for torture and for us to use methods that directly violate the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why there are two parts of the government's proposal in which we are very critical that the government has not gone further. The government wants to tighten up the application of healthcare in isolation so that it can take place for a maximum of two months. We in the Left Party are very sceptical about the fact that children and young people can be separated from their environment for such a long time and want the time to be reduced to a maximum of 30 days. At the same time, we want to see a clear framework for individual care and for the youth concerned to be well informed about their rights. But when it comes to the issue of seclusion or isolation, we in the Left Party are genuinely concerned that the government is not acting more forcefully. Sweden's application of privacy has received very severe criticism from both the UN Committee on Children's Rights and the UN Committee on Torture, which considers it most remarkable that Sweden allows children to be isolated. Now, in the proposal, the government wants the time for privacy to be shortened from the current 24 hours to 4 hours. For us in the Left Party, it is completely unreasonable that Sweden should continue to apply methods that are considered both cruel and inhuman by such heavy bodies. It cannot possibly be compatible with the fact that we are now going to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. We therefore want the isolation of children to be completely banned and replaced by timely measures that strengthen vulnerable children and young people and do not violate them. Mr President, I would like to No child in this country should be subjected to torture-like treatment. That should be a matter of course. The government now had the chance to show that it applies to all children but chose not to. We in the Left Party take this very seriously. We have a special responsibility for the children we have promised to take care of. It is a promise that we have made and that we must live up to. We in the Left Party believe that the methods we allow should be compatible with children's rights. Otherwise, the mission is impossible from the beginning. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, we only ask for reservation 4.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-394	Mr President, I would like to Today, on behalf of the Liberals, I accepted Bri's election manifesto for a better childhood. Bris has long, hard and persistently raised the issue of mental health. So do they in this election manifesto. I hope everyone will read it. This is an issue that is very important to us Liberals. Another issue raised by Mr Bris in his election manifesto, which I would say is a cornerstone of liberal ideology, concerns participation, the right to speak and the right to be heard. I am very pleased that it is something which, in many respects, also permeates this report. For the most vulnerable, legal certainty is absolutely the most important thing. Those with the weakest voices are the ones we need to listen to most carefully. They must also have many opportunities to speak, many opportunities to be listened to and many opportunities to be involved in decisions concerning them. Rumvisitation is a major procedure, and I am pleased that it is chosen to regulate how it is to be carried out and when. An even greater procedure is bodyvisitation. The Ombudsman for Children wrote a report back in 2009. There had been talk to children who were in different accommodations. Elin, who is 14 years old, says in that report: They searched me, and it was really scary. I'm not a criminal, but I had to undress and stand naked and then shower with an open door in front of strangers. According to this report, more than half of the youths with whom they spoke felt that the superficial body inspection was very unpleasant. Just undressing in front of an adult can be difficult and offensive. Many times it is about children and young people who have very difficult experiences, in some cases abuse. Here you need to go gently. There should be witnesses with them, and young people should of course wish who in the staff should do the search. This is a step along the way. I'm glad we're on it. More importantly, this is communication. In a number of places, the report states that only one check must be carried out to search for objects which the young person cannot possess, and that may sound obvious. But it is a clear signal that there is something that must not be done just on routine and certainly never before as punishment. As I said, much is very good in this report. I am pleased that we can agree on such important issues. That's why it's a little boring, I think, when the government chooses to allow four hours of separation. We Liberals do not want that opportunity to exist at all. We know that there is a gender difference when it comes to coercive measures. In child and youth psychiatry, where this has been looked at, it is known that 90% of those who were subjected to various coercive measures were girls. There is no reason to think that there would be much difference in the case of these young people. We abolished child abuse because, as a society, we felt that there were better ways to raise children than to beat them, better ways to listen to them, better ways to get them to listen to us. The arguments for continuing to beat children were many times similar to those raised today for separation. There was also talk about having something to do when the children become violent when they don't want to listen to us when we don't get there. Now we think it's obvious that we shouldn't hit children. We're talking about violence giving birth to violence. How, then, can you think that separation is something that should exist at all? The fact that the report also says that it wants to do away with this in due course and, in the long term, wants to see it disappear still shows that it does not really think it is necessary. I wish we could go cold turkey and eliminate separation right away. No, the UN Convention is not legally binding. It is also a reference in the report to the criticism that Mr Karlsson raised earlier. It is said that it is an important guide in the work on human rights. Here we have a fundamental problem, because although we have signed and ratified conventions on children and others, they can obviously be dismissed because they are not legally binding. We don't have to follow them, because they're just guiding. This is a mistake, and that is why we have to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law – otherwise we do not see it as legally binding, but merely as a guide. I'm sorry it has to be that way. It is sad that this is how we should have to look at conventions, because in the end it really means that we need to make all the conventions law in order for us to comply with them and not just to refer to that they are not legally binding. The argument for maintaining separation because we would otherwise get more restraint is not something I buy either. On the one hand, attachment is a measure that should preferably not be used, and on the other hand, it is not rarely the case that it is attachment that eventually leads to a separation. Again, violence breeds violence. This is particularly important because we know that it is difficult to find trained staff today. In committee, we have talked several times about how difficult it is to find trained staff. The requirements have been reduced, and it is therefore particularly important that there is actually no possibility of using things that do not work and that are not good. If you are inexperienced and there is the possibility of coercive measures, it is easier to resort to them. There's a funny expression that you've probably heard at some point: politicians are like crocodiles– they have big mouths and little ears. That is exactly how a young girl, whom I met, described the staff of a resident. But there was also an extremely obvious fear of crocodiles in the accommodation, those who did not listen but which sounded very much. Both we politicians and staff at accommodations need to become smaller as crocodiles and have significantly bigger ears to listen to those who are not actually scary crocodiles but rather quite small and saving rabbits. We have to listen to those who are actually involved. We have to listen to children and young people. With this, I am in favour of Amendment No 4 by the Liberals.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-409	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Social Affairs' report 30, strengthening legal certainty in the implementation of specific powers in specific youth homes and LVM homes. It is a bill with a long and somewhat complicated name but with an extremely important meaning. The bill proposes changes to the Act with special provisions on the care of young people, the Act on the care of addicts in certain cases and the Act on the enforcement of closed youth care. The proposals relate mainly to the specific powers of the National Board of Institutional Affairs, Sis, to carry out care at special youth homes and LVM homes. The proposals are intended to increase legal certainty, participation, security and safety for children and young people cared for at the special youth homes and for prisoners treated at LVM homes. Mr President, I would like to I began by saying that this bill has a long and complicated name but that it has an extremely important meaning. I meant it because children and young people are the most important thing our society has, and the children and young people who are cared for under compulsion are a particularly vulnerable group for which we as a society must take special responsibility. Basically, it is about making these children's voices heard, about listening to them, about making them involved in and aware of what decisions are being made about them and for what purpose. It is about safe and safe care, and it is about a good upbringing. Of course, for them to grow up safe and well, Mr President, it is just as important as for all the other children who grow up in our country. This bill is taking further steps towards a safer and safer upbringing for this group, and I am personally very happy and proud of that. This does not mean that we have reached the point of ensuring that there are no shortcomings in the future or that there is no more to do. These are issues that we must constantly work on, which we must constantly develop and where new research and evidence must constantly update and develop our ways of thinking and working on. Mr President, I would like to I will now briefly turn to some of the proposals. In the bill, time is clarified for location instructions. It is important that children and young people in urgent need of placement in a special youth home also have immediate access to such a place. Therefore, we now propose to clarify in LVU that, in emergency situations, Sis should immediately assign a place at a special youth home or LVM home. We are introducing two new powers – space and security monitoring – and in the bill the government also proposes that the young person at a body visa or superficial body inspection should be given the opportunity to influence who from the staff is carrying out or attending the action. Mr President, I would like to We also shorten the maximum time for privacy from 24 to 4 hours and suggest that the child or the young person himself should have the opportunity to call the staff while they are kept in privacy. We propose that more specific powers should be available to appeal to a court and that a public counsel should be appointed for children under the age of 15 in the event of an appeal. The starting point here must always be what is best for the child or the young person, and it is of course of fundamental importance that the child or the young person be given the care he or she needs. Therefore, it is extremely important that we now ensure that the separation must not take place for more than 4 hours. It is a major change from the previous 24 hour limit, and in order to further strengthen legal certainty, the government also proposes that decisions on separation should be reported to the regulator. Mr President, I would like to It is now of great importance that Sis works purposefully and systematically to reduce the use of capture in order to eliminate the measure in the long term. The proposal also proposes that young people staying in a special youth home be offered follow-up talks and that young people be given the opportunity to spend a day outdoors and engage in physical activity or other leisure activities. We also propose the introduction of a new law prohibiting the possession of intoxicants and more in homes for care or housing. Mr President, I would like to I think these proposals, along with the other proposals in the proposal, are absolutely necessary. They are good steps towards greater legal certainty, participation, security and security for children and young people cared for at the special youth homes and for prisoners cared for at LVM homes. I demand approval of the bill and rejection of the motions.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-421	Mr President, I would like to We agree on many important proposals in the report on which we are to take a position, but I would still like to ask questions to the representatives of the government party: why does the government still choose not to say no to isolation? You can read about child abuse at Vårdguiden. You can read about mental abuse, sexual abuse and physical abuse. Among the examples of mental abuse is that someone is locking up the child. The Committee on the Rights of the Child and the UN Committee on Torture have made statements. The government states in its assessment of them that they are not legally binding. Sweden was the first in the world to ban child abuse. Many people thought that Sweden was strange and said that it will never work. But we chose to go that way because we want to protect children's rights. It's only when you get the tools that you act differently. That is why we know that the way to combat child abuse is to strengthen parents in finding other tools. We know that parents who were themselves beaten as children or subjected to psychological abuse as children are more likely to expose their own children to the same thing. We have to give them other tools. We are saying here that it is possible to continue to lock up children even though we know that this is happening on unclear grounds. This happens although it would not be necessary, and it is because the necessary tools do not exist. Why does the government not go all the way and say that psychological abuse of children in the form of imprisonment should not be allowed?
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-425	Mr President, I would like to I know that Emma Henriksson from the Christian Democrats is exactly as concerned about children's right to a good, safe and safe upbringing as I am. I would, of course, like to stand here and say that we should not lock up children in Sweden. However, if it is children's right to a good, safe and safe upbringing that we have in mind today, I cannot ignore the fact that the investigation into forced care for children and young people has examined whether it is possible to remove that measure, and the investigation has concluded that removing that measure may lead to greater interference with children and young people, a greater insecurity for them. That's not good. That is why it is so incredibly important that the State Department Board is given the task of reviewing the possibility of abolishing capture in the long term and is also given the task of reporting annually, three years in a row, to the government how sequestrations are carried out and what is done to reduce the number of cases. We have seen that separation has been used incorrectly, and we have been clear that this is not how the legislation says that separation should be used.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-428	Mr President, I would like to For a number of years, the Authority has been tasked with reducing the number of cases of isolation. They have been slightly reduced per day in the case of boys, but for girls they have actually increased. It is this possibility that the Authority uses. We Christian Democrats have seen with great concern how the Authority has reduced recruitment requirements because it is difficult to recruit. There is a risk of a negative spiral, i.e. that there is not enough competence among those working at the Departmental Board of State's departments to help the most vulnerable children and young people. We say that what at Vårdguiden is called child abuse can be subjected to when children and young people are in community care – under forced care. We can deliberately consider exposing them to it. The government has not said that the investigation concluded that it was not possible, and therefore the government has chosen to leave the possibility behind. It couldn't be completely removed. The government has even said that children can be kept for longer in isolation than the investigation suggests. The investigation suggests an hour, and the government says four. The cut today is 1 - 1, 24 hours depending on whether it is boys or girls. Why doesn't the government go all the way and say we shouldn't accept separation? What we do not accept that parents do to their children, we should not accept that the state does to our common children.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-433	Mr President, I would like to The bill is about children and young people getting more involvement in decisions that affect them and that there will be more legal certainty for them. They will have a better, safer and more secure upbringing than they are today. It is for this reason that the government has not chosen to proceed with the proposal to remove the separation method today, but says that it will of course happen in the long term. As I said in my speech, we must find out which methods are better, which do not involve a major intervention by children and young people who are cared for in these homes. What interventions can we use to ensure a safer, better and safer upbringing in situations where we are forced to use separation today? However, we have also said that it is unacceptable that these methods have been used in the way that has happened. That is why it is so important that Sis has started a job. I have visited several Sis institutions where guidelines have been drawn up based on the criticism that has been expressed about the misuse of the methods. That is good, and we must continue to do so. As I said in my speech, it is important that we continue to work on the issues. We need to develop more legal and secure ways of dealing with these situations than is currently the case. For this reason, we have chosen to maintain separation for up to four hours.
i-7UnJ7wUnkpQX6apKAxMvV2	Mr President, I would like to As previous speakers have already mentioned, the committee deals with the SoU30 report on strengthening legal certainty in the implementation of specific powers in particular youth homes and LVM homes. Let me mention that it was the previous alliance government that set up the investigation directives. Let me also dwell for a moment on which young people are concerned by the law. At the home of the State Departmental Board, so-called Sis-hem, young people who have been cared for due to abuse, criminal activity or other socially destructive behaviour are cared for. Unfortunately, these young people have often been betrayed by society, and they often have a complex and serious problem picture where family, friends and the surrounding environment are affected, and have been affected, greatly. A person with persistent abuse who, due to his or her abuse, is at risk of harming himself or a loved one may be taken care of without consent under the law on the care of addicts in certain cases – LVM. The primary purpose of LVM care is to stop the destructive, life-threatening abuse, start treatment and motivate the continuation of care in a voluntary form. LVM care may last for a maximum of six months. The legal proposals we have now are important for it to be right – right for those who are in this care and right for those who work with these issues, for the staff who work day and night in this area. We Moderates support the Government's proposal for amendments to the Act with special provisions on the care of young people, the Act on the care of addicts in certain cases and the Act on the enforcement of closed juvenile care. As previous speakers have pointed out here, the proposal aimed at legal certainty, participation, security and safety for children and young people who are cared for in special youth homes and for the inmates who are cared for in our LVM homes. For example, the time for site references is clarified. We think the Moderates are very good. This means that in emergency situations Sis will immediately assign a place at a special youth home. The corresponding change is proposed with regard to the location of an LVM home. It is important that children and young people in urgent need of placement in special youth homes have immediate access to such a place of care. Of course, not all Sis placements are of an acute nature. There are also placements based on a need for care. As I said, the proposal concerns emergency situations and not all of them. At the same time, it may be useful to point out in the debate that Sis places and services are unfortunately very much in demand. This has not been facilitated by the fact that rental contracts with the Prison Service are not extended and construction projects are delayed due to appeals or uncertainty as to the financial conditions that will apply in the coming year for government grants – if you are going to get increased or the same. It's been delayed. I know it belongs to another debate, but it is worth mentioning. Another suggestion that has been made here is to shorten the maximum period of privacy, i.e. that the maximum duration of care at a particular youth home may be kept in privacy from 24 hours to 4 hours. Keeping someone in privacy is the most interventional special authority. The majority of the young people cared for by Sis are never separated; it is worth mentioning. Separation requires violent behaviour against the person himself, against others who are cared for or against the staff in place. You can be influenced by intoxicants. You cannot follow the rules of procedure that exist and that you otherwise follow. According to figures in Sis 2017 Annual Report, the average time in privacy has decreased by 20 minutes and is now one hour. At the same time, the total amount of captures decided under LVU has increased, both in the number of decisions and in the number of captures per 1,000 day of care. It was mentioned earlier in the debate that girls are separated more often than boys. That difference is increasing, which is worrying. Sis has been in committee, Mr President, explaining the separations and working methods that are being developed. I would like to conclude by saying that we Moderates, together with the majority in committee, also approve the Government's proposal for a new law prohibiting the possession of intoxicants and more at home for health care or housing. With this, I support the proposal so that the new law and the proposed legislative amendments can enter into force on 1 October 2018.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-448	Mr President, I would like to As the last speaker, I have little to add, more than the red-green feminist government is also working systematically and purposefully in this area to build a sustainable welfare policy in the long term. Treating young people with serious psychosocial problems and adults with substance abuse problems is perhaps a narrow but still very important area in the complex network of measures for which we in our committee are responsible and which builds our common welfare. The State Departmental Board is the state authority responsible for individually adapted coercive measures. The Agency has 24 dedicated youth homes with approximately 700 seats and 11 LVM homes with approximately 400 seats. The institutions are all over our country. For example, young people who commit serious crimes when between 15 and 17 years of age can be sentenced by court to closed juvenile care instead of prison. Then they end up in one of the various youth homes of the National Board of Institutional Affairs. Young people under forced care are a particularly vulnerable group. Children's rights perspective is therefore important, and the Government proposal aims to increase legal certainty for young people who are treated according to the Act on the Care of Young People. The board of state institutions has a difficult task, as we have heard several – I would like to say all – previous speakers point out. The people you care for and also have educational responsibility for can be introverted and difficult to reach. They can be violent and unpredictable. Drug abuse can be part of the picture, sometimes even during the stay. Despite the fact that it should not be there, it may unfortunately be so. With such difficult tasks, it is quite difficult to find competent people who like the challenge, so you have recruitment problems – and when you further train those you have hired, they become very attractive in other areas of society, so it is difficult to keep them. In order to maintain order and minimise the risks for children and young people staying in Sis institutions, both room searches and body searches are carried out. For example, it may be a matter of detecting illegal drugs or other things that you cannot possess when you are in these institutions. Room searches and body inspections, or body searches as they can also be called, are moments that are perceived as very integrity-depleting. It is therefore difficult for staff to build the confidence needed to achieve the objectives of their stay. It's a business problem. The government therefore proposes some changes to the current rules for body searches or body inspections. However, the government does not propose all the issues raised by the investigation into forced care for children and young people, which I have in mind submitted its final report in 2015. For example, the bill proposes new rules on the presence of witnesses when searching is carried out. The inmates are also given the opportunity to choose someone in the staff that they feel is least uncomfortable to be searched by. The intention is to minimise the risk of staff losing the confidence that could have been built up with those you work with. It is of course extremely important, so it is certainly very positive that this is being more strictly regulated so that the prisoners know what rights they have in that situation. Therefore, the rules for room searches are also tightened. Visiting the rooms of the inmates may only be carried out for the purpose of searching for objects which are prohibited from being held. The proposal also means that room searches should be carried out with a witness. The government is now also proposing to allow metal detectors to be used to detect illegal objects. Furthermore, it is proposed to extend the possibility of taking samples of various kinds when a person arrives in such a home, if there is reason to assume that the person is affected by intoxicants or drugs of any kind. It is a tightening up of the previous legal text, which required suspicion to be allowed to take samples. I guess it's a legal insensibility. The rules for the use of telephones and for receiving visits are also updated to work for all the different modern means of communication that we have today. The government, as I said earlier, did not implement all the proposals that the investigation came up with. The committee has made a joint visit to one of these facilities. We have had a number of visits by the National Board of Institutional Affairs to our committee. I think that the insight and transparency you get in this type of activity really sets your mark and affects you very much. The difficult task faced by staff working with prisoners is recognized. Conflicts cannot always be avoided when coercive measures are used and are often about the individual's integrity and the need to restrict the individual's freedom collapsing. Freedom can be about the safety of other inmates and staff, but also about the possibilities for the individual to reach the goal of forced care itself. The reasoning put forward in the bill on the balance between benefit and infringement in connection with an action is sometimes very difficult to take a position on. The investigation's proposal for an extended ban on the possession of intoxicants is an example in which I personally may feel that I do not share the government's assessment of not proceeding with the investigation's proposals. Maybe I have a slightly different opinion. Now that I have expressed my slightly different views on the report and the proposal, I nevertheless choose to ask for the committee's proposal and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-463	Mr President, I would like to We move on to the matter of simplified decision-making on home care for the elderly. It is a pleasure for me as a Christian Democrat that we have so much sympathy for this in the Committee on Social Affairs and that it will now enter into force on 1 July 2018. We all want us to be like the 104-year-old lady I met here in Parliament a few months ago, who thought it was great to live and a joy to be so old. At her home, she regularly helped herself to the hairdresser and put the curls, as she has always done. Imagine being able to feel that joy even though your own body is starting to fail a little bit and all the functions don't really keep up all the way. There are now opportunities to get an assessment of aid and to receive support in the form of home care as long as you live at home. But this is often quite complicated, and there is opposition. Some refrain from seeking, and sometimes you are denied even though you have judged the need to exist. We want to see greater trust in the individual who has started to grow up in the years something and feel that you can no longer cope with what you need to live your life. You should be able to get help to break the isolation or get other efforts that allow you to continue to feel safe in your own home. It can be about help with some purchases or matters at the post office or the bank, physically or perhaps digitally. You may need help cooking meals or perhaps getting food boxes home, or getting a security alarm. If you have begun to become so infirm that the relatives have to carry a heavy load, they may need help with relief. All these efforts will be possible without a prior assessment of aid under this legislative proposal. Instead, the municipality sets the framework and says: This is what we can offer when you judge that the need exists. Within this framework, you should also have great influence and opportunities to control. It may be that one day it is help with the cleaning that is needed. Children and grandchildren may feel that it is good that you no longer climb the ladder to access those windows. The risk of falling is great, with damage to both you and society as a consequence. Another week it is just to get to the hairdresser that is the important thing, or to get help to read that interesting article in the paper that you are no longer able to read for yourself. The frame should be set, but it should be the individual who has the influence. This will be possible with the legislation that we will now decide on, and that is to be welcomed. From the Christian Democrats' side, we hope that we can move in the same direction also when it comes to the possibility of adapted housing. Those who are years-rich and have come up in their 80s, soul should be able to say: Now is the time; n u I am no longer safe in my own home. Loneliness may have become too great, or there is some other reason that makes you feel that you need to get into another community with another security to live the rest of your days in what you can call your own home. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-472	Mr President, I would like to Elderly care has become a major issue in this parliamentary term, and we have carried out a lot that is good for our elderly. But even in this election movement, all parties are suddenly talking about all the good things they want for our elderly. At last this issue has become important! We are facing major challenges, and we know that we are all happy to be much older than our parents were. The present generation will be making ever greater demands on how we want it. In order for us to have as good care as possible, where people also feel that they are involved, we need to change a lot. Above all, we must give the opportunity for more self-time and to decide much more for ourselves when you get older, so that you can continue to live something like the way you did before the body became a little frail and you need some help in everyday life. Mr President, I would like to We are now making a very good proposal, which is a step in the right direction. This proposal means that the social welfare boards in the municipalities can offer home care without first making a traditional, regular examination and a demanding investigation of whether or not to receive home care and what it should contain. This proposal will therefore offer easier care for the elderly, and the individual is involved in deciding what care should contain. It can be service in the form of practical help with the care of the dwelling. It can be purchases or errands to mail or bank, or help with cooking. This may involve escorting or other efforts to break the isolation. The elderly should also be able to influence the efforts so that they become much more flexible. If it is sunny one day and you feel like taking a walk instead of getting cleaning, or if you feel like going to the hairdresser, you can change as an elderly person so that you can do what you feel like. This new law thus gives the municipality the power to develop new forms and provide services and care to older women and men. This does not remove the elderly's right to choose to have a traditional investigation carried out and to have the need for assistance and home help tested, with a decision that can be appealed if you are not satisfied. There are many advantages to the proposal. The elderly often wait a little too long and may not notice for themselves when they need help. Often it is relatives who encounter. Then it should be easy to get that first, simple help and get some support in everyday life. Not infrequently, help is put in a little too late. We know that the earlier the elderly receive help, the longer they can stay alert and healthy. With this simple way, you do not have to turn inside out in a big investigation either. Not least, it is important that you can significantly reduce the administrative and municipal expenditure, as it costs to investigate this solidly. The money saved or reduced should be spent directly on the business of the elderly. This is incredibly important. This model has been tested in Linköping for six years, but it turned out that it was not legal and passed the regulations that exist today. But the new way of working proved to be very good. All were satisfied, both those who performed the services and those who received them. We are therefore now presenting a legislative proposal, which is optional for municipalities to implement. We will make decisions here tomorrow, probably, and the law will apply from 1 July. I really hope that all municipalities are on the train from the start and offer this to their older inhabitants. There is a reservation from the Swedish Democrats, which says no. They feel that it can be a little too different in the municipalities and that you can get different help. I think that is a completely different matter. What exists today – how to decide – is equally different and has nothing to do with this. I don't think we should delay this, but of course we should say yes to that. Let's say yes. We want our older people to have the opportunity for easier and faster home care services in their municipality as quickly as possible. Mr President, I would like to We call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-05b1c73b37d8d624-484	Mr President, I would like to I'll be relatively brief. After a long day, many of us would like to come out in the nice weather. First of all, I would like to say that we are not opposed to the proposal. We do not call for rejection of the proposal at all. However, we have a reservation, as we want an addition to the bill. In other words, we share the intention of the bill. We are absolutely convinced that this can contribute to greater self-determination and participation of the elderly. We also share the view in the proposal that assistance to older people should be provided in the most simple and resource-efficient way possible. This means that the municipality should not have to spend so much resources on unnecessary administration, but it is also about that the meeting with the municipality should not be perceived as complicated, drawn-out or privacy violations for the elderly. It should be remembered that a simple and easily accessible procedure can help the elderly not to hesitate to contact the municipality once it is time to take the step of asking for help and support. However, we share the assessment of the National Board of Health and Welfare and Statskontoret that there is a small risk with the bill, which can lead to unjustified increased regional differences, and that the individual's right to interventions may vary depending on where he or she lives in the country. Mr President, I would like to We believe that, in order to achieve more equal care for the elderly and to reduce regional disparities, an appropriate authority should develop national guidelines on simplifying decision-making for home care for the elderly. We believe that these guidelines should, among other things, indicate which actions are appropriate to provide without prior needs assessment and for which target group. The aim of the national guidelines should be to focus on equal and equal care for the elderly. In other words, we are in favour of reservation 1.
