i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-4	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me when I intend to come back with information about the long-term rules of the rules for biogas. As Jens Holm probably noted, on 31 May the government appointed the investigation into the long-term competitive conditions of biogas previously announced. The investigator Åsa Westlund will take a holistic approach to biogas and look at what it looks like today, what it should look like, what role the state should take and what role the market should have. The Government appoints the investigation to enable biogas to contribute to Sweden's achieving our energy and climate policy goals in a cost-effective way, and to take into account the value of the benefits that biogas production contributes. The study will identify and evaluate the benefits of biogas production from different raw materials. We know that biogas production can play an important role in the transition to a circular economy and a sustainable society. The resources we have must be used to the full. Biogas is also versatile as an energy carrier. It can be stored and then picked up and burned when we need it most. It can also be used in the transformation of the transport sector from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. The study will analyse biogas's competitive conditions, in particular from the competition from imported biogas, and review the current instruments for biogas and, if necessary, propose new or amended instruments or other measures that may facilitate biogas production in the country.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-10	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Energy for the answer to my interpellation. Biogas is, in short, a sovereign energy source, and, as the Minister for Energy says, biogas will hopefully be an absolutely crucial energy source on the road to a sustainable zero-emission society when we build a circular economy. Biogas can also be involved in changing the transport sector so that we run with renewable fuels. We can make biogas of residues from agriculture and the forest industry and from food residues from our households. Most energy sources are imported from other countries, but biogas is created in Sweden, which is good. Biogas thus strengthens our security of supply, and it may seem particularly important in these times when we are increasingly talking about strengthening our self-sufficiency of both food and energy. Not least, more jobs are created when we produce more biogas in Sweden. As I say in my interpellation, and which is in no way new to the Minister for Energy, there is a lack of long-term and favourable rules of play for biogas. We meet almost daily with boring reports from biogas producers, for example from Borås Energi or from Jordberga in Skåne, who have major problems. We hear about farmers who want to build facilities locally to make biogas out of their waste but do not dare. A while ago, Sysav in Malmö decided not to build a biogas plant there because they believe that the long-term conditions do not exist. One of the main reasons for this is the import of government-subsidised biogas from Denmark. Although we have had a tax reduction of biogas approved by the EU, there is a twitchiness in these reductions, which applies not only to biogas but also to other renewable fuels. In addition, this tax reduction expires in 2021. It's good that the government has set up an investigation. We should remember, however, that it took the government a year to come forward and appoint Åsa Westlund as investigator of the future of biogas. This cannot be the case during this further year when the investigator will investigate the conditions for biogas that the government will not act at all? Therefore, I ask the Minister for Energy: What are the decisions in the near future to promote the production of Swedish biogas? Can we get away from the short-sightedness? The tax reduction is only approved by Brussels until 2021. If we want it to run longer, we must act now. Has the government made contact with Brussels to extend the tax reduction?
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-19	Madam President, I would like I believe that we fully agree on the benefits of biogas and on the fact that we are moving by leap towards an energy system that is becoming increasingly sustainable. We see this in the electricity sector, where we are reaching an increasing share of renewable electricity production. During this parliamentary term, the Swedish Parliament has increased support for renewable electricity production by 92 per cent, largely thanks to the energy agreement. We are in a situation where a reduction obligation for the transport sector is introduced and will apply from 1 July, which means that emissions from fossil energy must be reduced by up to 70% by 2030. Madam President, I would like We have increasingly better research and development in this area, which enables Sweden to take the lead and show that it is possible to have a modern, developed society and at the same time do things in a way that does not destroy the environment and the climate. Just as Jens Holm says, when you do this in a good way it contributes not only to better sustainability and better environmental and climate values but also to creating new green jobs and growth in the country, as we see in the heating and electricity sectors and also in the biogas sector. Why are we in the position we are? It's very simple. We have had long-term conditions for biogas. Sweden has had a consumption subsidy. Since biogas is still predominantly more expensive to produce, we have a state aid system, as the vast majority of countries in the European Union have. In Sweden we have for a long time had a system where people have received support when they consume. It has worked well, and we have seen a good development for many years. But last year something happened. Then companies in mainly southern Sweden discovered that they could buy biogas in Denmark and get production support there and then take it over to southern Sweden and also get a consumption subsidy. This meant that the domestic gas produced in southern Sweden could be competed because two systems could be used at the same time. This was never intended, either in Denmark or in Sweden, and it is this that has changed the conditions for biogas production in southern Sweden. The government immediately made contact with the Danish Government, and we have had discussions and hope to find a way to avoid this. It has proved complicated because the Danish system of production aid has been approved by the European Union, just as our consumption aid has done. What have we done in the meantime? It's not at all that Jens Holm wants it to look like – that we haven't done anything. In parallel with the fact that we have looked at the long-term prospects and the investigation that he himself refers to, our two parties have agreed to introduce short-term support of 270 million annually for biogas production in Sweden, so that in the short term we will contribute to further development but also develop new long-term conditions. It is important that you do this properly so that it becomes sustainable and gives the long-term conditions that I think both me and Jens Holm are looking for. The Swedish system, where we take advantage of more and more residual products from households, forests and more, is quite unique and something that we should both be proud of and continue to develop. This technology and solutions can become part of a flowering export industry that provides both sustainability, jobs and green growth.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-29	Madam President, I would like I would say that both this government and the former bourgeois government have treated biogas rigidly. There have been short-term efforts and tax reductions in a couple of years that have since expired, and so there have been new discussions with Brussels and so on. What is needed are long-term, favourable conditions for being able to produce biogas in Sweden. Now, perhaps, there are better opportunities than ever to create this long-term approach. The industry has agreed on a biogas strategy with concrete proposals for instruments that they want. They have also set a concrete goal and want us in Sweden to produce at least 15 terawatt hours of biogas by 2030. This means about a sevenfold doubling of today's levels. The strategy includes Waste Sweden, Scandinavian Biogas, Energigas Sweden, Region Skåne, SSAB and a number of major energy companies. I think this is a good thing, but it would be very good if the government took the proposals into its policy. It is easy for Ibrahim Baylan to say: we have set up an investigation into this. But it can't be that the government should sit with its arms crossed until 3 June 2019, when the investigation will leave its report? In addition, it may be for consultation and treatment. We need to act in the near future not only to save biogas production in Sweden but also to scale it up so that we can get the production that we both want. I would like to point out a few concrete points. The first concerns short-termism. In Sweden, the government has set a target for the collection of food waste, which can be used for the production of biogas. This year, at least half of the food waste will be sorted out, processed and used, but after 2018, there is not, at least not as far as I know, any concrete target for the sorting out and collection of food waste. This is a concrete matter on which Ibrahim Baylan could decide today. The second is what I mentioned to the Minister for Energy in my previous speech. It is the reduction in the tax on biogas and also some other renewable energy sources. We have been given a short-term deadline by the European Commission until 2021. There are less than three years left until then. I would like to know whether the government has made contact with Brussels and how it is going in the negotiations to extend the tax reduction. The third concerns the increase in production aid for biogas to SEK 270 million, which is excellent. As you know, we in the Left Party are behind this and the government's entire budget. It is good that the aid has been extended to include food waste. This is the case this year, but next year and the following years, what kind of production aid are we going to have? I do not know, but this could be answered by Ibrahim Baylan. I think that many people out there want to see a long-term perspective also in terms of production aid for biogas.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-37	Madam President, I would like It must be said that it can be seen that there will be elections soon. It is reasonable that the election movement, but also in this Parliament, should discuss issues where there are differences of opinion. However, this is not the case. I believe that we basically have the same view of biogas, of providing it with long-term conditions and of its value in our society, both now and in the long term, not least when it comes to changing the transport sector. Take shipping, where today it is mainly fossil sources and where biogas, when we get the amounts, can play a completely different role than today in replacing the oil used, including bunker oil. Madam President, I would like I was asked what work we are doing. Apart from the short-term, which we have discussed, we naturally have a close dialogue with the European Commission. We had to take over in a situation where there was a lot of uncertainty. One reason for the uncertainty was that the previous government, without having a dialogue with the EU system, implemented a support system for the transport sector which was subsequently not approved by the European Commission, despite two additional proposals. The last bill that the government had to send to Parliament was to suspend the system. That's what I got to take over. We have worked closely with the various parts of the European Commission, not only DG Energy, but also the competition part of the EU, and with the industry to develop new support systems. We have the reduction obligation, which comes in from 1 July, which has been long awaited and which we know will be approved in advance. In addition, we have also discussed tax exemptions and will continue to do so, because we basically believe that it is very good, not only on the basis of the environmental and climate values we have talked about, but also on the basis of jobs and growth. We have also had a close dialogue with the industry. It is a matter of course that Members of Parliament – I myself have been in opposition here for eight years – make demands on ministers and would like to have quick answers, but I think you are fooling yourself if you think that quick news is always the best thing. It is important in the case of this type of complex, long-term support system that we know what we are doing, because if we do not know this, we will end up in exactly the situation that the previous government did and which has caused great damage to the modal shift in the transport sector, too, during this parliamentary term. We are going to do this properly, and we are going to do it together with the industry. I think that both me and Jens Holm and the industry basically see what fantastic development this could have. What are we looking at? Not that I want to anticipate the investigation, but we have said in this House earlier that if everyone else has production support systems and we, with our consumption support, are the odd bird in the family and this has consequences in southern Sweden, it is hard to believe that we can get everyone else to change their systems to consumption support. The natural consequence is, of course, that we too will have to change our system. When we do that, we will take the holistic approach that Jens Holm calls for. We have a very competent investigator who has spent ten years in the European Parliament, can the European system well, is the chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, has been involved in the energy negotiations and is well aware of the objectives we set ourselves. It is important that we do this properly. And once we arrive, we will create the good conditions that Jens Holm and the industry are rightly calling for. We agree on this, although it may sound different in election times.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-46	Madam President, I would like I have no reason to doubt that Åsa Westlund is a competent investigator. However, there is another point I have to make. Now it's election time, as Ibrahim Baylan says. Yes, there are less than three months left before the election. The Government will then set up an investigation into the future of biogas. In fact, this problem was just as pressing three years ago. I think that the government is investigating the first year. But then you have to make sure to deliver in the other years. Nevertheless, I take it that the Minister for Energy will not sit with his arms crossed as long as this investigation is under way. I think that is very important, Madam President. I think it is very important to send a clear signal to all farmers, to all our municipalities and to all the others involved, our energy plants and so on, in biogas production or who in the future want to be that this is a future industry and that they want them to invest in it. When I listen to the Minister for Energy, I interpret it as saying that the production aid is here to stay and that it should also be available in budgets after 2018. I think that is quite right; that must be the case. I would like to ask two more specific questions. It is good that the Minister mentions that you have been in contact with the European Union and that you are pressing. But what's your response? I am a little worried when the Minister talks about other alternatives to the tax exemption. The tax exemption needs to be in place after 2021 as well. I also wonder how the Minister views the industry's target of 15 terawatt hours of biogas by 2030. How does the government feel about that? Has the government set its own goal for the production of biogas in the future?
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-50	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for an interpellation on an important issue. Although it is in the nature of the matter that you as a Member of Parliament should accuse the government of sitting with your arms crossed, I can assure Jens Holm that I have done so neither now nor before during this term of office. If you ask the energy sector, they would probably say that this term of office has perhaps been the most eventful on the energy side since the nuclear referendum in view of the energy settlement but also a variety of long-term systems that have been put in place. Unfortunately, in this case, if it had been as simple as being able to anticipate this three years ago, we would of course have put a system in place. But the problem itself culminated last year when we saw that large quantities of Danish biogas were imported into Sweden and used with two different systems. We have acted in contact with the Danish Government. And I have to say in this House that the Danish Government has taken a very benevolent approach. It was not the idea on their part that they should subsidise gas which is then consumed in Sweden. That was not the idea on their part either of the European Union and of the industry. I have no doubt at all that the potential is as the industry says, Jens Holm – on the contrary. As people, we often find it difficult to see the power of development. With the fantastic development that is currently taking place in the energy sector, especially for renewables, whether it is biogas or for that matter biofuels or electricity, we know that there are fantastic conditions in this country when we work together. We have indeed done so during this parliamentary term. Then this could be one of our great export successes in the future when the world needs to switch to the climate-smart. I trust the industry will make the right judgement. With the right conditions, I even think it may be at a disadvantage.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-54	Madam President, I would like Mathias Sundin has asked me why there is nothing about more Swedish astronauts in the space strategy, why the space strategy does not indicate a rapid enabling of privately manned space travel from Swedish soil, why the Swedish space strategy does not support a European moon base, why there is no goal or plan for a Swedish legislation on asteroid mining and why there is no plan to put a Swedish one on Mars. I appreciate that Mathias Sundin shares the government's commitment to the importance of space activities. We strive to have a long-term strategy for our work and a cross-block consensus on the priorities. I also believe that we agree on the broad lines of government initiatives. Space strategy puts the benefits to society at the centre. Swedish investments in space activities should be based on the scientific interest and on the opportunities for industry to participate in the development and delivery of instruments, control systems, satellites, parts for launchers and advanced space services. The efforts requested by Mathias Sundin must mainly be made in international cooperation. Most of the appropriations allocated to space activities finance Swedish participation in programmes run by the European Space Agency (Esa). The Swedish Space Agency, as the Swedish expert authority, decides which of Esa's programmes Sweden should participate in. The increase in the grant for space activities in 2018 and 2019 allows for greater Swedish participation in these.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-57	Madam President, I would like Why is mankind in space? Why did we get into space? Why do we care at all about what is happening out there in the universe and in our solar system? I believe that the main reason is exploration and our obstinate curiosity that we have shown since we took up space on this earth. We have crossed oceans and steppes, and when these areas were explored, we looked at the stars and began to enter our solar system. It was for research and curiosity that we once set foot on the moon. I think this is the most important reason why we have space operations in the world and in Sweden. Then this exploration brings a lot of positive side effects to our society. But it is not because of positive side effects that we have a space activity, but because we want to explore and learn more about the place we are in — the universe. I think this exploration should be the core of a space strategy. In space, we now have an exciting time, the most exciting time since the 1960s. We've got a shift in space. In the 1950s and 1960s, you needed to be a superpower in order to have any major influence on space. Today we are beginning to see super-entrepreneurs driving space development forward. But the next step, which we are already in, is that ordinary people are having an increasing impact on space activities. You don't have to be a billionaire or a millionaire anymore, but it's becoming something for all of us to be able to participate in. Sweden as a nation should drive the great development, precisely the exploration of our solar system, and this shift from the fact that only the superpowers or nations can make it possible for the super-entrepreneurs and ordinary people to contribute to this. Sweden should play a role in contributing to this development and this shift. We should do it out of desire, because it is something that is important and inspiring, but also of a long-term responsibility for humanity and for our children and grandchildren and future generations and ensure that we leave behind a planet and a humanity that can exist for a long time. The best thing about the space strategy put forward by the government is that it now exists. There are several good parts in it. Perhaps the very best part is that defence and security policy are now included as a clear part, which has been an area that has been lacking in the past. That's excellent. However, there are a number of holes – black holes – in this space strategy, and I was going to graze them one at a time. One is astronauts. The word is not even included in the space strategy. It is over ten years since Christer Fuglesang became Sweden's first, and so far unfortunately the only, astronaut. There is nothing in the strategy that we should have more astronauts, and although the decisions are based on the Swedish Space Board, the Swedish Space Board bases its future decisions on Sweden's space strategy. When it is not even included in the space strategy, there is a risk that there will be an opposite signal to the Space Board – that we will not have more Swedish astronauts via Esa or other international collaborations.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment to these issues, Mathias Sundin, and for your more detailed supplementary questions! Politics is really to want, and it is quite obvious that you want something with Swedish space politics, Mathias Sundin. But politics is also the choice, and this government has put three areas first during this term of office. It's about work, it's about school and it's about climate. That is also what permeates this space strategy. As the first feminist government, we also have a gender perspective, which is also reflected in the space strategy. That is why I think it was so important that what we chose to focus on was to develop the opportunities that already exist today. It is just as Mathias Sundin says: Space is undergoing an incredible transformation now. There are more opportunities for commercial space activities, and there are completely new technologies, for example, such as the possibility of sending small satellites into orbit to enhance and improve Earth observation. Sweden already participates in this, and the majority of the Space Board's budget actually goes to EASA's joint programme. It also includes an astronaut programme, for which Esa is responsible, and I would like them to recruit more Swedes to the programmes in the future. The fact that this is not part of the strategy is more because we have just chosen to focus on the other parts: more jobs, higher technological development and what is interesting for research and science in Sweden – and where we can use the strengths we have. It is also about taking on the biggest challenge, as I see it, and it actually concerns our own planet. It's the climate challenge. Before it is time to man space travel to Mars or even colonize Mars, I think we need to use space activities to improve conditions on our own planet. Therefore, climate work has gained a very large place in the Swedish space strategy. Earth observation will enable us to explore what we have not really been able to do so far, that is to say, to follow the climate change that is now taking place at an increasingly dramatic pace. It is about seeing how the plastics in our great oceans, which have become a threat, move and what we can do about it. With this, I also see that we need to be better at using the data now generated in large quantities both from large satellite programmes and, in the future, from smaller satellites in orbit. That is why I see this as an absolute priority, and when I choose, it is precisely the areas of work, school and climate that we focus on in space activities. Increasing the funding to put people on Mars is not in the government's interest at the moment.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-69	Madam President, I would like As far as astronauts are concerned, it is a positive message, at least orally here, that the government has no objection to the Space Board directing more money to the astronaut program. There is a very strong link between how much money goes to a programme and how many astronauts you have to postpone, at least via Esa. As far as gender equality is concerned, we have had a Swedish man in space, but so far no Swedish woman. When it comes to focusing on the earth first, I think you're thinking wrong. We see a huge benefit to the earth with our space activities, but that is not the main objective, but the very positive side effects that come out of it. Solar cells, for example, were developed in space activities so that you could have things up in space and still have an energy source for them. We now benefit enormously from solar cells on earth, but that is not why they were done. Nothing was sent up to invest in the earth and produce solar cells, but it was a positive side effect that can now have an incredible impact on our planet. It's the same with satellites; from the beginning they weren't picked up and sent up to get good climate data, but that's what we can get from them now. That's why we're going to aim outwards and explore. The things we need to invent to explore the solar system we will have huge benefits on earth, and there will be things that we have no idea of today that will have this positive effect. That is why it is important not to have too narrow a perspective on space activities. The second black hole concerns privately manned space travel. It does not have to be just astronauts going up through Esa, NASA or other things, but we are now beginning to see a private space industry emerge. We saw the big breakthrough in 2004, when the Ansari X Prize was awarded and Spaceship One became the first private space flight. It was then bought by Richard Branson and became Virgin Galactic, which is now close to having the first tourists. We also see other companies, such as Blue Origin, that will invest in this. This applies, among other things, to what we call tourists, but there will also be a lot of researchers and others going up. Of course, in the beginning it will be very expensive to buy a ticket for this, but it will be – as much else – cheaper when used. A few weeks ago I met a representative of the Blue Origin, who has its main base in Texas, and asked if there is any possibility that they would be in any other part of the world. They said: Absolutely, we are very interested in that! Why should they not be in Sweden? But then it needs to be much clearer. Maybe you shouldn't call this area a black hole in the space strategy, but it's a gray hole. There are very fuzzy wordings about this. There are wordings about privately manned space travel and investments in these, and that is a good thing. But when it comes to the end of the story how to investigate it and so on, there are many words that We should be much clearer here, not least as a signal to these companies. Another project under way under the responsibility of Esa management concerns a European lunar base. If we are to have a presence in the solar system, the moon will of course be a central point for it. This is something that is decided at ministerial meetings, so the government must reasonably have an opinion on this and not just refer it to the Space Board, although their basis is, of course, very important. When we put our first footprints on the moon, the moon became the symbol of what humanity can achieve. Now, rather, it has become the symbol of low ambitions in space – no man has been on the moon since 1972. We must change that, and Europe can contribute to that.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the further questions, Mathias Sundin! I thought I'd start a little bit with space tourism or manned space travel. It was something that the previous government was working on but that we have chosen to put aside. The reason why we have done this is that there is no specific request for this. The fact that the state would take the initiative and start preparing and building infrastructure to do it feels, once again, as the wrong priority when we have the opportunity to develop Esrange. That's what the government has chosen. We think it was much more interesting to move forward with the space base we have and the technology development we could enable there, for example by developing test beds and perhaps future launch capacity for small satellites. We have also investigated this for this purpose, and there are wordings about it. If there were to be private stakeholders who are prepared to pay the full cost themselves, without the state having to make heavy investments, it goes without saying that we welcome this. There will then be a dialogue with them on how to make this possible, and the modernisation of the Space Act will then be crucial. Today, there is no legal support for either small satellites on commercial grounds or private manned space flights from Swedish soil. I think that the countries that are now working on this are doing it in a very good and appropriate way. They also have bigger budgets than Swedish space activities have, so I think there is a reason why Sweden as a country should make these very strict priorities. Having said that, however, I would like our commitment to international cooperation to continue, not least the exchange of knowledge that we have between authorities and at political level. This applies, in particular, to the issue of a European moon base, which has been put on the agenda by Esa, but where there is still no decision as to whether this should be a priority within the Esa. If this is something that Esa chooses to prioritise, this government or a future government must decide on what one thinks about Swedish participation in such a project, because just as Mathias Sundin says, this is something that is decided at ministerial level and not just at government level. But – once again – it would require increased funding for the Space Board and for the Space Agency, Esa. I know that there are Swedish industries that think it is more important that we participate at a higher level, for example, in the case of the large satellite programmes, where they have an interest in their technical delivery to them. As has already been said, this may be a future issue, but we believe today that it is no more a topical issue than that we are following it closely within the framework of the Esa. As I said, I fully agree that much of what we are using today for everyday applications is what has come from space exploration. But this also comes when we do useful things for the earth through the great satellite programmes, through the launches and by participating in international cooperation.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-86	Madam President, I would like As far as privately manned space travel is concerned, what is needed is an update of the Space Act, as Helene Hellmark Knutsson says. This can, or should, be done before there is a specific request, because the updating of it makes it possible for a request to come in. The same applies to another black hole, legislation on asteroid mining, where the United States and Luxembourg have gone ahead. Breaking minerals on asteroids is something that has been science fiction and seen in a number of films but now so small is becoming reality. Updating legislation is something that doesn't cost a lot of money – that's the big advantage – but that can lead to very big future investments. At least that makes it possible. So finally black hole number five: a Swede on Mars. I myself have developed and worked with the Liberal space policy, and in the entire space area, Mars is the next major exploration of the solar system. A self-sufficient colony on Mars would be the greatest step mankind has taken so far. It suddenly becomes a race that lives not only on one planet but on several planets. It is in itself incredibly inspiring; waking up on a Monday morning and thinking that this is what is going on makes you jump out of bed. But we also have a responsibility to the next generation to work for the long-term survival of humanity. Sweden cannot, of course, have its own space program and build its own rocket and drive people off to Mars, but we can play a role in this without large, increased resources. Instead, it can be done by moving resources within Esa, for example, away from the Ariane programme. I think that Sweden should be a part of Mars.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mathias Sundin, for this committed and knowledgeable debate! I have to say that there are at least no black holes in your knowledge of space issues, and this always makes it particularly interesting and challenging to debate these issues. I think we should be honest and say that the government and the Liberals have slightly different priorities with regard to the space strategy. However, as far as the updating of the legislation is concerned, we are in agreement; I really want to make sure that this happens in order for us to have modern legislation. As I said a few years ago, this one was adopted in 1982, and a lot has happened since then. Sweden should be a leading space nation, just as we have been for 50 years. This is very unknown – not to you, Mathias Sundin, but to many – but we have a fantastic space industry and research and a fantastic know-how, not least at our own space base Esrange, which we can use incredibly much more. When it comes to putting a Swede on Mars, I know that this is what really stretches the idea and the technology, and I have nothing against being part of such cooperation in the future when it may take shape. Here, however, I shall say once again that Esa must also give priority. They have to choose whether they want to colonise Mars or whether a European moon base feels more important, and we are not quite there yet. However, as I said, Sweden should be active in these discussions. It is, once again, an exciting goal, but it is also expensive and long-term. I think the important thing is that we now get Sweden's very first space strategy and that, based on this, we strengthen Swedish space activities for the benefit of the Earth.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-99	Mr Rothenberg has asked me how I intend to meet the business community's need to obtain the necessary skills and to allow those companies that want to grow to actually grow as well. The supply of skills is by far the biggest growth barrier for business. Regardless of the industry or where in the country I am talking to companies, it is precisely this issue that they are primarily addressing. In the long term, the regular education system is crucial for a high level of skills provision, which is why the government has carried out a knowledge boost that fully embraces nearly 100,000 new training places in 2021. Particular focus has been placed on developing training courses for professions where a long-term shortage has been identified, including engineers and teachers. The knowledge boost also includes a strong expansion of the university of applied sciences, from less than 30 000 places in 2017 to 44 000 places in 2022. Rapid technological developments now mean that more and more already professionals will have to read out and read to be able to take on the new jobs that are emerging. Therefore, the current Steering and Resource Investigation will also make proposals on how governance should be developed to ensure that higher education institutions are better able to meet this educational need. The report's proposal will be published in December this year, but the government has already commissioned Vinnova, together with universities and higher education institutions, to strengthen the supply of skills and lifelong learning. Just recently, the government also decided on SEK 40 million to strengthen the education offering in artificial intelligence. Finally, it is also crucial for Sweden's competitiveness that we are an attractive country to move to to work or study. It is therefore gratifying that Sweden is one of its most competitive and innovative countries and that we have a very high international reputation. We repeatedly top rankings in terms of quality of life, security and gender equality, which not least contributes to women's ability to make a career. As regards the conditions of labour migration, the government considers that neither individual workers nor employers should be unduly affected if the employer has made a minor mistake. In addition to the government's many measures to tackle the problem, we now have new guiding rulings from the Migration Court which are in line with what the government wants to achieve and which significantly alter the previous strict application of the law.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I appreciate this. The Parliament concluded on Wednesday, it was thought. But Parliament works all year round, and it is an important issue for democracy that we can debate issues when necessary. I appreciate the Minister for Economic Affairs taking the time to respond to the interpellations that I and some colleagues have made. Not all ministers have done so, and if so, we shall have to deal with it in a special manner. We are moving towards the end of the term of office, and it is time to take stock of a number of issues. These are issues that we have been debating here for four years but which are worth keeping the light on. One of the issues is the supply of knowledge and skills. It is one of the most important issues for business. In order to meet the needs, not all the necessary skills exist in Sweden, but many companies need to recruit people from other countries as well. This is well illustrated by the IT and telecom companies, who believe that Sweden will be missing 70 000 IT specialists within five years. Statistics from the Swedish Agency for Growth show that seven out of ten companies in Sweden want to grow but are hindered due to skills shortages. This picture is also confirmed by the Employment Service, which points to an increasingly widespread shortage of skilled labour. According to the World Bank's Global Competitiveness Report, the Swedish business environment is one of the best, but especially when it comes to the ability to attract and retain talent, Sweden is in a worse position. It is not only I who have looked back at the four years and what government policy has meant. Two organisations, which I intend to come back to in today's debates, have also done so. One of them is the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which, in the eyes of many, represents the large companies and the great capitalist representatives, but which essentially consists of small enterprises. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise believes that the high level of knowledge among employees for a long time has meant a strong competitive advantage for Sweden. More recently, however, it has become increasingly clear that we cannot take the knowledge society for granted. Alarm reports from the school show, among other things, long-term falling knowledge of mathematics. They also believe that the government has reduced the rules for listing the cut-off point for government tax, which means that more and more income earners during their term of office have come to pay state tax. In knowledge-intensive activities, this development represents a serious obstacle to the provision of skills for companies, not least in the case of foreign recruitment. It also reduces our most skilled labour supply. The Margin tax in Sweden, which was already the world's highest before the government took office, has continued to rise over the past four years. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the job tax deduction has been reduced by so-called "degression". The other organization is called the Entrepreneurs. They argue in their criticism that the cost of hiring is burdensome for entrepreneurs regardless of the size of the company. When there is a high demand for labour and when the cost of hiring is high, it is an obstacle to the supply of skills for businesses. There are many criticisms that organizations and others, such as parties, represented by my party The Moderates, can target the government. I thank you for your answer, but I still have to ask the question: Is there anything in the criticism that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs are focusing on the supply of skills that the Minister takes on and is prepared to do something about in three months?
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-118	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! This is the biggest obstacle to growth in the Swedish economy if we do not continue to work strategically with education and competence issues. I would like to say that it is a priority for me, too, as Minister for Enterprise, to be active on these very issues and not just to limit myself to my own spending areas in the state budget. This is the issue that I usually discuss with entrepreneurs around Sweden. Then you have to have both a long-term and a short-term perspective. When it comes to the long-term perspective, it still becomes a little strange when the Moderates will somehow discuss the problems in Swedish school. Then it will be the cut-off point for government income tax that will be the answer to this. That is not where the problem lies; the problem lies in the fact that we have a Swedish school that underpresters. We have seen a certain turn in the results of knowledge now in all the international measurements. But we are far from satisfied, and we are not sure that this really is a long-term sustainable trend even if it looks more positive now. But then we must be able politically to prioritise long-term investments in Swedish schools that are about efforts in those schools that have the toughest challenges. It is also efforts that have given municipalities and county councils completely new opportunities to work with the salary development and conditions for teachers and that make the teacher group one of the groups in the Swedish labour market that now see the biggest wage increases. We work to relieve teachers in the classroom with various teaching assistants, digitization of national tests and other things that allow teachers to focus on the efforts in the classroom. This is the most important thing we can do for Sweden as a knowledge nation. There, my answer will be somewhat different from that of the Moderates. In your last budget, it is well over SEK 30 billion that you have proposed in tax cuts. To believe that such large tax cuts can be carried out without in any way affecting the long-term financing of welfare or the possibilities of municipalities is not reasonable. You are also cutting government subsidies to municipalities and county councils by several billions. This affects the long-term conditions for this. Let me turn to the second question, which is about what we can do in the short term. Then it is a question of trying to change the range of training. I believe that the fastest way to meet skills shortages in the short and medium term is the university of applied sciences. We have really listened to the business community there. When I have met organizations and representatives of the business community, they have said: Expand YH! Nine out of ten people get jobs afterwards, and it fills the gap of skills shortages that are difficult to fill in the labour market as a whole. These are often one- or two-year training courses that lead straight into work but also raise companies to a new level of competence. Now we are making the biggest expansion of YH since it was formed, and I think it is strategically right to do so. The second thing we have had problems with during our term of office is migration or the issue of labour immigration, which has caused it. The first thing that happened was that the Migration Agency had a lot to do with migration issues in general. The processing times were too long. The second is that we have final judgments that have led to a completely unreasonable situation where people have been expelled from Sweden for trivial problems with something that their previous employers have done. I understand that there is a great political agreement to do something about this. But we are also listening at the moment to business organisations, which are saying: now the right decision is beginning to come from the courts. Do not change the legislation if this practice now aches out, but concentrate on ensuring that the processing times are reduced! The Finnish Immigration Service does this, but they have also been commissioned to work harder with certification. The certification system jackets in, and there processing times are much shorter. This is therefore an important issue, but in the long term we must also manage our own skills supply in Sweden.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Now, let me admit, the government hasn't done everything badly in four years. The universities of applied sciences are one of the good things. After all, however, you have to be critical at all times, and you have to put your finger on what is not working. I myself have been out talking to many entrepreneurs, both big and small. In terms of labour migration, there are some things that play an extremely important role if you are to be attractive as a country and as an employer and recruit a labour force from outside. It concerns a few things that affect the individual. It is income tax in general. Moving to a country with high income tax is not attractive, and that is why I and my colleagues in the Moderates will continue to talk about tax and income tax as an important factor in securing the supply of skills in Sweden. It is also about the possibilities of expert tax. There are some talents about which Sweden, with 10 million inhabitants, competes on a planet with 7 billion inhabitants. We must be able to have certain tools that make it particularly attractive for certain talents, certain skills and some experts to move to Sweden. There must also be employee options, i.e. opportunities to take advantage of a future on a job that cannot be paid enough for today. For companies and for companies, it plays a role in corporate tax. The Alliance government reduced corporate tax by about 4 percentage points last period. The government has now announced a smaller reduction. We can discuss this in a separate context, and I would argue that it is a good thing to reduce corporate tax. But if you're going to lower it, you're going to push it hard so there won't be a fart in space, to appeal to the previous debate. I am afraid that 2 percentage points will not do either to or from. It is also important to have ownership change rules that work. But for individuals it is also a question of being able to have access to a varied range of housing. People who may land in Sweden for a limited number of years do not want to invest SEK 5 – 7 million in their own housing, but must have housing that works in this context. It is also important to have the opportunity for family work, but what most people say is absolutely most important is access to high-quality international schools. Then we are not talking about the school being the best in the city or the best in Sweden, but it should be the best in the world. The people that Swedish companies and universities want to get here often have two, three, four or five tenders to choose from. Then it matters what kind of income tax it is in the country in which you are moving to, if the family members can have the opportunity to work in their field of employment and what the children go to school. In this context, I come back to the fact that we are dealing with what is often general business conditions, namely to ensure that corporate tax and income taxes are kept at an internationally competitive level. It is also a question of reducing the cost of hiring. As the Minister mentioned about migration and administrators, there have been a lot of strange decisions. It is good that things are moving in a different direction now, but I would like to ask the Minister: how does this ensure that individual administrators do not act at their discretion? There is a great deal of scope for individual officials to make their own interpretations.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-136	Madam President, I would like If you look at the attractiveness of Swedish industry right now, we see the levels of investment in Sweden that international investments are also largely directed to Sweden. Swedish industry makes the largest investments in our country in 80 years, since SCB began measuring this. We also see that an increasing number of international experts or people working in the deficiency professions are looking to Sweden. Only the number of civil engineers seeking Sweden has doubled in recent years, and the number of IT specialists of different kinds is larger today than in 2014. So we see a positive trend. What people are looking for is good jobs and exciting tasks, but also a society that is both safe and offers, for example, good schooling – but also an environment where both men and women may be able to make a career and still pursue their dreams in life. That social system is important to guard. I would like to say that the problems we have had with individual cases that have been dealt with very strangely have damaged the image of Sweden. It has become so that people abroad wonder if it is possible to get a work permit in Sweden, even though we may never have had as many granted as now. In the first months of this year, IT architects had an average of 24 days for the first time and a grant rate of 96%. In the case of extension, the rate of granting is 99%. It shows that a lot of people are actually allowed to stay in Sweden because we need them and have a shortage of labour in these areas. But the image of Sweden has been that the public has not behaved and that the regulations have become very messy. That is something that I believe we share a political responsibility to steer up after the new system came into force in 2008. With regard to school and the long-term attractiveness of the education system, I believe that we are not through the school's challenges yet. Strong investment in money in Swedish schools is still needed to increase both quality and equivalence. It is the teachers who must be at the heart of the work that the government has decided to do in any case. I do not believe that it is possible to do that with the Moderates and the entire Alliance, including SD's, extremely large tax reduction agenda for this election. There will not be enough money left to make these quality efforts, and I am afraid so. Now that we are talking about skills provision, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Rothenberg about the big elephant in the room when I meet the business community. How did you turn around the other week with the professional programmes? The big question for Swedish business is basic vocational training, which has seen a decreasing search pressure for a long time. We understood that we agreed with the Moderates that we would introduce the proposal that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has launched, i.e. that the professional programmes have a general competence but each individual has the opportunity to opt out. We understood that there was a stable majority in this House for this. When I talk to professional organisations, regardless of sector, everyone says that it was a good proposal. It will damage the supply of skills in the future that we cannot proceed with the high school proposal. Housing may be able to come back to, but the Moderates have a little to answer about privatisation when they have re-established tenancy rights on a massive scale and when it comes to your almost biggest savings in the budget, namely that you have removed the support to build rental apartments that ordinary people can afford to live in. This is a wrong priority, not only in this economic situation, but also in defending Sweden's attractiveness to international workers.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-142	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a very high age of entry into the labour market. It is partly explained by our internationally high graduation age. A lower graduation age would bring significant socio-economic gains, and then something also needs to be changed in the student aid systems. Early graduation should be a priority through financial incentives. I have exercised this about a number of times in the Swedish Parliament. This is something that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise also proposes. This is the foundation and the alexander chops that you need to do in order to be able to get a supply of skills both from Swedish labour and to attract foreign labour. We need to get started earlier, and we need to stimulate people to study and learn better. I believe that the difference mentioned here by the Minister in terms of professional programmes and general competence is not what will determine whether Swedish skills are standing or falling. But there is a concern among many companies, and now I come back to this issue of the Migration Agency's handling of residence permits for labour migration. Although the trend is moving in the right direction, there is still a great deal of concern among companies that are reluctant to seek new labour on the international market. There is also concern among people in other countries about going to Sweden because of this. Then we'll get back to the tax cuts. Yes, the alliance government was quite good at tax cuts. We were better at tax cuts than you are, because you have been the best in the second class, namely tax increases. The 30 billion that the Minister mentions here that the Moderates want to reduce the tax by is about what you have increased the tax with during this term of office for Swedish companies and imposed charges. If you can do one thing, you can do the other. Redo and do the right thing! Thank you for this debate.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-146	Madam President, I would like I believe that the competence issues will be the major political issue of the next parliamentary term. It is not just a question of continuing to expand the education system, but our self-image is too positive. There are too few young people who continue to study after high school at universities of applied sciences or universities, and we must continue to have a well-educated population in Sweden. But we cannot just look at those who enter the labour market, but the big question of the next parliamentary term will be how we can ensure that those who are already professionals can further educate themselves even better. We are now making great efforts on the part of the government to prepare people in the labour market for change. As far as tax cuts are concerned, we differ. That is one of the major issues ahead of the elections. I think you're reading the time wrong. I believe that the Moderates have gone awry if they believe that the Swedish people right now with the needs of healthcare, school and in a wide range of areas think that the most important thing right now is to introduce massive tax cuts. I think most people realise that more work will be needed for the school, not least when it comes to supporting teachers, in order for all children to get a really good start on their educational journey. That is more important to us than major tax cuts, especially for those with the highest income. We will certainly debate this in the electoral movement, because the electoral movement will also be a debate and a referendum on Swedish welfare.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-148	Madam President, I would like Sofia Fölster has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to reverse the trend of increased regulatory uncertainty for entrepreneurs. The Government considers simplification to be a key element in strengthening the competitiveness of companies. Successful small and medium-sized enterprises that grow and hire are crucial to achieving the government's job goals. The Government is therefore pursuing an active business policy with a focus on measures that improve the conditions for companies and entrepreneurs, which increase Sweden's attractiveness for investments and strengthen the incentives to start companies and allow them to grow. Some rules that surround companies are important rules of the market. It is essential that rules are properly designed to limit the administrative burden. Services, treatment and short processing times are also central to a competitive business environment and to increasing growth and employment. Through more and better digital services and processes, we are simplifying for entrepreneurs in all parts of the country. It is about making reporting as smooth as possible. It should be easy to do the right thing with minimum time. The Government has, among other things, commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office to introduce a digital service for the submission of annual reports. It is a service that became available for the first time in March this year. As part of the simplification work, the government has also announced that we intend to abolish the requirement for physical archiving of receipts for accounting purposes. In the budget proposal for the current year, the government states that we are considering reviewing the accounting area from a digitisation perspective. Within the framework of the Government's agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, SKL, national digital services are developed for restaurant companies. The goal is for half of Sweden's restaurant entrepreneurs to be able to start and run the company digitally this year. The work goes under the name Serverat, and on the website a guide and checklist to help the entrepreneur with what to do and at what time before the start of the restaurant. Work has now been further broadened to develop digital services for companies in the tourism industry. The corporate site att.se continues to develop positively, both in terms of use and scope of services and in terms of information. Information from more than 50 different authorities is now available on the website, which in 2017 had 2.6 million users. This was an increase of 15 percent compared to 2016. Through the budget proposal for the current year, the Government provided additional funds for Aktivitet.se and announced at the same time additional funds for the future. The Swedish Agency for Growth has a government mandate to promote digital renewal in close cooperation with the relevant government and municipal authorities by making information available and supporting the relevant authorities to apply the principle digitally first in corporate government contacts. The Government has also decided on a regulation on the digital collection of information from companies. The aim is to reduce and simplify reporting by companies. The authorities shall use as far as possible data on enterprises available in central government so that companies do not have to provide the same data several times. Where appropriate, the 67 authorities covered by the Regulation shall coordinate their collection of information from undertakings in order to limit the disclosure of information by undertakings. The submission of information to government authorities takes time and is often perceived as annoying when the requirements come at the wrong time, is so similar to those already provided or when the entrepreneur does not understand the purpose of the collection. By simplifying companies' contacts with authorities and reducing corporate disclosure, they need to spend less time on government contacts and can instead spend more time running and developing their businesses. The Government works continuously to monitor the processing times within the framework of the current government administration. In addition to this, targeted measures are taken when long-term problems have a major impact. Examples of this include Statskontoret's review of Lantmäteriet's processing processes, the requirement for an action plan for shorter processing times for work permits and the recently submitted proposal for a system of fee reduction for applicants when the deadline for processing matters relating to building permits, advance rulings and start-up decisions is exceeded. Rules have been created for various reasons. This could involve ensuring a high level of protection for consumers, health, the environment and workers. These rules may then have a value of protection, and in some cases this value of protection outweighs keeping costs low. However, rules that lack security value should be reviewed. One example of this is the abolition of dance permit requirements that have been investigated and will now be referred to.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-160	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered has asked me how I intend to improve the general conditions for Swedish entrepreneurs in such a way that it becomes easier and more profitable to run a business. The government is working purposefully to simplify for companies and pursue an active business policy aimed at creating better conditions for more, growing and exporting companies throughout the country. There are many different measures of start-ups. Research in general and analyses from Swedish data show that when there are particularly good opportunities for employment, in connection with a strong labour market boom, the tendency to start a business and earn a living as an entrepreneur decreases. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analyses, which is the statistical authority responsible for business start-ups statistics, business start-ups have remained at approximately the same level in the last seven years. It starts around 70 000 new companies every year. The government has been pursuing an active policy throughout the period to create more, growing and exporting companies. Among other things, the government has reduced corporate tax from 22 to 20.6 per cent from 1 January 2019, which is implemented in two stages until 2021. Furthermore, the government has made it easier for one-man companies to employ through the so-called growth aid which provides companies with a reduced employer's contribution for a maximum of 12 months, from 31.42 % to 10.21 %. We have also introduced more favourable rules on employee options and their tax relief, so that small, young and innovative companies can more easily recruit and retain key people. In order for even more people to dare to take the step of starting a business, we have changed the Social Security Code so that the time for calculating sickness benefit-based income, SGI, for the construction phase t is extended from 24 to 36 months. It is also extended to those who set up limited liability companies. This is a measure that creates greater security for new entrepreneurs. An active enterprise policy also means a close dialogue with the business community. An example of this is the talks initiated by the government between representatives of larger and smaller companies, in order to find, on a voluntary basis, an alternative to legislation on payment times and to deal with long pay times that hit subcontractors hard through impaired liquidity. This initiative has now led to the launch on 13 June of a pay-time code, endorsed by both large and small companies. The Government has also proposed that companies with at least 500 employees, according to a new law, should report annually information on agreed payment periods, actual payment periods and delayed payments. Lars Hjälmered highlights in his question the importance of reducing the regulatory burden. It is a central area in the government's efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of companies. Through more and better digital services and processes, we are simplifying for entrepreneurs in all parts of the country. With good service and digital services, the amount of rules is not as big a problem. It should be easy to do the right thing with a minimum of time. The Government has, among other things, commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office to introduce a digital service for the submission of annual reports. It is a service that became available for the first time in March this year. As part of the simplification work, the Government has also announced that it intends to abolish the requirement for physical archiving of receipts for accounting purposes. In the budget proposal for the current year, the government states that it is considering reviewing the accounting area from a digitisation perspective. At the same time, rules that surround entrepreneurship can provide important market rules and thus have a level of protection in themselves, such as new anti-money laundering rules and enhanced consumer protection in the mortgage market. However, the Government's ambition remains that it should be easy to be an entrepreneur in Sweden and that costs should be reduced. In order to reduce the company's export threshold, v in 2015 launched an e xport strategy and added an additional 800 million in 2015 – 2019 to promote exports, focusing on SMEs. As a result of the strategy, we not only have more foreign offices and have formed regional export offices around Sweden. We have also created world-class export subsidies. Swedish exports beat all records. Goods exports increased by 10 per cent in 2017, and for the first time ever exports from all counties in the country increased. The impact of our industrial policy is clear. Future confidence in Swedish industry is the highest in 20 years. In 2017, according to L Antbrukarnas Riksförbund's profitability barometer was the strongest year for Swedish small businesses since the measurements started in 2012. And seven out of ten SMEs want to grow. As a result of our policy, we now have 300 0 00 more jobs, including more than 150 000 in business than when we took office. We intend to continue on the line and through systematic work build a competitive Sweden where more people will be able and want to start a business and get their companies to grow.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-172	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me how I intend, with the proposed regulation, to prevent law-abiding, skilled and responsible entrepreneurs in the welfare sector from going bankrupt and maintaining freedom of choice in Swedish welfare. I note that the question raised concerns the proposals in proposal 2017/ 18:159 Authorisation to receive public funding in the field of social services, assistance payments and school law-regulated activities. On the grounds that Parliament recently voted against this proposal, it is my opinion that the scenario described by Mr Rothenberg is no longer relevant.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-174	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But you're not gonna get away that easily. One reason why, when it is summer, we debate issues like this here in Parliament, which have actually closed, is the importance of clarifying the difference. The Minister for Industry and I don't dislike each other, but now we're gonna be humping each other for 20 minutes. This is an issue in which there is a significant difference between the views of industry and industrial policy. The bill presented by the government did not have an impact in the Riksdag. It was one of the worse initiatives taken by the government during its term of office. That was the proposal to limit profit in welfare. By making demands that open to arbitrary application, legal uncertainty, abuse and sometimes even contradictory, it was intended to create a situation that made it difficult for companies to operate in the long term. Swedish welfare companies are good. They are internationally very prominent. There is an international interest in Swedish welfare companies in preschool and school as well as care and care for the elderly. This could be an interesting export market for Swedish companies in these areas. I put an interpellation three years ago on the same theme to the Minister. Then he handed it over to his colleague Ardalan Shekarabi. It became more a discussion about profits in welfare than about what I really wanted to discuss: How should companies that work in welfare be able to develop their business both in the country and abroad? The debate I had with Ardalan Shekarabi was in many ways cosmic. We managed to talk past each other all the time. Now I'm glad the original minister is here to discuss welfare business. Even if this proposal is now out of the world, there will certainly be new proposals. I note that so far the government has not been very interested in helping, supporting and facilitating the companies operating in the welfare field. It has been a general rather hostile policy. There have been stacking obstacles along the way. I ask the question: instead of developing this type of enterprise, what does the government want to do? If you think that limiting profits is a very good idea – but the proposal was beaten up in this House – what do you want to do to make it easier for companies? I assume that the government does not want to destroy this type of company. It doesn't matter how many Innovation Councils, Industrial chancellors or Innovation Capabilities are set up. More is needed to compensate for the opposition that the government is otherwise targeting welfare companies. This is, as I said, a very interesting and possible service export market. I would like to hear the Minister post the text on beyond this with profit limitation, what can be done to stimulate and facilitate this type of business. There's a lot of people out there wondering.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-185	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg pointed out that this is an issue that separates him and the government. He invited me to debate, and I could not resist the temptation. This is an issue that involves many people in many parties and many citizens. Indeed, a majority agree with the government that schools should deliver knowledge and not profit. If you look at who is extreme in this context, you can make a brief international look. I know that the Minister appreciates the outlook, so I would like to have such a dialogue. In the United States, as Hans Rothenberg calls skilled entrepreneurs, they have managed to run free schools for 80 to 85 percent of the grants. In Norway, 85% of the subsidies are paid and in Denmark, 73% of the subsidies are paid. There you can still operate without profit. In the Netherlands, two thirds of all schools are free schools without profit. In Finland, 2 per cent are free schools without profit, in Denmark it is 15 per cent without profit. Why do all other countries manage to run these schools very well without profits? That's what I'm wondering. What makes the difference is the driving force and the motivation behind why people run schools. In some cases it is churches, in others foundations, in the third case it is cooperatives, in the fourth case it is special pedagogy that one wants to pursue. What characterizes free schools in the outside world is a willingness to teach, a willingness to conduct education, a desire to create the absolute best for the students, not for yourself. I believe that there are many in Sweden who want to run schools in exactly that way, and they will not be prevented. To the extent that there was a rule that had prevented them, the government had foreseen it and allowed such operators to be exempted from long-term activities. What we are really discussing here is not whether schools are good or not. We are discussing which driving forces are good or not. The Government put forward a proposal that could focus on positive drivers for students, namely the activities, knowledge and education. I'm sorry the government's proposal didn't go through. I can tell Mr Rothenberg quite rightly that the issue is not dead. It's gonna come back. You're absolutely right. But you are wrong when you think you need to worry that it would lead to something bad. If you don't have to think about profit every time you get a little surplus in the business, that surplus can happily be used for a trip instead of delivering profit. You can buy in some new equipment instead of delivering profit. You don't have to conflict with your employer about loyalty when you've been effective and managed to create extra resources. Should loyalty be the best possible education for children or to deliver the profit that the owner would like? That's focusing your business on the right things. My question to the Minister is: What is the Minister doing to assess the international lessons we can learn from how other countries have organised their school system? The question is whether we cannot import some ideas from other countries on how to operate.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-194	Madam President, I would like Thank you also for the debate on a very important issue. I believe that this will be one of the issues that will characterise the electoral movement. The Swedish people – even among the bourgeois parties – are of the opinion that it is not any kind of activity if you run a school or a retirement home. There are other longer-term requirements for the business if you are a private operator in the welfare society where taxpayers actually pay all the revenues to the business. The international dimension is very interesting, especially in the field of education. I do not know of any other school system in any form of organized world that has gone as far as has been done in Sweden. Here we have combined a fully publicly funded school grant with unlimited opportunities to make a profit and an almost free right of establishment for new players. I do not know of any other country that has a similar system. The challenge is now to try to have a calm and realistic discussion. In fact, Swedish school has major problems today. Our tax money, which we allocate to this activity, should go to students, teachers and principals so that we can develop good school activities for all children and young people in our country. It's our political mission. We have made great efforts in the area of welfare during this parliamentary term. I do not think everyone is aware of this, but 100 000 more people are currently working in the public sector compared to four years ago. There are 100,000 more people working in care for the elderly, school and preschool. It is people who have the time and opportunity to help students or older people who have problems or need extra support and help. It is a question of resources but also of governance. Another question is whether all private companies in the welfare sector are poor. No, absolutely not. There are many private actors who have the idea that they want to reinvest much of the business. It may have been run in foundation form in the past, and now they feel that they have an idea of how to develop their activities according to the curriculum and school teams to give teachers and students better opportunities to move forward. There are also other private companies who realise that there is no way to pay off any profit because it is a matter of publicly funded activities and that they are at the disposal of society for the provision of education and training. I think this is an important issue. We have done a great deal during the term of office, which is not just about the proposal recently voted down by the bourgeois and the Swedish democrats, which was to set a ceiling on how much profits can actually be made in some of these activities. We strengthen the protection of employees in private operations. It's really important. Even those who work in private activities should be able to tell about irregularities or problems, which is a right that all public employees have today. We have also put forward proposals for a clearer ownership and management test so that those who are going to start a business go through a proper test that shows that they are suitable and know the business well enough. There should be some kind of work on this. We are also doing a lot on the resource side by trying to target resources to the schools and areas most in need so that it will not be the same money to everyone. In the long run, this leads to an increase in injustice. This is an important issue for Sweden. But I do not think that the private companies that are here and that exist in the welfare area are valiant because Swedish welfare is of poor quality. Why, then, would anyone want to share their experiences? The most important thing for us in Sweden is to turn the quality around and ensure that all children and young people get to go to a really good school and that the elderly have a really good care and care that they can trust.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-204	Madam President, I would like When we talk about these issues, it becomes very sensitive. The red-greens always take the school as an example. But I've made a rather broad-based interpellation about welfare business. It is about school but also about childcare, care for the elderly and care in the middle of life. Welfare is much more than just school. Many are active in this area. They do it precisely because it is something they can, it is something they have experience of and it is something they see that they can do better than what is done in the regular, public business. Like all entrepreneurs, they see something that others don't see and want something that others haven't figured out you can do. That is why it is so important that people who work in this large sector and who today have very few options to work and work within – most are publicly managed – have the opportunity to make a difference. It is about that you at preschool should be able to competence develop your staff. It should be possible to increase the salaries of the staff and conduct individual pay calls. It is also about being able to get new equipment for elderly care. One should be able to develop the business through competence development. It is about education and allocating resources for it. These are not evil people who have greed in mind, but are people who are entrepreneurs, who want something and who want to help develop an area. It should be obvious that such entrepreneurship is as valuable as the one who makes an innovation or an invention, starts a factory, makes an export success or creates a new app that generates jobs and hopefully also tax money to Sweden. The fact that there are now 100,000 more people in the public sector is not the same as the fact that there is more welfare. I think the Minister has a wrong view when he always compares public employment and public resources with more welfare. It does not need to be carried out by public operators. Welfare can be performed by many hands and by many varieties of hands. It's not about making huge profits. If you are smart as an entrepreneur and entrepreneur, you also know that the most important thing you can invest in is your own staff, especially when it comes to service companies. It is the staff who deliver benefits to customers and patients, who should have the care they need. It would be interesting if the Minister were instead to talk about what the government wants to do for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in this area. I respect the fact that Mikael Damberg believes that we should not make too much money on this. I don't share it, but I respect it. But then we must balance this and do more to stimulate and make it useful and successful for entrepreneurship in this area.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-211	Madam President, I would like I think it's important to make a difference to this and to sell apps. I am going to leave Parliament and have designed an app that helps people make environmentally friendly choices and do so in a fun way. The difference is that there is no app purchase obligation but there is a school obligation. Therefore, there is a difference between making money from activities where people voluntarily choose a service in free competition and doing it on a service that everyone is either forced to – such as school duty – or on care that one can have a compelling need for. Another difference is that it is state-funded, and then it is perfectly reasonable that the state imposes requirements on how the business is conducted. This is the big difference. That is how all other countries have organized it. The school is particularly sensitive, because we have compulsory schooling. There are good and well-functioning alternatives to public health care. In particular, I have Jörn's medical centre in mind. It wanted the county council politicians to shut down, but the nurses and doctors agreed with the residents that they wanted to keep a health centre in the area and that they wanted to take over it. A foundation was created. The citizens and employees jointly took over the business with the promise to make the savings that the county council wanted them to do, but they manage the business themselves. This is an excellent example of free enterprise. All the time, the aim is to deliver benefits to citizens in the form of better and closer care. This is the freedom we should have in this area, not the freedom to withdraw money. The Government proposed that the person carrying out such activities should have the right competence for this. It is perfectly reasonable that this should be supplemented by a requirement that the purpose should go to the intended one when tax money is paid out. Of course, there are a lot of problems with how to value different services. You can get sub-optimizations as it is difficult with new public management to determine exactly what should be paid for what. However, the government is making even better proposals.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-217	Madam President, I would like We do not come from the fact that this is also a resource issue. If we are to have better welfare, we must be able to make this a priority. Whether private or public preschools are involved, all staff in schools and preschools are paid with tax money. If you want to raise teachers' salaries, give them better conditions, have smaller classes or children's groups or have better staffing in the care of the elderly, public tax money costs. That is why we have a debate on this, because we added more public money to make it possible to afford to expand welfare. This does not just apply to this term of office. The next parliamentary term will face enormous demographic challenges. There will be more children and more older. If we are to keep Sweden together, we must be able to prioritise this. This is my main criticism. It cannot be said that we should develop these organisations and companies and, at the same time, make substantial savings in this area. It gets tricky on the part of the Moderates. Overall, I believe that the Moderates, the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have tax reduction proposals in this House of SEK 100 billion. That's an incomprehensible amount of money. Do not think that such a tax shift can be carried out without having a significant impact on business! It will. Can welfare be a platform for development, innovation and new business ideas? Yes, historically it has been. The public sector, through its orders, energy policy and health policy, has contributed to many inventions – the pacemaker and whatever it may be – that have actually led to better health care and better development for our citizens. Can the public sector continue to be a driver of innovation? I really think so. This is why Vinnova h ar started a programme of SEK 100 million per year to stimulate actors in public activities to enter into innovation collaboration, whether it's about imaging, finding cancer earlier in order for doctors to get better decision support or working with distance aids in health care, so that even a hospital that doesn't have all the experts can be connected and get the best support and help for development. It is clear that such collaborations can grow over time and that there may be technical aids that not only can develop operations in Sweden but can also be developed around the world. It's great if we have a strong life science industry that can handle it. But when you perform in Sweden you have to do it with a long-term perspective. One should be aware of this, and I believe that the welfare companies in Sweden, whether it be school, preschool, health care or care for the elderly, are beginning to understand this. You have to do it with responsibility. It is not like any other private activity, because citizens are demanding public access, transparency and quality here. It is the taxpayers who are paying. It is also reasonable, then, that certain requirements and conditions should be imposed on the business. I think this is going to be a big election question. If we are to meet the challenges of well-being in the coming decades with the demographic challenge at its bottom, we must ensure that more tax money goes to what they were supposed to do – to children, to the elderly and to the staff who are toiling and doing their job.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-224	Madam President, I would like Putting equality between callousness and profit is not fair. To be able to operate on equal terms, on fair terms and on reasonable terms is what companies in the welfare areas want. They want to be able to develop their activities without being suspicious. I have mentioned with Minister of Trade Ann Linde the possibilities for Swedish welfare companies to go on export. There's a lot of people waiting. Delegations from Japan and other distant Asia come to Sweden to see: How do you do it? This would be interesting. But what is the reference market? How come you can't sell at home? There must be something wrong. That is a question that plays Swedish entrepreneurs out of their hands and not in their hands. I note that the Minister continues to talk about the public sector. It is important that taxes are used with care, especially in care. There are limited resources, and that is why it is so important to be able to use those resources in the most efficient way. There may be other options than the public sector. There may be those who find other solutions. Then we must unleash diversity. We must be able to have diversified welfare in Sweden. It is a long-term approach that these companies seek. They want to be able to carry out their activities responsibly, and then they must be given the opportunity. I agree with the Minister: let this be a big election issue! Let initiatives be fair in every way! I would like to thank Mikael Damberg for this period. We have had many debates. Although we do not have them in the same roles after the election, I look forward to new upcoming holm times. To Carl Schlyter I just say: Thank you for being there – or nowadays: existed!
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-229	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Rothenberg for the debates during this parliamentary term. I look forward to continuing the debates after the elections, perhaps in exactly the same constellation. Let's see! This is an important issue. This applies both to the quality of welfare and our ability to export much of the expertise we have in life science to the rest of the world. The government has made great efforts to develop this. I share Mr Rothenberg's view – and also Carl Schlyter's view – that diversity is needed and that there may be different ways of addressing an issue. It can be shown that it can be done in a different way and – in Carl Schlyter's case – engage staff and residents locally to develop a business long-term and secure it. It may be one way, but there may also be private companies that have a new way of addressing a problem, a way that many people think is good and that gives value to life if you get sick or old. It may be that the private retirement home can contribute something. But then one must be aware, I think, that you cannot take out unlimited profits and must reinvest parts of the profits in both staff and quality for the users. I think that those who listen to this are thinking about whether it is really possible that this is not the case today. Is it really the case that we can now charge unlimited profits from public activities financed by tax? This is what I think bourgeois voters are also seeing, so I think it would be good if we could have long-term rules for this and if we could agree that we need diversity and freedom of choice but also need responsibility for the parties involved in publicly funded activities. You have to take quality issues very seriously and behave in the long term. I think that would be the best thing for the Swedish welfare system. Thank you for the debate.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-232	Madam President, I would like Carl Schlyter has asked the Prime Minister whether he intends to comply with the Climate Act and thereby scrap Österleden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-233	Madam President, I would like Sometimes a question becomes obsolete the day after it is written. I guess I had a concern that there would be a risk that Eastern connections might somehow sneak back into the plan. But I am very pleased with the government's decision and the Swedish Transport Administration's suggestion that this is not the case. In the context of the Swedish negotiation, it is also not relevant, as the parties do not agree on how to proceed with the financing of this. I would like to congratulate Swedish taxpayers on the fact that we are making a billion-dollar saving in the big class and a huge environmental saving. Perhaps, however, I need a little explanation to control the risks of this sneaking up like a phoenix from the ashes. The Minister is talking about an orderly closure. If any future government would like to launch this project, have I understood correctly that the earliest time is five years from now? And what is the risk that Sweden's negotiations will get started again? In Trafikverket's original proposal there was an Eastern connection with some named initiatives if the framework was to be extended by 10 per cent. I would like the Minister's answer to these questions. What are the risks of this rising up like a phoenix again?
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-235	Madam President, I would like I thank Carl Schlyter. Many are pleased with the national plan, which includes 700 billion in investments – 100 billion more than under the previous government – in infrastructure, in the largest rail investment in modern times and in climate change. It is clear that many are delighted that we now have room to invest. I think that's very good. But Eastern connections are not part of the plan. There is a commission for Trafikverket to arrange a so-called organised closure, which means ending the process but ensuring that you can narrow the corridor of national interests, so that the housing and urban development of the municipalities concerned are not hindered. It is of course important that there is still room to build housing and ensure that Stockholm continues to thrive and develop. Nor is it the case that Sweden's negotiations remain. That process is over. That fear can also be ascribed in that sentence. Then there will always be political forces that want to find new urgent and important infrastructure projects in the future. They are the ones who follow the Stockholm debate well aware of. The national plan adopted by the government is valid for the next twelve years, with which there is no Eastern connection.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-238	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. My question originally concerned the incompatibility between Eastern connections and the new climate law. This conflict will exist for many future projects or projects. It can be if you want to expand Arlanda. This construction is based on strong increases in traffic. These may be other routes that are based in their calculations on strong traffic increases. My criticism of Eastern connections was that it was only socially profitable if there was a 50% increase in traffic. The natural resources needed to produce all these new cars, even if they were going on other than fossil fuels, are a major burden on the environment. Those who use fossil fuels in particular are also a major burden on the environment. I can ask you a more general question. How does the government ensure that all projects are evaluated and ensure that they are fully compatible with the Climate Act?
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl Schlyter, for the commitment! This is certainly almost worth a whole new discussion. I myself have been surprised at how much power and weight a lot of people put on what are socio-economic calculations and net present value ratios. It is important that we realise that those calculations tend to differentiate quite a lot between the years. If we were to reduce infrastructure policy to net present value ratio and socio-economic calculations, we could reduce it to an Excelark and figure out what was the most profitable investment. Then a lot of infrastructure investments in Sweden would never have happened. On the contrary, it requires political courage, visions and ideas about how we build a society. To this is to link the government's clear ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will be a permanent world exhibition that implements new technology that enables us to meet the climate challenge of doing what is good here and now. We will also ensure that we are an example to the outside world by showing how Swedish technology can solve problems with transport systems so that they are sustainable. And that's what Carl Schlyter himself is into. It is a climate law that allows us to test the projects in a completely different order from what we have done in the past. We are now taking clear steps with this government to ensure that infrastructure planning and community building in the future will take a completely different consideration of building sustainable. In the past, perhaps it was the Green Party and the Social Democrats and perhaps another party that fought for this. But when I meet representatives in the automotive industry and construction industries or the various planners of municipalities and regions, I dare to say that it is becoming increasingly accepted that this is what society should look like. We need to build sustainable. It's smart to do that. I myself come from Växjö in Småland where we have been proud to build wood for a very long time. It's sustainable and smart. It's our own production. It's better than concrete. We build whole cities in wood. In this way, we take responsibility both for making it a stylish architecture and beautiful habitats and also for building something that is sustainable. This applies not least from the climate point of view, but it is also sustainable socially and economically. I feel that during this parliamentary term there has been a breakthrough. Climate law is an important part of this. But it is also political courage and vision to use politics for something greater than just telling us where roads and railways should go. We're building modern society.
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-248	Madam President, I would like I am delighted with the answer and that my last debate in Parliament will be about visions. That is something that pleases me. Half of the world's trade today is trade in equivalent products. One might ask: Why should we send brownies from the United States to Sweden and gingerbread from Sweden to the United States when we can only change recipes? Much of the transport is unnecessary. Minimising the need for transport is also worth something. Emissions from snow ploughing in Linköping decreased by 17 percent when the professor of optimization tested his theories on snow plow control. It became faster, more environmentally friendly and more efficient only through optimisation technology. There are visions of wood building that I share. It is only a matter of ensuring that we preserve biodiversity. It is one of the most out-of-date global goals. The larger the percentage of wood we can use instead of burning up in our thoughts, the better it is. It is therefore a good thing if we can reduce the need for transport through efficient planning and wise regulation. We are really touchingly in agreement, me and the Minister for Infrastructure. With this, I would like to thank you for the four years in Parliament. This is my last speech. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Madam President, I would like I also want to thank all the incredible, amazing staff who helped me all those years. I'm standing here in borrowed feathers. I didn't even bring my jacket, which is a requirement at plenary, and look, even that can be arranged by the staff here! I thank everyone in this building so terribly for having made the work as a Member of Parliament possible!
i-4c4ca85eb92b8ab4-254	Madam President, I would like Since the issue is closed, I can take this opportunity to say thank you to Carl Schlyter for his incredible courage, commitment and perseverance which go beyond the ordinary. It has sometimes been appreciated and sometimes not appreciated. But I think a lot of people feel that in a fantastic way you've really stood up for what you believe in. We have had a good friendship during the time in Parliament. I've really appreciated that. I'm sure even if you leave this house, we'll see you at the barricades in the future. I wish you luck there!
