i-806351f203f86114-0	Mr President, I would like to In 235 days, there will be elections here in Sweden. It takes place in a situation where our country is doing well and badly. We inherited a large budget deficit. The welfare was underfunded. Youth unemployment was so high that we received support from the European Union. It's unusual, but it looked like that. Step by step we have now changed our focus on politics. Inefficient tax rebates that do not create jobs have been abolished. An unsustainable migration policy has been changed. And unfair tax cuts have been replaced by large investments in more teachers, more police and more staff in elderly care and care. Today, things look brighter in many respects. Over 200,000 more people go to work than when we took office. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. And not since 1981 have so few people been dependent on the benefits of our common insurance systems. This gives us scope for important reforms. In these days 1 1⁄2 million pensioners receive reduced tax, up to SEK 410 more in their wallet every month. But for every new job tax deduction presented by the bourgeois in this Parliament, the gap between pensioners and wage earners would grow further. I think it's obscene. Pensioners should not be taxed in criminal terms. They're to be honored.
i-806351f203f86114-4	However, it is clear that there are major societal problems. We have a violent crime that we cannot tolerate in any way. We'll push it back. As a society in general, we have taken the problems of integration too lightly. New arrivals must enter the labour market much faster. We're gonna make it. We have a welfare that is unique in the world. But it still doesn't always deliver what it's supposed to. And we're going to improve that. I see this as the most important tasks of politics in the coming years. More efforts and more resources will be needed. But none of these problems are solved by major tax cuts. Last year there were over 300 shootings, leading to over 40 dead people. This year has begun with new shootings – in Malmö, Helsingborg, Uppsala and Stockholm. We see criminals with a total lack of respect for human life. It is a terrible development that I am determined to reverse. That is why we are fighting back hard against serious organised crime. The penalties are tightened in over 30 areas, and the resources of the police are greatly strengthened. But we need to do even more. That is why we are now attacking the financial resources of criminals. These gangs are fighting for power and money. But when the police in Gothenburg and Södertälje, for example, together with the municipalities, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Economic Crimes Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and other authorities are moving on entire structures, it will have an effect. In Sweden, the criminals have also found channels into the welfare to shoe themselves on tax money. In the services and construction sectors, hard when everywhere, there are black jobs. And with the black economy comes conflict and exploitation of people. We will continue to fight parallel societies stubbornly and persistently. And when we crush the funding of criminals, the violence in the streets will also decrease. We need a broad political gathering in this fight. Today we need both stricter rules and greater control and better coordination between authorities in order to strangle economic crime. We will ensure that our tax money goes to what it is intended for and never ever to criminal activity.
i-806351f203f86114-13	Mr President, I would like to One of the main challenges is to narrow the unemployment gap between natives and foreign-borns. This requires that the responsible migration policy remains firm, but also that we make clear demands for education, especially to the shortage professions. This requires that we prioritise education in the Swedish language and that we help each other – employers, trade unions, state and municipalities – in order to find jobs that do not require much training. The additional services of welfare are such a way. Today, they are over 11,000. We need a lot more. But we should not do what the bourgeois propose, to legislate on lower wages. This will, in the long run, push down wages for large groups on the Swedish labour market. And it's not the Swedish model. In Sweden, we compete with competence and not with low wages or poorer working conditions. In Sweden, wage formation is the job of the parties – not the politicians. These are two ancient social democratic principles that we will never deviate from. One is that everyone who can work should work. The second is that when you work, you should be able to live on your salary. Mr President, I would like to The country's strong economy now enables us to tackle these major societal problems seriously. The direction of politics is right. It's supposed to be fixed. The resources now created by the fact that more and more people are actually working should not go to tax cuts for those who earn the most, so that ordinary people will have to settle for cuts in welfare and lower wages. My message is a whole different one. The resources will go to more teachers and more police. They will go to service and medical care throughout the country. They should be used to increase security in Sweden, for everyone and not just for some. There's the dividing line in the autumn elections. It is the belief in what politics can achieve but also the responsibility to do it together. The Swedish model should not be phased out. It's going to evolve.
i-806351f203f86114-19	Mr President, I would like to Last year, over 300 so-called shootings were carried out in Sweden – a completely new concept that we have become accustomed to unpleasantly fast. It's a five-year doubling and has led to 42 dead and 135 injured. It's about criminals with hand grenades, like there's war in our country. The new year, 2018, also began with a passerby man being killed by a hand grenade in Vårby Farm in Stockholm. The gang criminality is now seizing suburbs and cities. It is often directed directly at the core functions of the state. Police cars are being blown up, and there are attacks on police stations and at the police station. In DN this weekend we could read about emergency medical care in Malmö. I quote, "Sisters who hide their name tags, a department manager who sleeps with a baseball bat next to the bed, gunshot wounds that bleed into the emergency room." When gang conflicts escalate on the street in Malmö, it is noticed directly at the hospital. ..................................................... This wasn't the script of a dystopian crime story. This is Sweden 2018. We need much tougher legislation. Anyone who threatens the order in Swedish hospitals must be punished. Anyone who threatens healthcare professionals in Swedish hospitals should be severely punished. Doctors, nurses and patients should not have to face threatening invasions in the E.R. The menacing ones should not even be allowed in, but they should be stopped by police or security guards. But more is needed. We want double penalties for gang criminals for locking them in longer, geographically defined detention bans that break up the networks, more cameras where the criminals are, more severe penalties for threats to witnesses and more crimes will lead to expulsion from the country. This is our policy for a new government. It would be nice if the present government began to take the problems very seriously and not primarily blame the government that left Rosenbad almost four years ago. So the state has to take back control. This isn't a negotiation. Dialogue can begin when violence has stopped.
i-806351f203f86114-28	This also requires more police and not less. In absolute terms, we have as many police officers now as Sweden had in 2009, but the police density is the lowest in ten years. The curve is pointing in the wrong direction. The decrease has increased in 2016 and 2017. The Academy of Police has empty seats. Police work isn't attractive enough. Wages are too low, and working conditions are too brutal. Political support for those who work hardest is often too weak. It is not the task of politics to be alarmist or to sow fear in our country, but it is our job to speak plainly. We share people's concerns about developments. We will do everything we can to prevent and combat serious crime.
i-806351f203f86114-31	In our previous debate in this House, I talked about migration policy, about how we in Sweden should take our share of responsibility for a broken world, but we also have the full responsibility for how things go then here in Sweden. My offer of a long-term agreement on migration policy with the Social Democrats remains. I note that Germany, with which we share so many experiences, is now thinking in exactly the same way. A well-thought-out migration policy is a prerequisite for effective integration. We should be able to agree on migration, but integration will probably be more difficult. It is not easy to understand what this government really wants. For us Moderates, integration is about three things: about jobs, about languages and about making demands. First of all, it's about the jobs. The Alliance's proposal for admission is therefore about the crucial importance of the first job. Politics cannot wait passively for the parties. Politics must address the major issues. We lower taxes on low incomes and make it more profitable to work. We are implementing the biggest grant reform in our time, so that it will never pay better to live on benefits than to work. On the contrary, we want to triple the RUT deduction that the government cut down on. RUT has created an industry with 30,000 real jobs. Most of them have gone to the former unemployed – most of them born abroad. Secondly, that is the language. I have repeatedly highlighted the issue of the importance of the Swedish language for integration. Some have simply chosen to misunderstand and stray into reasoning about our national minority languages. But what I was talking about was, of course, what immigrants in all countries and at all times have known, that it is important to clear the language if you want to enter the new country. In Sweden they speak Swedish. You can speak more languages, but also Swedish. From residence permits to citizenship, both the requirements and the driving forces must be clear. The Swedish language is not enough to integrate successfully into our society, but it is absolutely necessary. Thirdly, Swedish integration policy must make demands and give clear signals as to what expectations we have of people coming to our country. If you don't have a basic education, you have to get an education. Everyone needs to assimilate solid social information, not just present. One must actively make oneself employable. If you don't, you can't expect Sweden to pay out subsidies either. I honestly do not know whether our policy will be enough. We must be open to doing much more. I do know, however, that these are problems that will not be solved by themselves. Sweden has tried that for far too long. It's about the jobs, the language and the requirements, because I want more people to succeed in our country.
i-806351f203f86114-40	Mr President, I would like to I hope everyone has had a good time during the weekends around Christmas and New Year. I have. I've had a great time. But I have also – especially the weeks after New Year's – struggled with a strong growing feeling of discomfort, a feeling that has grown every day when I have read the newspapers or watched the TV news. People are being shot to death in pizzerias. People die from a hand grenade they found on the street. There have been bombings against police officers, bombings against police stations, bombings against police cars. The number of particularly vulnerable areas is growing. At the same time, police density is decreasing. The number of violent crimes solved is decreasing. Trust in the police is dropping. People's concerns about crime are increasing. Mr President, I would like to I don't recognize Sweden anymore. This is not and cannot be Sweden. But then I realize that it is Sweden. That's the new Sweden. It is the new, amazing, exciting, dynamic, multicultural kingdom of happiness that so many in this congregation, both now and before, have struggled to create for so many years. Here we are. You've done well. I cannot stand to hear Prime Minister Stefan Löfven repeat his standard phrase time and again: it is unacceptable, it should be orderly. It's just an empty and empty mantra. I do not want to hear a single moderate in this House blame and complain about the development of violence, at least Ulf Kristersson, who sat in Fredrik Reinfeldt's government and is therefore very much responsible for what it looks like in our country today. Crime, especially organised crime, is advancing its positions. Now, as we stand here and talk about how many more police officers are needed in five ten years' time, organised crime is moving its positions further. Serious organised crime eats its way into society, dominates entire districts, creates insecurity, restricts the everyday lives of ordinary honest citizens. Mr President, I would like to In only eight months, it'll be a choice. The Swedish Democrats hereby declare war on serious organised crime.
i-806351f203f86114-47	We are prepared to act vigorously and effectively with all the means and resources at our disposal. Of course, police resources and powers must be dimensioned on the basis of reality. We have understood and maintained this for a long time, unlike the other parties in this House. Police resources will be strengthened. There's gonna be more cops. The powers shall be increased. Secret coercive measures should be able to be used more effectively in organised crime. It shall be possible to impose temporary curfews at night. The Courts of Appeal shall be established. The presentation of a criminal pattern or participation in a criminal organisation shall be sufficient for prosecution and conviction. Absolute zero tolerance in the event of legal abuse shall prevail. Provision shall be made for the possibility of relief from criminal penalties for Crown Witnesses. The right to testify anonymously shall be investigated. Witness and victim protection shall be strengthened. But all of this will take time. At this point, it should be quite obvious to everyone that the police, as they look and work today, are unable to maintain public order and prosecute those responsible for serious crime. It is not because of the individual police, but because of a lack of political will and an incompetent police leadership. It is important that we understand the need to look at how Denmark is now doing. It allows the police to use military resources to maintain law and order, combat gang crime and create security. It is about making maximum use of society's resources, which are available, to forcefully suppress gang crime and to restore public order in Sweden.
i-806351f203f86114-51	Mr President, I would like to The world has never had such great opportunities and never as great threats as it is right now. We stand at a clear crossroads in history. Should the positive development that Hans Rosling was so good at describing, with reduced poverty, increased gender equality and better health be allowed to continue? Or do we give up if it already now and closes borders, builds walls and peers inwards and does not pretend about the global threats that we need to address now if everyone is to have the chance of a better future? Yes, you have to have open eyes and see the problems in our society. I agree with everyone else in this House. And I see the problems in Sweden: gang crime, honour violence, rural challenges and segregation in the suburbs. We must see all this in order to be able to work against it. But we must also talk about the solutions, because we can do this. We can create a sustainable world. And if we in this House don't think it can be done, then who will believe it? If we cannot describe a future to long for, it will instead be the fear of the future that governs social development. At the moment, I am concerned that in the Swedish debate we are whipping up so much fear that it is the one who rules and not the vision of what future we want. I am also concerned that we are so obsessed with the local clouds that we do not see the global storm towering on the horizon that we must act against now if life on this planet is not to be seriously threatened. Climate change is already here. Insects and predators disappear at an alarming rate. The plastic in the oceans is accumulating. In 30 years, we can have more plastic than fish in our seas. At the same time, we have a wavering Europe. Global power maps are redrawn. Religious extremism, nationalism and populism are on the rise. The nuclear threat is a reality again. The global threats may seem distant, but the truth is that they will affect us all. They are just as real as the increasing violent crimes. We know that today there are strong forces that want women's rights, climate and justice to be removed from the global agenda. These forces like to portray Sweden as the home of crime and rape on earth, because they dislike everything we stand for: openness, democracy, humanism, feminism and climate leadership. Sweden should be dismantled; there is a clear such agenda. Sweden, which has the world's most progressive climate policy and stands up for abortion rights and human rights, should be blacked out. We're a threat to the dark forces. It's easy to see. I would therefore like to call on all decent parties to raise their eyes! Don't fall into the trap of destabilising forces! It may be tempting to paint a picture of a Sweden in chaos, but the price is to create fear, hopelessness and hatred. The truth is that we are a country that gives hope to the rest of the democratic world. Sweden has a strong economy, record-high employment rate and top position on most of the international indices that measure climate work, gender equality, health, happiness and innovation. It is important to remember, and it is irresponsible to never tell about this. If you don't know what you have, you can't be afraid of what you have. Mr President, I would like to We have problems in Sweden, but the greatest danger I see today is a Sweden where more and more people lose hope of a better world. The greatest danger I see is a Sweden where income gaps are increasing, as they do with the Alliance's policy, where people end up behind and outside, because then the discontent that is the soil from which the populist movements feed. The greatest danger is a Sweden where the sickness rates due to depression and burnout continue to fall and where we never talk about how we can get a better world and how we can feel better. The greatest danger is a Sweden where we never lift our eyes and see the possibilities of how, together with the power of diversity and green transformation, we can build a future that we can all long for.
i-806351f203f86114-65	Mr President, I would like to We are now entering the election year, and election day is less than eight months away. Much is at stake on that day in September, because in Stefan Lövven's Sweden integration fails. Small companies are subject to penalties. The state of law cannot be maintained throughout the country. Climate emissions are increasing. Care queues are growing. In the September elections there is a chance to use their vote for change, to replace the Social Democrats and shape a new leadership for Sweden. Sweden is at risk of being split, and a new underclass of people who have a long way to the first job is emerging. According to the Employment Service, unemployment is 4 per cent among natives and 22 per cent among foreign-borns. There's a scary difference. That so little has been done to reduce this cleavage is a responsibility that rests heavily on the government's shoulders. There are many of us who are concerned about the consequences of the split, about the tension and tension and about insecurity and people's vulnerability. Security is lacking in many of the suburbs. Heavy weapons are in orbit. People are shot down with automatic weapons or are killed by hand grenades left on the street. People must be able to have their things in peace, whether in their villa, car or business premises. Every time a small businessman suffers crime and closes his shop, it is a scandal. Security is also about the vulnerability and integrity of women and the absurdity that women have been allowed to accept for years to be touched and violated by certain men. Mr President, I would like to This autumn's metoo blasted with full power. It is important that it is not a fly or a sparkle, something that happened in the autumn of 2017 and that we can now put behind us. The question is so much bigger and more important than that. In fact, we are only at the beginning of this equality revolution, and much work remains to be done. There must be zero tolerance of sexual abuse, harassment and violations. Together we need to continue working with values and attitudes towards women. We need to tighten the penalties for rape, ensure that women's shelters receive long-term conditions and improve sex and cohabitation education at school. It is up to us to show that we are on the side of the vulnerable, for everyone has the right to feel safe. Mr President, I would like to The environmental issue is one of the predestined issues of our time. Emissions in Sweden are increasing, and warning bells are ringing when the weather is becoming increasingly extreme. I do not turn a blind eye to the challenges, but I will not stop at the description of the problems either. I am not committed to politics to stand by, complain and watch, but I want to see results and bring about change. I know what effective integration is all about. I've seen it my whole life back in Värnamo. But I have not met it in the form of statistics and figures, but in the form of childhood friends, classmates and neighbours in the Gnosjö region. I haven't seen it in tables or diagrams, but on the football field, in the grocery store or on the workshop floor. I have seen what entrepreneurship and action can do when you do something together and when you take on a task. When people get a job, integration also works. Many more people can get their first job if we dare to think new, if we invest in small businesses and if we make sure that we open the door to the labour market for more people through entry jobs. Security must also come to the suburbs and the countryside. We need to make sure we have more police officers and more prosecutors, so that more criminals can be convicted. In addition, we need to provide more means to secure technical evidence but also to strengthen witness protection. As far as climate emissions are concerned, we need to do more. A powerful green car bonus is needed. Fossil aviation fuel needs to be replaced with biofuels. It needs to be more expensive to shit and cheaper to do the right thing. But no matter how many good thoughts we politicians think and how much our environmental commitment is, it is the companies and entrepreneurs who will contribute with the answers. It is therefore important to give them the right conditions to develop the next major eco-innovation. What they do not need is more red tax increases and ineffective policies. Mr President, I would like to The autumn elections will be about values. The struggle taking place throughout the Western world between xenophobic populists and liberal forces will also be here with us. It is between humanity, mobility and diversity, on the one hand, and solitude, mistrust and collective guilt, on the other. When Sweden drifts apart, when climate emissions increase and when the failed integration splits Sweden, political leaders are required to take responsibility. This requires a new leadership for Sweden.
i-806351f203f86114-80	Mr President, I would like to Colleagues and listeners! In autumn 2017, a wind of change swept through Sweden and through large parts of the world. Women said from: That's enough! We're not taking this anymore. Let's talk about what happened. Now we demand change! No matter how painful it may be to hear the stories, it is necessary to do so, for it is the key to something better in the future. Now it is necessary for politics to respond to the metoo stories. Now we need better sex crime legislation with rules on consent and negligence. We have achieved a higher level of support for women's shelters. It was a big backup, but it's gonna take more now. We have received training in the judicial system. That is good, but it will take even more. But this is also linked to power and power relations, with economic power and power in the labour market. It is no coincidence that there are often more violations where there are many precarious jobs. It's about powerlessness and vulnerability. It is also about economic dependence. Mr President, I would like to I was at a meeting in Småland a few months ago. I talked to a woman like that before a meeting. We talked about what it was like to make fun of each other. Suddenly she became very serious and said: I live out here in a cabin in the woods. I have a terrible pension. I'd like to move, because my old man's not nice. But I can't afford to move, she said. Pension, salary, security and financial independence are also freedom when we talk about gender equality. We face major and crucial challenges. When I look around in Sweden and when I look out over the world I see two things that bother me more than anything else. One threat is bizarre inequality. A few men own as much as half humanity. Some draw away and have a lot of power and a lot of money. Others have a bit of power and money. It threatens the fundamental cohesion of our societies. Increasing equality must be a policy objective.
i-806351f203f86114-86	The second threat is obviously the galloping climate change. We have a little time but a lot that needs to be done quickly and decisively in order to reduce emissions. I wish Sweden were a country that could really go ahead. We have solutions. It is the task of politics to give hope and solutions and not just paint with the big broad black brush when describing reality. It is possible to redistribute financially. We can have a tax system that is beneficial not primarily for billionaires but for those who work hard and have low wages. We want to see that. We can have a housing policy that invests in building up the housing shortage for those who do not find an apartment instead of spending money on interest rebates and ROT renovations. Where are the shootings taking place? Where's the heavy crime? Where can the criminal gangs recruit the easiest? It's not hard to see. This is where the income is lowest, where the overcrowding is greatest and where the confidence in the future is the least. It's about how to grow up. It's about terms. It's about school. It's about inequality. It's about public service. If you don't see it, it won't be enough with more cops and harder hands. You have to do more than that.
i-806351f203f86114-89	There are also solutions for the climate. Much has been done well. We have done a lot together with the government and have far greater ambitions than the opposition on the right. But that's not enough. Emissions are not going down the way they have to. We need to take a bigger hold. It is not just time to talk about different support systems for cars. It is time to set an end date after which no new fossil-powered cars will be sold in Sweden anymore. It is time to really redirect the AP funds. After all, our pension money is pumped into some of the worst oil giants instead of renewables. It is time to do like the British and have a green investment bank that helps the base industry to change. Climate policy needs to be taken more seriously. You can do this. You can solve major societal challenges. It is so clear when I listen to these introductions that when the Right sees as its strategy to play on people's anxiety and fear, it is the Left that stands for the power of action and hope. That is the way to a better future, Mr President.
i-806351f203f86114-91	Mr President, I would like to Being in the world's top ten in ten years' time will be the goal of Swedish school policy. The ambitions should be high when it comes to our children and their future. Every day in the world children are lifted out of poverty thanks to education. The opportunity to get where you want, no matter where you come from, starts in the knowledge school. The class trip begins in the classroom. I want the school to be a place where dreams are created, but above all where knowledge makes it possible for children to realize their dreams. PISA 2015 was a trend break for Sweden; the results began to point upwards after the 2011 major school reforms. The results of knowledge improved. But now there is reason to be concerned again, for now the results are falling again. Last spring, 17 1⁄2 percent of the students in the ninth grade received such low grades that they did not qualify for upper secondary school. That is the highest figure ever measured in our country. The number of applicants for the important teacher training is falling again after rising for a number of consecutive years under the alliance government. A teacher wrote the other day, "I had to tell 13 times about mobile phones in class today." 13 times, therefore, a review/ work/ discussion was interrupted. 13 times students lost focus from what the lesson was about. The majority of teachers now find mobile phones to be highly disturbing in teaching. But it's just a part of the disruption of the workers' bed in our schools. And it is the weakest students who constantly lose out on the mess in the classrooms. We must restore order and peace of mind in school. We must restore the status and attractiveness of the teaching profession. For a country that wants to invest in the future and wants the next generation to have it even better than we do, school is the most important social institution. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Crime Prevention Council presented a very worrying report. Of course, one can choose to turn a blind eye to it, but we should not do that. Confidence in the judiciary is falling sharply. People's, mostly women's, concerns about being out in the streets and squares have increased greatly. Girls in the suburbs harassed by Muslim moral police. Women don't dare go out at night. The number of police officers in Sweden is now falling, as it should increase. The number of police officers increased sharply during the alliance government, but now it is falling again. The rule of law is a liberal creation. Those who lose most if the rule of law does not work are the weakest individuals in society. If you do not have a functioning rule of law, it is the one who can throw the biggest stone that decides in the square, the one who has the sharpest gun or the one who has the money to buy his own security that wins when the rule of law does not work. The rule of law is the best friend of the weakest. In order for Sweden to stay together, we must pursue an integration policy that works much better. Here we all have reason to be self-critical. We need to create simpler jobs with lower entry wages for low-skilled immigrants. It is better to have a job to go to even if the salary is low than to be in social exclusion for years. We need to fight extremism. On one point, I've definitely reconsidered. We need to put an end to more religious free schools in our suburbs. Mr President, I would like to Liberal values are under threat today. Right-wing extremists, left-wing extremists, Islamists, terrorists, the IS-list can be made long on those who threaten our Western liberal model of society. In the long run, it is a strong school of knowledge with high educational ideals that is the most important counter-force against extremism and intolerance. Effective integration reduces social exclusion. A stronger Swedish defence and membership of the western defence organisation protects our liberal and western social model. In the coming years, major reforms are needed to improve integration, better education, greater security and security. To those of you who long for it, I would say, "Hold on, there are only eight months left!"
i-806351f203f86114-102	Mr President, I would like to The term of office is coming to an end. We have reason to ask: Are we in a better position than four years ago? What trade-offs have the red - greens made? What has Stefan Löfven prioritised? If we look back with those questions in front of our eyes, we see: No, we are not in a better position. There are doubled care queues, heavy reductions in LSS, elderly people who do not get accommodation places, a spiral of death shootings and a beautiful economy. We see a pattern of lack of leadership. The red-greens have no idea how to build Sweden stronger. Stefan Löfven has not been a leader but an internal mediator fully engaged in managing the conflicts that exist in his own organisation and government. The examples are many. Stefan Löfven formed a government without a Minister for Integration. To appease his left wing, he said that it was outdated and a problematic concept, such as that it was outdated to tell people what values apply here and problematic to help people get jobs and learn the language. Then Stefan Löfven abolished the queue billionaire who hijacked the care queues. He thereby removed the requirements for his S-marked county council. When the demands disappeared, the care queue doubled. Stefan Löfven appointed a Social Democratic bureaucrat as chief of police. Scandal after scandal creates a crisis of confidence. Police leave the profession, but the chief of police may remain in office. The Prime Minister cannot unite his party around a foreign policy. He has a foreign minister who damages our security relations and a defence minister who will try to rebuild them in silence afterwards. It's a double command in security policy. Mr President, I would like to Time and again Stefan Löfven puts the mood at Sveavägen 68 ahead of Sweden's best. But the Prime Minister is doing what he can to keep us from reviewing his leadership. Instead, he says: Look at the economy, how good it is! He beats his chest: it's my fault! Stefan Löfven is like the rooster who thinks that the sun rises because he crows and does not realize that he crows because the sun rises!
i-806351f203f86114-110	The whole world is booming. The economy is going well. But the fact is that Sweden lags behind in area by area. Growth per capita is falling. Sweden is losing competitiveness in the innovation ranking, in the patent ranking and in the EU's unemployment rate. The red-green makes Sweden weaker. When the Prime Minister says that Sweden is doing well, I think of the 84 000 people who are stuck in the care queues, the 20 000 care homes that will be missing in 2030, the doubling of sexual crimes and the shootings. I am thinking, Mr President, of the fact that every day two people with disabilities receive their personal assistance withdrawn. Come with me, Stefan Löfven, to Mullsjö and meet autistic Niclas whose LSS support you have withdrawn. Tell him and his family that Sweden is doing well. This government stands for a lack of welfare. Sweden deserves better. Sweden deserves an alliance government. Sweden deserves a promise of welfare. That is what we Christian Democrats stand for. We want and will cut the care queues, build away the shortage of retirement homes, reverse the police crisis, introduce flexible parental insurance and let Sweden's best be in focus. A vote for the Christian Democrats is a vote for change, and without us there will be no change.
i-806351f203f86114-115	Mr President, I would like to I have identified three serious societal problems that we need to address. Major crime must be pushed back. New arrivals should be able to start working and become self-sufficient much faster. The welfare will be built for everyone and the whole country. The question now is: How do we best solve and deal with these problems? To me, the answer is self-evident. We should not phase out the Swedish model by legislating on lower wages. We should not impair working conditions. We're not cutting down on welfare. Then the gaps increase. Then insecurity grows. This weakens the cohesion of our country. None of the challenges facing Sweden are solved by major tax cuts. In the coming years, the economic space will be used to increase the security of everyone in our country. We're going to secure welfare and crack organized crime. I will do what is necessary for Sweden to be safe. It goes a long way before a new job tax deduction. We will invest in more teachers, more police and more staff in health care. We will invest in vocational training and the Swedish language so that new arrivals can start working faster. We will ensure that economic success is shared by everyone and not just by some. We are doing this with reduced pensioner's tax, increased child benefit and an additional contribution to the trade union movement. Sweden should also be safe in a new age. My message to the people of Sweden when we go to elections is as follows: If we stick together it is possible. We're going forward together.
i-806351f203f86114-120	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Lövven's lateness often sounds like this: Everyone who can work should work. Everyone should be able to live on their wages. It is quite easy to agree with just that. The only problem is that you don't do anything about them. They become quite meaningless if they are not accompanied by reforms that mean exactly that. Today it takes eight years for even half of the new arrivals in our country to have some kind of livelihood. The unemployment rate among Swedish citizens is barely measurable, among EU citizens 7%, for those who come from Asia 22% and for those who come from Africa 27%. Concrete proposals must be made if problems are to be resolved. We know that it is incredibly difficult to do this. But if you don't even try, you can't solve the problems. Politics is about seeing the problems without blinkers and then presenting reforms that solve the problems. This government doesn't do one thing or the other.
i-806351f203f86114-123	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we have a very clear result: unemployment is falling compared to your time. You left behind a higher unemployment rate than when you took office. Now unemployment is falling. Employment is also increasing in all groups. But it is true that unemployment is higher among the new arrivals and those born in other countries, and we must, of course, attack that. It is no longer true that it takes eight years. We have helped each other, Ulf Kristersson, to shorten the time for new arrivals. Eight years applied to those who came here in 2008 and 2009. But, among other things, your reform of transferring responsibility for new arrivals from the municipality to the Public Employment Service helped to shorten that time. We supported that. In addition to that, we are now not only giving the new arrivals a right, but now we are also making demands: now you are also going to make sure to educate yourself to be a shortage profession. That's how we're gonna keep going. Let us work together on this.
i-806351f203f86114-126	Mr President, I would like to This is the second favourite employment that the Prime Minister has, namely to always rewrite history afterwards – much like it had no significance that we had the biggest recession since the 1930s a number of years ago and that we are living in an unlikely boom right now. The problem is that it is now the concern for crime is increasing. This is where policemen choose to leave their profession. It is now the problems that we have to solve that are in front of us and our eyes. Then it is not enough to point backwards. Then it is not enough to say: you want to reduce the tax! and then note that you yourself hardly dare to touch the job tax deductions that we introduced in order to make it more profitable for ordinary people to go to work. I don't think that's good enough. One must point out the problems that exist here and now, take them seriously and present concrete reforms that could solve the problem. I think the Prime Minister avoids that.
i-806351f203f86114-129	Mr President, I would like to No, we're not going to rewrite history, but we need to be able to look at the facts. We had a very serious financial crisis in Sweden in 2008 and 2009, but we did not have it in 2012, 2013 and 2014. That's when you ruled. That's when you made sure the budget deficit grew. You're an accessory to that, Ulf Kristersson. Low economic activity, high economic activity – sometimes it sounds on the right-wing leader as if it is only the decision. Why are you making an effort in politics? You're just hoping that you'll come up with the right business cycle. Here it is politics that determines. Together, we shall ensure that our country develops with cohesion, and then it will not be possible to propose tax cuts of SEK 100 billion as a bourgeoisie, because then insecurity will increase and welfare will deteriorate. As far as the police are concerned, we're making bets. We are training far more policemen now than ever before under the bourgeois government. I'm worried when I hear the Moderate Leader say that the serious crime and the rape problem are here to stay. That's not how we attack violence.
i-806351f203f86114-133	Mr President, I would like to As early as 2012, i.e. a few years before the election, Stefan Löfven was interviewed in Agenda i SVT, and then Stefan Löfven said: Heightening the retirement age is not the first thing we should look at. The important thing is to make sure that people are able to work. A nurse, a construction worker doesn't even come up to 65 years of age before they have to stop working. This is how it sounded throughout the election campaign. It's not about us raising the retirement age, but we're going to work on solving work environment problems and the like. Stefan Lövven's government is now likely to come forward with strong proposals for an increased retirement age. Then my question to Stefan Löfven is: Does Stefan Löfven mean that the working environment is no longer a problem? Or does he feel that it is no longer an important problem? Or has Stefan Löfven given up?
i-806351f203f86114-135	Mr President, I would like to The pension system is extremely important to develop so that we know that pensioners have good security in their old age. We have seen major problems in the current pension system, and this is thanks to a good news: we are getting older and older. That's good, but then the money has to be enough. All those who now sit on their side and say that this is not a problem must then explain to future pensioners how much worse pensions will be if you do nothing about the pension system. That's your job now, Jimmie Åkesson. How much worse are the pensions going to be? I'm gonna make sure my pensions get better. I will also take into account the fact that there are people who have hard jobs. I myself have been out there in the shop for a number of years, and I have many comrades who have worked their whole life in the shop. I know how tough it is. That is why we are also adding a factor that takes into account that some people actually have tough jobs and will not be able to cope all the way through. Then they should also have good conditions.
i-806351f203f86114-137	Mr President, I would like to My questions were not really about the pension system as a whole, but were about whether Stefan Löfven believes that the health and safety problems no longer exist or whether he does not think they are so important anymore or whether he has actually given up on health and safety issues. It is a fact that health and safety problems, sick leave and the like continue to increase. It's a fact. Of course everyone here, I think, understands that we need to work more to cope with pensions as well. But then the first question is: Why does Stefan Löfven choose to cooperate with two parties that want us to work less? The second issue is that an irresponsible immigration policy has filled up with people who would save pensions, and now it is recognised that this is not likely to happen without, on the contrary, becoming a burden on the pension system – and then you raise the retirement age. I think it's a little bloated.
i-806351f203f86114-139	Mr President, I would like to It gets a little strange when the Swedish Democrats talk about pensions but do not want to talk about the pension system. It kind of doesn't add up. You have to look at how the pension system actually works and how we get the resources that make the elderly have a good financial security that they are so well worth. That is also why we are making sure that the pension system is rebuilt so that it is actually sustainable. Now we can tell future pensioners that pensions will be better than they would have been if we had left this system unchanged. It wasn't sustainable. We're investing in the work environment. It is we who add money to work environment initiatives and work environment research. It is we who employ people in welfare, and we do so because we do not give priority to tax cuts. With the tax cuts that the Swedish Democrats prioritise, there will be less resources for welfare and more sick people in welfare. That's what it looks like.
i-806351f203f86114-142	Mr President, I would like to I hope the Prime Minister feels rested for the new year, because the question that I will be asking today I will continue to ask until Stefan Löfven shows greater momentum. Last week there were figures from the Employment Service showing that the unemployment rate for natives is 4 per cent and that for foreign-borns the unemployment rate is 22 per cent. The figures clearly show that new arrivals find it extremely difficult to enter the Swedish labour market and that we have a prime minister who does not have the strength to do what is necessary. The government's inaction has meant three lost years for integration. The fact that everyone is coming no longer seems to be a thought found in Rosenbad. I know that the Prime Minister is happy to talk about the need for education. The importance of education is absolutely true. But not everyone can get on the school bench, but it must be possible to get to work.
i-806351f203f86114-146	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, it is quite correct that unemployment is higher for newly arrived and foreign born than for Swedes, and that is something you have to address. However, more and more people are getting jobs – more foreign-born women and more foreign-born men. The group is growing, so unemployment does not look like diving, but more people get jobs. Do not blackwash this, but let us take the problem seriously. We have a challenge, yes, but don't black it out so it looks like new arrivals don't get jobs at all. Here the bourgeois and we have actually helped each other and made sure that the time is now shortened for the new arrivals to get into work. Education is extremely important. Establishment jobs, which are now being developed by the parties, are extremely important. Extra welfare services are such an effort. We're up to over 11,000 now, Annie Lööf. Is it good or is it bad? Shall we continue down that road?
i-806351f203f86114-148	Mr President, I would like to It is not good to watch passively when Sweden is about to fail with integration. Extra services are about municipalities being able to place former grant-dependent people in extra services that are fully subsidized by the state. These aren't real jobs. What we need is to invest in people getting their own salary and long-term, lasting jobs with colleagues and three-fika. But what I hear from the Prime Minister is different excuses and not a single concrete proposal for real jobs. Every third foreign born in Sweden has low economic standards. New arrivals don't come to work. The gap in employment between native and foreign born is the largest in the entire OECD, throughout the Western world. Integration is one of our most important issues, and I therefore ask again: Can Stefan Löfven mention the three most important measures besides education that the government – not some others – has proposed for new arrivals to get jobs?
i-806351f203f86114-151	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, the description of reality is wrong. Let us be careful in describing reality. Let us also challenge what is a problem, but that Sweden is the worst in this area is not true. It is simply a wrong task. We get praise from many countries. In fact, in Sweden, foreign-born women have a higher employment rate than women overall in many European countries. It's not good enough, so the problem is still there, but don't black out, because it's no use to Sweden! That's the first thing I want to say. The second is that now that we're talking about jobs, Annie Lööf says: Show us what you're doing, but don't count on education! But how can you get a job if you don't have the right education? We have 100,000 jobs that won't be filled. It's vvs fitters, it's welders, it's truck drivers, you name it, and there's no one who's going to get those jobs unless they're properly trained. Education is a key factor, and I find it sad that the Center Party devalues education so. We're not doing it!
i-806351f203f86114-155	Mr President, I would like to In 2009, the bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats in Gothenburg decided to privatise large parts of port operations. One of the companies admitted was the notorious anti-union APM Terminals. It hasn't gone very well. The Union simply closed down its union because it met such a difficult employer. There's been a lot of conflict. The company has laid off dock workers who have worked there this year to call them in as hourly employees the following week. There have been conflicts instead of sitting down and negotiating. Now this irresponsible employer in Gothenburg is being used as an argument from a Social Democratic government to perhaps restrict the right to strike. Why are you taking the side of employers?
i-806351f203f86114-158	Mr President, I would like to How employers do by giving notice or not giving notice is a major problem in many areas. We have to do something about quitting and taking in hourly workers. As far as the port of Gothenburg is concerned, no one has said that the right to strike should be restricted. But the harbour in Gothenburg has a long-term problem where one does not get to grips with a conflict that is only ongoing and that risks going on for so long that the harbour in Gothenburg becomes obsolete. Does Jonas Sjöstedt think that it is a success if no one should use the harbour in Gothenburg and Swedish industry anymore and the entire Swedish business community is damaged? The Swedish model is based on buying and selling. Workers buy working conditions and wages. Employers buy work peace. But if you never get to work and the conflict is forced to go on, then we are obliged to look at what is not working and what we are going to do about it. That investigation will come in spring.
i-806351f203f86114-161	Mr President, I would like to It is obviously a very serious situation when 98% of the time of conflict comes from an irresponsible employer such as the Port of Gothenburg. The question is how it leads to the conclusion that the law of conflict for employees should perhaps be limited. The solution must be negotiations and sitting down. But the foundation is also in your privatisation decision to let this type of employer into the port of Gothenburg. If you limit the law of conflict, you do it not only in the port of Gothenburg – you do it for everyone. This can have a major impact on the entire Swedish labour market. Now, however, I am not sure what the Social Democrats want. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's reply. He said there would be no deterioration of the right to strike. Is that a promise, Stefan Löfven? Can you promise here today that you will not present any deterioration in the right to strike to Sweden's employees?
i-806351f203f86114-164	Mr President, I would like to Sjöstedt now says that conflict law may have a major impact, and he says this in order to seek as many populist points as possible on this. We have said that we have such a long and serious situation in the port of Gothenburg that something needs to be done. Then you can sit down and negotiate, says Sjöstedt. Yeah, I know how it's done, and that's exactly what you've done. It has even had the Mediation Institute inside, but two of the Mediation Institute's perhaps most experienced mediators had to say that unfortunately, this is not possible, because we also have to have two parties who want to settle. Precisely why the dispute ended in this way, they will have to explain, but we have a problem, and we cannot just sit and say that we can do as we can with the Port of Gothenburg. There are great values at stake here. This does not automatically mean that you should go in and limit any general right to strike. That is not the issue. But we need to see this problem and try to solve it. That is our duty, and I will make sure that we are involved in that.
i-806351f203f86114-168	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the results of knowledge in Swedish schools fall after the Alliance's reforms. The number of failings in grade 9 has never been higher than it was in the spring. I guess it wasn't that easy to fix the school in 100 days. Now the government has taken a strong decision, one of the first in the field of school after three years in office, and that is to halve the number of national tests at upper secondary school. Knowledge-sverige takes care of the forehead. My question to Stefan Löfven is: How does halving the number of national examinations improve the results of knowledge in Swedish schools?
i-806351f203f86114-171	Mr President, I would like to The teachers, among other things, feel that there is too much administration in school, and I am happy to listen to the profession. However, the big question for school is how to ensure that you have enough resources in school. There we make the biggest investment in the school in many, many years – far greater than the bourgeois government at all – and that is because we have ended with major tax cuts and make sure to invest. The big initiative means that children should have much more support in early ages. That is why we want a read-write-count guarantee and hope that Parliament will accept it. The big effort we make on the teachers. There are now more who have been teachers before who want to come back. We will ensure that the status of the teaching profession is raised. The big investment is on more people in school, and it is the initiative on the whole that is important. Then we will also listen to the profession: What do teachers, school leaders and principals think is the best way to increase the results?
i-806351f203f86114-175	Mr President, I would like to I am very concerned when Stefan Löfven calls the national tests unnecessary administration. There is a lot of unnecessary administration in school, and the new bureaucratic routines introduced in what you call the reading-write-count guarantee are, of course, highly critical of. But national skills tests are not unnecessary administration! It is an absolutely crucial element and was part of a strategy to raise the results of knowledge when we introduced the national tests even in grade 3 in primary school. Now you want to halve the number of national tests, and the reason given by the two education ministers is that it is unnecessary administration but also that students are stressed by it. It will not be possible to lift up the knowledge results in Swedish schools unless the students make an effort. There must be incentives and incentives in school for students to make an effort. Making demands in school is not being mean to the students, Stefan Löfven. To make demands in school is to care about the future of the students.
i-806351f203f86114-178	Mr President, I would like to That's where we're in complete agreement. It is clear that we should make demands in school, as well as in working life. A society without demands is not a good society. It's done. But I choose to listen to the School Commission and the teachers, that is, the profession. We are not saying that national tests are automatically unnecessary administration. The question is, how many are they supposed to be? It is important to listen to the profession there. I choose to do that. Jan Björklund probably knows the area better than the teachers. He'll think so. The guarantee we propose is appreciated by the teachers' unions. It is important to show that children receive support early, so that they do not need individual support at grades 8 and 9. It is in preschool class and in first grade, second grade and third grade that the support should be deployed – early. Then it is possible to gradually correct the situation. There will be higher school results in Swedish school.
i-806351f203f86114-181	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven sounds as usual proud and satisfied when he talks about what he has achieved as Prime Minister. Your Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin seems just as proud. From what I understand from the interview in Dagens Nyheter published today, she does not seem to think that we should talk so much about the shortcomings in welfare. But it is not possible to sweep the welfare and care crisis under the carpet. I have a simple question for the Prime Minister: Stefan Löfven! Are you satisfied with how well-being has developed under your responsibility?
i-806351f203f86114-183	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course, in large parts I am also proud of our country and what we have achieved. This is not primarily about me personally, but about what the Swedish people are doing. The result of the fall in unemployment and that more people are in jobs, what the Swedish people have achieved, is what I feel proud of. That is the result that I naturally want to improve and look at how we can manage in the best possible way. When school results are raised in school, it is not about me, but I am happy for the children and young people. They're the ones who should be proud. We will do this work together. When we invest in welfare, we do it really well. You want to continue to reduce taxes. The Christian Democrats are on the race. You will reduce the taxes, the four bourgeois parties together, by SEK 100 billion. Don't tell me it strengthens Swedish welfare. It doesn't.
i-806351f203f86114-188	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven knows very well that the Alliance's policy led to more money for the care, gave more nurses in the business, not only in real numbers but also measured per inhabitant. Each nurse also received one month's salary more. The Prime Minister does not mention in a word what he has done to face the health crisis. I can understand that. You haven't done anything. You do not have a single reform that can reverse the crisis in health care. It is your policy that has doubled the care queues. Today, 84 000 people are stuck in medical care. It is your policy today that causes two people a day to lose the right to personal assistance. It is with your policy that 40% of municipalities have a shortage of retirement homes. You're responsible for a welfare weakness, Stefan Löfven. How can you be proud?
i-806351f203f86114-191	Mr President, I would like to An error does not improve because you repeat it. We make the biggest investment in health care in many years. We spend more money on patients and patient contact. Among other things, we do this by hiring more people. We add a lot of resources to the county councils. They're the ones who run the medical system. More people are now employed in Swedish welfare, not just in health care. There is a total of 100 000 more in Swedish welfare. What do the Christian Democrats think? Is it getting better or worse if you hire more people? We're making a special effort on maternity care. We're making a special investment in cancer care. Once again, we are processing what you started. All of this must be met by resources. There, of course, we stand against each other. You are going to lower taxes and at the same time add so much more resources. It never makes sense. It has not done so the three previous times you have been in the government, and it will not do so again.
i-806351f203f86114-195	Mr President, I would like to The issue of integration will dominate Swedish politics, not only during this election year, but for a very long time to come. As I said at the beginning, there will be three main issues for us, namely jobs, language and requirements. Let me get back to the language. Pew Research showed in 2017 that language is the most important thing to become a part of a new country. In Sweden, two out of three say that it is very important to be able to speak Swedish. Another one in four thinks it's quite important. When almost the whole population thinks that something is quite or very important, then it is probably important. Yesterday, we Moderates presented a broad programme of four concrete proposals to inculcate the importance of language for good integration. There should be an individual performance plan in SFI, Swedish for immigrants. Any person who discontinues his or her studies or does not achieve results shall lose part of his or her remuneration. Just being in the classroom is not enough. More people must also learn Swedish. We want to require approved basic knowledge of Swedish to obtain a permanent residence permit in our country, and there must be a language requirement associated with citizenship. It exists in our Nordic neighbours and in Germany, and it should also be here. Finally, we link Swedish studies to support for living, which is important not least in order to reach newly arrived women who otherwise risk isolation that is not only linguistic. To make demands is to care. It sounds like a cliché, but it's true. Clear requirements are part of the map itself to understand a new country. I do not think the government is taking this issue seriously. The Swedish language is difficult but not at all impossible – just like good politics.
i-806351f203f86114-203	Mr President, I would like to Now we have listened to all the party leaders who have highlighted the different needs of our society. Does anyone believe that all these needs are solved by major tax cuts and cuts? We will not solve more crimes by means of tax cuts. We do not teach children any more at school through tax cuts. And more new arrivals will not go to vocational training by means of major tax cuts. Sweden needs more teachers, police officers and nurses. We are building a police training course in Malmö. There's gonna be one in the West, too. There will be a new regiment on Gotland. It is the common thing that needs to be strengthened, and it requires resources. Then it is not time for more major tax cuts. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Moderate Leader is: With the great and growing needs facing Sweden, how can Ulf Kristersson propose major tax cuts? That doesn't make any sense.
i-806351f203f86114-207	Mr President, I would like to Since I sometimes have some objections to government policy, I must first say that I agree with one thing. I agree with the Government's proposal put forward this morning to bring together all the grant payments in one authority to get at cheating, not because I proposed this precisely three years ago, but because it is true and right. We can disagree on how high the contributions should be. We can disagree on how high marginal taxes should be. But it is good if we can agree to stop subsidy fraud and stop tax evasion. Having said this, Prime Minister, I would like to point out that we are reducing the tax on low incomes in order to make it more profitable to work instead of living on subsidies. You never really understood that. If it pays no more to work than to receive benefits, more people will remain dependent on benefits. We are reducing marginal taxes, because we find it immoral that the state takes more than half of an increase in income when some make extra efforts to take a new job. It is right to lower the tax on them; it is wrong to take the money away from them.
i-806351f203f86114-211	Mr President, I would like to I want equality to increase in our Sweden, and equality is now increasing for the first time in many years. We can see that from the so-called Gini coefficient. And it doesn't happen by itself. This is because we have a government that makes conscious decisions that increase justice. The OECD, the World Bank and Nobel laureates in the economy agree that we need an economic policy for greater equality. Equality is, in short, a prerequisite for sustainable growth. The politics that Ulf Kristersson now presents has been tested in the 70's, in the 90's and in the 00's. What happened? The gaps grew. The deficits grew. Out in the world, the politics that Ulf Kristersson now stands and defends has been condemned, but for the Moderates it is still a vision of the future. You are not even offside, Ulf Kristersson; you are actually outside the field. Those with a higher income should also contribute more. Major tax cuts are the wrong way to go, especially now that there is so much need for joint investment.
i-806351f203f86114-215	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it was your tax policy that was tested in the 1970s.
i-806351f203f86114-216	I've spent several years on the Gini coefficient, Prime Minister. In fact, the Gini coefficient in Sweden was at its lowest in 1981. At that time, the marginal tax rate was 80%. Astrid Lindgren had written her story about Pomperipossa. Then you would finally understand that there was a border just below the sky where the tax ceiling was. If you raised taxes more than that, you drove entrepreneurs out of the country. They drove directors from the stage. Confiscative treasures were created that no one had any respect for. You tried that in the '70s. If you want healthy equality, you should aim for children to succeed better in the next generation through good schooling and reasonable taxes. You've never understood that.
i-806351f203f86114-218	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of roofs just under the sky, I read the other day in some ad that a refugee roof should be considered in Sweden. It was an ad from the Moderates. It was the group leader of the Moderates who spoke in it. It sounds good to finally realize that there may be a need for a roof. Not long ago, the Moderates spokesperson of migration policy spokespersons about where this ceiling might be. He spoke of some 30 000 asylum seekers per year. It is a more normal level than today. 30 000 asylum seekers in one year, how many in ten years? Very many. Mr President, I would like to My question to Ulf Kristersson is simple. Where is the Moderate refugee roof, which is now to be considered?
i-806351f203f86114-221	Mr President, I would like to I have said many times that Swedish migration policy has been unprincipled and unthinking for decades. We have never thought through this difficult equation, where Sweden takes its responsibility for all the misery in the world as a rich country, where at the same time we take full responsibility for how it goes for integration in Sweden and where we ask ourselves both what we should offer to help people in need and what we in Sweden need that we do not already have. These are difficult questions. Your answer is always nothing. Close the world out. Our answer is that these are difficult things-- let's take them very seriously. I give you a right, Jimmie Åkesson. Many voted for your party because they were very dissatisfied with poor Swedish migration policy. I understand them. But Sweden needs the world. Sweden is part of the world. A well-thought-out migration policy is the very prerequisite for a workable integration policy. I think we have it now. What Germany shows us is that there is a limit to how much you can do, and that is what we have learned.
i-806351f203f86114-225	Mr President, I would like to That insight is valuable, but it is not very valuable if you do not at the same time understand where the roof is. If I understood Ulf Kristersson correctly, he said that he thinks we are in good shape today. Last year, we granted more residence permits than ever before with the exception of a single year. It is a myth that Sweden has closed the borders. It is a myth that we have now taken responsibility and so on. It's just a chimare. It's not like that. Immigration continues at an unabated pace. With Ulf Kristersson's refugee ceiling we will get about 30 000 asylum seekers to Sweden per year plus as many relatives. In ten years, Ulf Kristersson, there will be more than half a million people. Where are they going to live? What jobs are they going to have? What schools are they going to? What hospitals are they supposed to be in when they get sick? You must be able to answer that if you at the same time claim that you intend to take responsibility for immigration policy.
i-806351f203f86114-228	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I have made any secret of the fact that I want Sweden to have a tight migration policy to cope with integration. That is absolutely necessary. We must ensure that people who come here come to work and support themselves. That means we can't make old mistakes again. This does not mean that Sweden should be a closed country. It's not supposed to be a closed country. It would have devastating consequences for everything else that we think is important in Sweden. You have to be able to come to Sweden and contribute, work and do good. We have learned the hard way that an ill-considered migration policy creates major problems in a country. I think that lesson has come to light. We will not help Sweden return to a migration policy that creates those problems. Nor will we contribute to Sweden joining within its borders and turning its back on the rest of the world.
i-806351f203f86114-231	Mr President, I would like to Right now, mankind is facing its greatest challenge. We read about it in the news daily – it's hurricanes, it's rain, it's drought and it's flooding as a result of a warmer climate. Ulf Kristersson has since his admission described himself as an adult politician who puts the issues first, and I welcome that. But it is disappointing that Ulf Kristersson has not made a single proposal in the field of climate change since his election. The Moderates say no to increased CO2 taxes, no to air taxes, no to truck taxes, no to environmental zones, no to high-speed trains, no to climate investments, no to forest protection, no to ocean investments. You say no to everything! I would like to ask you, Ulf Kristersson: Do the Moderates have any political proposals to meet the climate issue? In that case, I'd like you to tell me about them here.
i-806351f203f86114-234	Mr President, I would like to First of all, may I just take up the initial reflections of the Deputy Prime Minister – that it is a problem that we in this House are discussing the problems that people are worried about. I do not share that view. I find it disrespectful to voters not to face voters seriously where they are – especially if you want to tell them that you have proposals that could solve the problems and, above all, if you do not agree with everything that is experienced in reality. If we do not meet Swedish voters where they are and discuss the problems that are apparent in our time, no voters will listen to all the other things we should also be discussing in this House – all that is important in the 10, 20 and 30 years' time. That's where I think you'll get lost. In addition, I believe that you systematically carry out double accounting. The Green Party is not the government; the Green Party is part of the government. In the long run, you cannot take a different view from the Social Democrats in the government. As far as environmental policy is concerned, we have made several proposals, but they always focus on the fact that technology and the market economy are the basis of sound environmental policies.
i-806351f203f86114-238	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson, you are a prime minister candidate, and we are now moving towards perhaps the most important choices in history, where we are faced with very big questions of fate. Then it is interesting for the voters to know that you want to cut one in four heads of the environmental and climate budget. You want to cut back on aid, too. You cut the funding for the Environmental Protection Agency, as much as Donald Trump does for the American Environmental Protection Agency. You want to reduce petrol tax and stop air tax, and you want to reduce taxes in general to give to those who earn the most. Can't you, who now stands here as a candidate to lead this country, tell us what policy you have to face humanity's greatest challenge? And to meet your comments just now, I think it is important that parties in good time before the elections tell us where we stand, whether we are in a coalition government or not. You should know that.
i-806351f203f86114-240	Mr President, I would like to Each debate has some focus. I chose this time to address matters that I think are urgent at the moment. What's the gang crime look like? How do we view migration and integration? How do we see the Swedish language? I admit that not everything fits into every debate; I understand that. With regard to environmental policy, however, we have repeatedly been very clear that we want the same demands for successful, effective policies there as in other areas. Then it is not good enough to invest all the money in Sweden and very little money in those countries where investments in the climate do the most good. It is not good enough to suggest to people who have invested in fairly new diesel cars that they should change their cars at once. You have to be systematic and effective. I share the criticism that the Council of Finance Ministers and others have made: if we waste money on ineffective climate policy, we are wasting the opportunity to do really great good.
i-806351f203f86114-243	Mr President, I would like to Many wonder what it would be like if the accident were there and you became Prime Minister, Ulf Kristersson. But you can go on a study visit to Stockholm County Council. There is even a house you can look at, New Karolinska is called it. There your policy is fully practiced. It's probably the most expensive hospital in the world. It's a gold mine for British venture capital companies and a really profitable deal for the Boston Consulting Group. There it goes around consultants who earn 700,000 kroner a month, and no one really knows what they are doing. What is known is that the cost of construction has risen from 14 billion to 25 billion and that the cost of operation is breathtaking 60 billion in total. It is known that the bathrooms are misbuilt, that it costs 1 million to get a new door and 143,000 crowns to move a crane. Are you proud, Ulf Kristersson?
i-806351f203f86114-246	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jonas Sjöstedt has already committed the loss of election, and that is probably for good reason. For the government in which you are not allowed to sit will not survive the election day. So that's good. However, I find it a little strange that you are so involved in building a house in Solna, instead of discussing the really big health problems we have. You spend more energy discussing a construction project in Solna than discussing care queues. You are putting more effort into this issue than on the long-term challenge facing Swedish healthcare in a context of older people and more medical technology – all the problematic and amazing things that we have ahead of us. For me, it is enough to read today's Svenska Dagbladet to see that the county council in Stockholm is working hard to make sure that what has gone wrong in the building in Solna is corrected. That is an obvious task for them.
i-806351f203f86114-249	Mr President, I would like to What pleases Ulf Kristersson is that the bill may be only SEK 60 billion. Ulf Kristersson, this is the world's most expensive hospital. This is a complete scandal. You're out of control. You don't care about taxpayers' money. They run off to various private companies. I would like to quote Henrik Schyffert. He has called the NKS the Alliance's own Versailles. That's what you're building out there in Solna, isn't it? It's not that it can handle the queues better either. What happened at New Karolinska? Well, the person in charge of the operation denied the cancer queues before the county council, who was prepared to help. Newspapers report people who died while in the queue because they denied queues. At the same time, the money ran off to the Boston Consulting Group. And what do you say? You lift up the person responsible, Irene Svenonius, and make her part of your party leadership so that you can make better contact with reality. No, no election losses have been made in advance. The Swedish people do not want this policy.
i-806351f203f86114-253	Mr President, I would like to I'm not really going to give a shit about those nasties. I note that the decision on the construction of a new hospital in Stockholm was taken with very broad political agreement, from right to left. There has been no doubt about it. If there have then been bad procurements, they should of course be corrected. This has been happening for a very long time, and I am convinced that Stockholm County Council takes it very seriously. In addition, it is pointed out in the newspaper on a daily basis what errors need to be corrected. That is exactly what I perceive they are doing. But this cannot obscure the fact that we have real political issues to discuss when it comes to Swedish healthcare. Why do I never hear the Left Party mention that there is a problem with long medical queues and that it would be a problem if all private practitioners and health centres had to close down because you have forced the government to engage in the Reepalu investigation? These are the real health policy issues.
i-806351f203f86114-256	Mr President, I would like to In the opening speeches, security has been one of perhaps the most dominant issues. It is not surprising given the situation in our country. Stefan Löfven came earlier with an election promise: He will do what is necessary for Sweden to be safe. I think Stefan Löfven can start by dismissing the chief of police, and then he can resign himself; that's the best thing.
i-806351f203f86114-258	Ulf Kristersson rightly describes something very dramatic that is happening in Sweden. He says it's like there's a war in Sweden. Yes, it is – a war against Swedish society, Swedish authorities and what has built this society. Unfortunately, this is a war that we are about to lose right now. We're about to lose control. Ulf Kristersson compared this to some kind of dystopic film and said it is not. But I am prepared to say that it could be. It could be the script of the reality-based drama thriller Sossesverige after Reinfeldt from the ashes in the fire. Ulf Kristersson says that he does not intend to contribute to the repetition of old mistakes. That's a good promise, Ulf Kristersson. But I do not think that Ulf Kristersson or his friends in the bourgeois alliance have understood what the mistakes were. When you say that you should not repeat the mistakes, you still describe, in your own proposals, precisely the mistakes made by previous bourgeois and red governments in this country. So, what if? Do not make the same mistakes that previous governments have made!
i-806351f203f86114-262	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jimmie Åkesson is also very devastated when it comes to the fight against crime. Kristersson said last night that the serious crime and the rape problem are here to stay. Åkesson says we've lost this. You can't handle this kind of problem. You have to decide that this will be dealt with, and then you do something about it: set aside resources and strengthen the police. Jimmie Åkesson is also critical of pensioner tax. However, when it was possible to actually roll it back, you voted against a reduction in the pensioner's tax because you preferred to vote on the Alliance's budget. Last autumn, you voted in favour of the Moderates' proposal to remove the lower time limit in health insurance, the so-called "fallstock". We had a precipice between 2010 and 2014; that was when Kristersson was responsible for that insurance. At that time, sickness rates increased by 50 per cent, while at the same time 100 000 people were insured. This is what Jimmie Åkesson thinks is a good policy. You're betraying these people. You're betraying the elderly, the pensioners and the sick. Why is such right-wing politics so good?
i-806351f203f86114-266	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm just going to wait for the Prime Minister to accuse me of the Black Death, too. Stefan Löfven, in our budget we have every year since we entered the Riksdag proposed a greater tax cut for pensioners than the Social Democrats have done. Why has Stefan Löfven not voted in favour of it, if he now wants to do so well for pensioners? It's very strange. When it comes to health insurance, Stefan Löfven must understand that you cannot make such simple points. The major problem today is not whether or not we have a longer time limit in health insurance. The big problem is that people fall between the chairs. People fall between the chairs, and we believe that we must tackle this structurally by merging the authorities responsible for dealing with this, so that it is not the case that one authority makes an assessment and the other authority does another, and so people fall between the chairs. This is our long-term solution to this problem.
i-806351f203f86114-269	Mr President, I would like to It won't help if Jimmie Åkesson looks at how the authorities work. Of course, it may be good to do so, but it will not help if hundreds of thousands are secured at the same time. It's them you're about to address. What is good about a precipice where people are sent out just because a certain number of days have passed, whether they are healthy or not? This is what you should answer to the sick. You must also give an answer to pensioners as to why you chose not to vote for a reduced pensioner's tax in the final vote in autumn 2014. No matter what budgets you put in, it was this choice you made back then. Like all populist parties, the Swedish Democrats naturally want to paint that they want to give everything good to everyone. But if you were serious, that would also have been seen in politics. Then you would have taken a stand for the pensioners. Then you would have taken a stand for welfare. Then you would also have taken a stand for sick people to return to work and for them to do so with reasonable financial security. But you choose not to do this. The Swedish Democrats are a right-wing party.
i-806351f203f86114-272	Mr President, I would like to I got out of the Black Death this time, too. Seriously, Stefan Löfven, I don't know how many times we've had this up now. You haven't even read our draft budget! You haven't tried to do that, but it's possible that you've had some co-worker who told you: Say this and this, and say that SD is a right-wing party, because it's going home with our constituents. But you have no idea what you're talking about. All this that you describe – that the elderly should be better off – we propose in our budget. We have done so every year in this congregation. Stefan Löfven is standing here accusing us of making major tax cuts. What is wrong with making major tax cuts for pensioners? What is wrong with making major tax cuts for those who earn the least? What is wrong with making major tax cuts for small and medium-sized enterprises? I see no fault in it, for that is what creates prosperity and prosperity. Why is that so wrong, Stefan Löfven?
i-806351f203f86114-276	Mr President, I would like to After People and Defence in Sälen, it is clear that the government is divided in its view of the Swedish Defence Committee's latest report. But the two parties that most clearly call for genuine freedom of alliance are the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party. The rest of us conclude that it is in union with others, with countries we like, that we build security. The Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party and, one is tempted to say, Margot Wallström, are also most strongly in favour of the Nuclear Weapons Convention. I wonder how Jimmie Åkesson views that question. Perhaps I do not think so much about the company he is in as about the fact that a large number of assessors warn that a Swedish ratification would risk damaging our relations with exactly the countries with which we are working today in the field of security policy.
i-806351f203f86114-278	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister, who is a social democrat, stood here and wanted to send me as far to the right as possible. Now the right-wing leader is standing here and wants to send me as far to the left as possible. Politics is amazing sometimes, isn't it? I have a statement on the nuclear issue. I do not know everything that has been said in various interviews in newspapers, but we have not taken a stand definitively. We have not taken a stand for the simple reason that there is no clear yes or no here. Like Ulf Kristersson, we understand that this is a difficult and complex issue. We will get back to you when this is to be dealt with. Alliance freedom has served us well for a long time. I believe it will continue to do so in the future.
i-806351f203f86114-281	Mr President, I would like to I think this is genuinely important. I don't care much if the Swedish Democrats call themselves right or left. I think you can sort that out yourself, and I'm not so interested in the labels either. On the other hand, I think it is interesting to know how a party views the outside world, what friends it thinks have in the outside world and where it is in view of the different conflicts of ideas that exist between the tradition of liberal open democracy and the more authoritarian currents that exist in many parts of the world. We see it very closely in Europe, and we see it absolutely in Asia and, in part, in the USA as well. This is not unimportant, I think. This may not determine every position in each tax table, but it can certainly determine how one wants Sweden to develop in the long term. Who else can and should we work with at home and internationally? I'd love to know. What do the Swedish Democrats see as a Swedish role in the rather troubled world we are seeing around us right now?
i-806351f203f86114-285	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish bourgeoisie has in fact since the elections or soon thereafter agreed that Sweden should abandon the freedom of alliance and seek membership of NATO. Now it is obvious, and it is seen as the only way for Sweden to secure security and the only way for Sweden to cooperate to create security in our part of the world. I do not share that view. Sweden has been working well with NATO for quite some time now. I think we should continue to have that. Sweden has not least good cooperation with the other Nordic countries in the area of security and defence policy. We will continue to develop that. I think it's important. I also think it is important that we understand where in the world we are. It is important that Sweden understands that we are in the middle of two superpowers, just as we have done at all times. In this respect, Sweden must strengthen its own ability and its cooperation with other countries that are our friends.
i-806351f203f86114-287	Mr President, I would like to Everyone knows that none of the traditional political blocs are expected to gain their own majority in the parliamentary elections this autumn, and not for the foreseeable future either. The environmental party's response is clear: We are prepared to cooperate across the traditional bloc boundaries, and we are keen that Sweden is governed by a strong government that does not lean against the Swedish Democrats, which is a party with Nazi roots. If you listen to the alliance parties, it sounds a little different. Ulf Kristersson has repeatedly said that he is prepared to pursue his policy into the tile. He seems prepared to settle and take power even if the alliance parties are given fewer mandates than the red-green parties. My question to you, Jimmie Åkesson, is: Would you, without making any demands, support an alliance government where Annie Lööf also sits, or what requirements do you make to support such a minority government that leans against the Swedish Democrats?
i-806351f203f86114-291	Mr President, I would like to That's a pretty big question. I do not intend to support anyone – not any government and no one else – who is not interested in listening to me or who is in no way interested in meeting all the voters I have received in the elections. That's pretty obvious. I think the same applies to the Green Party and other parties in this House. Certainly, the Green Party has received some criticism since they took up government positions and basically betrayed all their electoral promises. I do not intend to repeat that mistake in any situation.
i-806351f203f86114-293	Mr President, I would like to That was a clear message. Jimmie Åkesson will not support someone who does not listen, and he will not fail his election promises. It is interesting to see that you have much in common with the alliance parties. You support their budgets and you also want to see tax cuts. With reduced marginal taxes and a developed job tax deduction, your budget, together with the Alliance, would mean that a staffat doctor who earns over 100,000 a month would get more money left at the end of the month, and a nurse who is single and has two children would get less in her pay envelope at the end of the month. You clearly have something in common there. Will it be superior to pursue economic policy when you will have to decide on which prime minister candidate you want to release? Or is it the migration issue that is the most important to you? I think it is important for the voters to have a clear answer on this issue here and now.
i-806351f203f86114-296	Mr President, I would like to Political issues are not isolated from each other. It is clear that migration policy, for example, is linked to economic policy and that economic policy provides the conditions for developing welfare and so on. So it is not easy to give an answer to that question. However, I can give some comments on Isabella Lövin's description. Isabella Lövin can take part of the distribution policy profile in our policy and in our draft budget – I can send it to her if she is interested. It shows that those who benefit from our policies are the ones who earn the least. They are women in the public sector, and they are pensioners. They are the ones who benefit from our policy. You're standing here making up a lot of other stuff. It is regrettable that we cannot stick to the truth. I think it's boring. The political debate is now entering an election year. We have less than eight months left for the election. I think it would have been appropriate to have a little more intellectual integrity in the debate.
i-806351f203f86114-299	Mr President, I would like to That Jimmie Åkesson said some time ago that the Center Party was the main counter-pol of the Swedish Democrats made me proud. I agree with him. Our view of people, not least of people from other countries, differs considerably from that of the Swedish Democrats. There is a common thread through the policy of the Swedish Democrats. It is about how much they emphasize national specificity and cultural and religious identity and how important they think it is to divide and separate people. A person forced to go to another part of the world disturbs their pattern. This determines the human rights to which people are entitled. This is evident in the Swedish Democrats' migration policy and attitude towards the right to seek asylum. The only time Jimmie Åkesson can show humanity and solidarity is when there is war in the immediate area, that is war in Denmark. Then Danes, puddles and Tuborg can walk across the border. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is therefore: Why does Jimmie Åkesson think it is negative that a society within itself contains a variety of national cultures?
i-806351f203f86114-303	Mr President, I would like to Look at what Sweden looks like today! There's the answer. There's something you can do about this. It is worth noting that we have a greater responsibility to help countries in our neighbourhood and the like. But it's a fact that it is, no matter what Annie Lööf wants. It is possible that Annie Lööf is the exception, because Annie Lööf thinks we can bring in 30 million immigrants in Sweden – that's about half of the world's refugees. It's possible you can do this. But it's about helping people who are in need and people who are on the run– it's 65 million people who are on the run around the world. To be honest, it is not the humane thing to let them come to Sweden and end up in segregated suburbs in our larger cities, medium-sized cities and now also smaller cities. That's not the human thing. What is humanitarian is that we are directing aid to the areas where these people are. You have refused to realize this during your time in government, and you continue to refuse to realize it. I believe that this is the humane and effective refugee policy.
i-806351f203f86114-306	Mr President, I would like to My question was precisely about multiculturalism and not only allowing Danish, Norwegian and Finnish cultures in Sweden. It is also about seeing the outside world and that Sweden is part of a larger world. The quote in my question came directly from the Swedish Democrats' principle programme, and it really describes how the Swedish Democrats view people. The Center Party is not at all for 30 million immigrants, as I see the trolls online and the Swedish Democrats say. We are in favour of regulated immigration. We have been involved in concluding the only migration policy agreement that exists in Sweden, because we are prepared to take responsibility at a difficult time. But I would like to return to the main issue. You want to divide people. You want to separate nationalities. There are even Swedish democrats – Vice-President – who do not think that Sami can be counted among Swedes. What is the problem with people of different cultural backgrounds and expressions living in the same country?
i-806351f203f86114-310	Mr President, I would like to It does not have to be a problem in general, but it will be a problem on the basis of the fact that whole communities cannot be integrated. Sweden has always had immigration. As long as Sweden has existed and even before that there have been people from other countries, from other parts of the world. It's worked pretty well. It worked pretty well until sometime in the 70's. But then we abandoned the idea that people who come here will take the custom where they come, that they will adapt, take on our values, learn how our society works, try to view themselves as Swedes and raise their children as Swedes. We abandoned this. What did it give? Yes, it gave the divided and segregated society that many speakers today have described from the pulpit. I don't want that community. I want a cohesive Sweden where people feel at home. This is not achieved by the split policy of Annie Lööf and the Center Party.
i-806351f203f86114-313	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to you, Jimmie Åkesson, it strikes me what a full-fledged professional politician you are. You have the ability to master one of the less noble arts of politics: to talk for a long time without answering a straight question that you have received. You're a bit of a master in it. Just now Prime Minister Löfven asked about the far parentheses, about the stock in health insurance. It's serious. It's about people who can have cancer. It's about people who have concerns about how their families are going. We know that health insurance has its shortcomings today. You want to send sick people out of health insurance at a certain date. When you get asked, you talk about something else and about a bureaucratic reform. But the sick deserve an answer, Jimmie Åkesson. Why are you sending them out in the cold?
i-806351f203f86114-315	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it's unique for someone with a mission as a politician to be able to talk for a long time without answering questions. My view is that that is what you are all doing for the most part. If Jonas Sjöstedt thinks I do, it's up to him. But I'll answer the question. I tried to do it earlier, too, but maybe it didn't show up. The problem is not that we have a longer time limit in health insurance. The problem is something else. Stefan Löfven mentioned this earlier in his speech. Anyone who can work will work. That must be the starting point. The solution, then, is not to make people, which is a development we have now seen, go into a lifelong period of illness and long-term illness increases. The solution is to ensure that the people who make up the extreme cases described by Jonas Sjöstedt do not fall between the chairs. I have a solution to this, but the solution is not to remove the longer time limit in health insurance.
i-806351f203f86114-317	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was also a non-answer, you have to say. The problem is: Although it is a better rehabilitation, a better working environment and better cooperation between authorities – it's something we're in favour of – there will be people who are sick. They'll be sick that day, that date. What happens to them? Shouldn't they get their sickness benefit anymore? Is it to be withdrawn? You have actually sat in this House, pressed the button and told thousands of Swedes who may not yet know that they will one day be long-term ill: we will not have health insurance for you. I think you're all these people guilty of the answer. Why should they be thrown out in the cold?
i-806351f203f86114-320	Mr President, I would like to No people should be thrown out into the cold. This should not happen at all. That is not what this discussion is really about either. I understand that the Swedish left wants it to be about people who are seriously ill and the like. Of course, if you are seriously ill, if you are terminally ill, you should not have to work. That goes without saying. That is why it is unreasonable as it is today. We have two authorities that make different assessments. The Social Insurance Agency says: Yes, but you can work. And the Arbetsförmedlingen says: No, you can't. You're not going to work. There's no job for you here. Then you end up between these two authorities. We want to avoid this by merging these authorities. It is a structural, long-term solution to the problem described by Jonas Sjöstedt. Removing the lower time limit in health insurance and allowing people to disappear wind by wave in endless bureaucracy is not humane and not healthy welfare policy.
i-806351f203f86114-324	Mr President, I would like to Let me continue the dialogue that Ulf Kristersson and Jimmie Åkesson had. It was a very surprising message that came from the Swedish Democrats' Defence Policy spokesperson and now from Jimmie Åkesson. You are considering supporting the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. This is something that is currently being run in Sweden by Margot Wallström, the Left Party and the Green Party. The only one who would be really happy if Sweden joined this convention is Putin, because in practice it would greatly impede cooperation between Sweden and NATO. I know that Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats are against NATO membership, but even if you are against membership, you can still appreciate the cooperation we have with NATO, for example through the host country agreement. However, this is seriously jeopardised by this Convention. NATO has also said so, so most of the Western world does not sign the Convention for this reason. Are you prepared to compromise the host country agreement?
i-806351f203f86114-329	Madam President, I would like I agree in principle with Jan Björklund's description of the seriousness of this. I also tried to point out that our party has not taken a stand. It is possible that someone in the committee has said something in the newspapers. I do not know what has been said in the interview, nor have I read what was the result of the interview. But for me it is not very interesting, because the party has not taken a stand. The question has not been on my table or on the table of the party leadership for the very reason that I understand exactly what Jan Björklund describes. I understand the complexity of security policy in this and that this is very complicated. There is no one in this House who wants nuclear weapons. We must therefore look beyond this discussion and try to understand how complicated this is. But do not accuse us of going to Putin's case on this issue, because that is not true.
i-806351f203f86114-334	Madam President, I would like The reason you get these questions is because you are the tongue of the wave. If you join this, Sweden is likely to ratify the agreement, and if you say no, it will not be so. That is why your position is extremely important. You say you understand my arguments, Jimmie Åkesson, but yet you are considering joining. It doesn't make any sense. I see that there are other Swedish democrats sitting here shaking their heads at you considering this. As a result, cooperation with NATO is virtually impossible. It's obvious. How you can even consider this is therefore difficult to understand. The background is exactly what Ulf Kristersson was talking about: Parties of your character throughout Europe often stand on Putin's side in conflicts between the West and Putin. I guess it's an admiration of authoritarian rule.
i-806351f203f86114-338	Madam President, I would like On the one hand, Jan Björklund says that it is a serious and complex issue and that you have to make considered decisions. On the other hand, he says that I am wrong when I want to take this seriously and make a considered decision. I can't get it together. We're not considering anything. I just said that this question has not been on my table at all. When it eventually comes to my table, I promise that you, Jan Björklund, and everyone else will be told how we stand up to this. To treat such an issue as something where you can suddenly take a stand without considering the decision you intend to take is not serious. Apparently Jan Björklund does not think so either. Then let those of us who are heavy on the scales in Parliament take the time we need to make a balanced decision.
i-806351f203f86114-341	Madam President, I would like It is good that more parties say that care is a priority, because care is important and the development is going in the wrong direction. For example, care queues have become twice as long. But what do the Swedish Democrats do for health care in their budget? Very little. You spend small amounts on small projects. It is unrealistic that the queues disappear with your politics, Jimmie Åkesson. You propose a bureaucratic model for sending patients around, especially abroad. But even you, Jimmie Åkesson, can't believe it's enough for all the 84 000 who are currently in a care queue to receive care on time?
i-806351f203f86114-344	Madam President, I would like I think the care queues are longer than that. I do not have the figures in front of me, but I think the situation is far more serious than Andreas Carlson describes. Yes, things have become much worse in recent years. But even during the time when the Christian Democrats were responsible for these issues, the care queues began to grow. It is possible that the Christian Democrats are pleased that other parties take care seriously, but this is largely due to the fact that the Christian Democrats and other parties have failed completely because they have not understood the magnitude of the problems. We're making big bets. What Andreas Carlson calls a bureaucratic fine, or whatever he said, is a model that works in other countries. Look at how Denmark managed to shorten the care queues. It is just such a model, of course adapted to Swedish conditions, as we propose. It is not bureaucratic nonsense; it is for real. It has succeeded in Denmark, and it can succeed here.
i-806351f203f86114-347	Madam President, I would like The 84 000 are those who have waited more than three months, i.e. more than the health guarantee requirements for a first visit or treatment. What you are proposing is a short-term solution. It is a panic attack that will create a negative spiral. Resources that should go to Swedish hospitals will end up abroad as a result of more patients not receiving treatment on time and having to be sent away. The costs will increase and Swedish healthcare will continue to deteriorate. We need reforms that work, structural reforms and changing ways of working. That is the Christian Democrats' answer. We want primary government responsibility for health care. In our budget, we invest SEK 2 billion in more care places in Swedish healthcare. We want to reinstate the queue billions and invest 3 billion in health care centres so that fewer people need to sit in the emergency room. We want to see the care services team so that nurses have more time with the patients. That's a real health policy, Jimmie Åkesson. Your efforts will be consumed by bureaucracy, and our responsibility is to build up Swedish healthcare.
i-806351f203f86114-351	Madam President, I would like The policies of the Christian Democrats in the field of health did not work, but led to growing care queues. I just want it said so that we know where we stand. Has Andreas Carlson looked at the situation at all with the capacity of hospitals around the country? Has Andreas Carlson understood the problem that there is no proper coordination regarding hospital care in Sweden today? I don't think so, because then he wouldn't have argued in this way. An absolutely crucial solution is that we coordinate this better so that we use the capacity available, primarily in Sweden. But it's also about when there's no room in Sweden finding space elsewhere to graze off this mountain that's just growing. If we do not get rid of the huge care queues, we will never be able to solve this either structurally or in the long term. Therefore, it is important to first graze the queues and then make bets.
i-806351f203f86114-354	Madam President, I would like On a sustainable planet, we live sustainable lives. Today, unfortunately, we see depression, mental illness, stress - related diseases and burnout increasing rapidly. More and more people feel that they are not enough at work, at home, in their relationships or for themselves. This is a problem that we must take very seriously. I am therefore pleased that the government is spending 600 million on mental health only this year. I am also pleased that the Government is investigating proposals that can enable a more sustainable working life for people. At a time when we are working more and more years, there must be a chance for reflection and development over a long working life. This could be a development or alternation year. With financial security, you should have the opportunity to change your career, realize a business idea, start your own business or further educate yourself. It may be a matter of going down in working hours in order to start a side business. I am convinced that proposals that enable people to try new and develop create greater freedom, flexibility and a more innovative society where confidence in the future can grow. My vision and that of the Green Party is a future where people have a place and can flourish without destroying the planet for future generations.
i-806351f203f86114-358	Madam President, I would like What will take us towards a greener future are our companies. Small businesses are taking risks to succeed in eco-innovation, the company is putting research resources on a new car battery and the housing company is investing in energy efficiency that makes green development happen. Entrepreneurs have a key role to play in reducing our climate emissions, and we politicians can never put their fingers on them in terms of creativity and inventiveness. But for them to be able to work and do their job, it is necessary to reduce the regulatory burden and reduce costs, so that it becomes easier and cheaper for companies to start and grow in Sweden. We started that work together with our alliance colleagues in government, but that work has now stopped. Taxes on companies have been increased by EUR 32 billion annually – taxes that also affect green companies.
i-806351f203f86114-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annie Lööf, for the question! Yes, it is true that businesses, the business community, have a crucial role to play, both in order to have a better society with more faith in the future and in order to cope with the green transition. I really want to remind Annie Lööf that this government has introduced growth support for one-man entrepreneurs. Those who have an individual firm, partnership or limited liability company do not currently have to pay the full employer's contribution for their first employee. It is concrete support for small businesses, which we have been involved in pushing through. For the larger companies that want to be involved in the climate transition, support is needed in terms of incentives but also clear legislation, so that the objectives are known. Here the government introduces the major climate support for industry, Industrikliv, which enables companies such as steel mills to switch and make technological leaps so that they can be part of the green transition. This is crucial for the success of climate change.
i-806351f203f86114-365	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin is now presenting millions of investments when you take billions from the Swedish companies, including the green companies. Growth support is being provided, but increased tax increases are being taken back EUR 32 billion each year during this term of office. This is anything but an example that promotes entrepreneurship, green technology and innovation, which was actually what my question was about. Isabella Lövin has had time to introduce a solar tax, which has almost been withdrawn, but only almost, and this only after severe criticism from the companies, trade associations and the Center Party. Instead, one needs to pursue an offensive, thought-out overall policy for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. When will the Green Party release ineffective symbol politics and focus on a policy that in general strengthens entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and improves their ability to really invest in green technology and climate-smart solutions?
i-806351f203f86114-368	Madam President, I would like First of all, I note that Annie Lööf did not repeat the false information she stated at the beginning, that emissions are increasing in Sweden. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's latest validated report from 2016 shows that emissions are actually decreasing. It would be appropriate for Annie Lööf to include it in her rhetoric. We are investing in the companies, as I have just mentioned, with growth support, the Industriklivet and a variety of other initiatives to get the innovation power going in Sweden, which will benefit the green transition. The Solel tax was something you failed to arrange during your years in government, Annie Lööf. We must also adhere to EU rules, and Annie Lööf knows as well as I do. But solar electricity is flourishing today in Sweden. It has grown to 18 times, and it's something I'm proud of. We have certainly made it possible for the solar industry to flourish and start new businesses.
i-806351f203f86114-371	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin, you spoke in your speech about mental illness and depression, which is a public disease in Sweden today. Many go into the wall, as you call it, and get sick leave for a long time. There we are doing some things together, not least on the initiative of the Left Party, in the budget. But what surprises me is the hardness that then meets many of those who suffer when they are on sick leave and need sickness benefit. You have set a target of 9.0 days of sick leave per year and put pressure on Försäkringskassan to save sickness benefit, and that affects many of these very people. We now hear desperate testimony from those who are actually sick. The doctors say they're sick, but they're losing their sickness allowance. I think this is completely unreasonable. It does not make it easier to get well either. What are you going to do about this?
i-806351f203f86114-373	Madam President, I would like These are really worrying figures that we are looking at the evolution of sick leave. Mental illness, burnout, depression and other similar diagnoses account for the majority of sick leave, which has increased by 80 per cent since 2010. Society must respond to this. It's a public illness and a sign that something's wrong in society. There we need to work with many parts, both strengthening psychiatric care and increasing access to psychologists. But we must also look at the possibility for people to develop during their working lives, so that they do not burn themselves out at their workplace. We must also ensure that there are better working conditions so that, for example, nurses and teachers, who have very responsible tasks, do not see themselves forced to register for sick leave because of the working environment.
i-806351f203f86114-374	Madam President, I would like I broadly agree with every word you say, Isabella Lövin. But what surprises me is that at the same time you put this pressure on the Social Insurance Agency to save. It's just happening to these people. Many of those who have this problem lose their sickness benefit. Many have the support of their doctors who say that you cannot work. Many people testify that you cannot cope, that you need a little more time and a little better rehabilitation to come back. You're responsible. You're Deputy Prime Minister. It is you who write the regulations to Försäkringskassan. It is the government that has put this pressure on savings. It risks making life difficult for many of those who need support to come back. I don't understand. Are you in favour of this policy, or are you going to change it?
i-806351f203f86114-377	Madam President, I would like It is important that we pay attention to this. The government is also putting pressure on employers. Now we did not get through the so-called health change, which would put much more pressure on employers to take responsibility for the work environment so that people do not go into the wall. This is a huge social problem. It's a waste of resources. We train nurses, teachers and police officers who then sign up for sick leave because they feel bad and cannot cope with working conditions. We have to work with all the parts. With health insurance, we can draw attention to these problems, because this is not sustainable. Nor is it desirable for the individual to be on sick leave indefinitely. You want to get back into work. We are discussing with and putting pressure on employers, but we must also find other reforms to make working life more sustainable.
i-806351f203f86114-382	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin said in a comment earlier here that the Alliance wants to reduce marginal taxes and that the rich profit from it. I do not know if the whole Alliance really wants to, but I would like to reduce marginal taxes. I'm wondering about the definition of rich. I share the view that the person who earns a lot should pay more in tax than the one who earns a little – of course that should be the case. If you count more and more people in Sweden as rich every year, the state can of course increase its tax revenues. You count a very large part of Sweden's specialist nurses as rich. A very large part of the pre-school managers, the managers and others in the care of the elderly, as well as the first teachers and upper-secondary teachers are counted as rich in your Sweden, so that you can charge higher taxes. State income tax is paid by a very large group in Sweden. In fact, 60% of Sweden's midwives pay government income tax – you count them as rich. Is this reasonable? Are 60 percent of Sweden's midwives rich?
i-806351f203f86114-387	Madam President, I would like It is a major social problem that income gaps are increasing, both within countries and between countries. This creates a major threat to our society. It feeds populist forces. No one benefits from the fact that those who are extremely rich become even richer. I would like to point out that this government lowers taxes on pensioners and removes the gap that you created. It is also interesting to note that you, Jan Björklund, are raising the issue of taxes, because it is very important when it comes to the difference in how we view society. You, Jan Björklund, would like to talk about greater needs in school, in health care, in the police, in defence – in all areas of society. But you have no answer as to how we will finance all these increased needs. What is the answer to that, Jan Björklund? I really don't know. We must have an equal society if it is to be a hopeful society.
i-806351f203f86114-391	Madam President, I would like If there is to be any sense in these lines, try to answer the questions asked. My question was whether 60% of Sweden's midwives are rich. Isabella Lövin started talking about people who are millionaires paying more taxes. I agree that they should pay more taxes. The problem with your policy is that you have reduced the threshold for those who count as rich so much that very many people who work in women-dominated academic professions now count as rich. I agree. I want to bet on school. Part of investing in school is that we can get teachers. As far as health care is concerned, we must be able to find specialist nurses and midwives, but then it must pay off to go to university for five years and learn to do so. If you take the bulk of your income in tax, it doesn't pay. This is not a coincidence. It is precisely within the female-dominated academic professions that we have a shortage in Sweden. One reason for this is that you are strict in taxing people who work in these professions and consider them rich, which they really are not. Training in Sweden must pay off – even for women.
i-806351f203f86114-395	Madam President, I would like Part of the explanation for the lack of nurses is that we train too few nurses. Another part is that nurses then leave the profession quite quickly, because working conditions are not good enough. This is because there are shortcomings in terms of both human resources and health care resources. We need more resources for health care – we fully agree on that. You are very good at pointing out the needs, but you are very bad at talking about how these needs are to be financed, Jan Björklund. You're magically opposed to, for example, the airline tax. You are against all kinds of environmental taxes that we put on the table. I think it's sad. Together with your alliance partners, you will raise 100 billion in tax cuts if your budgets are added up.
i-806351f203f86114-398	Madam President, I would like I read in Dagens Nyheter this morning what I perceive as Isabella Lövin claiming that we should not talk too much about crime and sexual crimes. She believes that Sweden is doing well. But Sweden sets a lot of records, and these are no records to be proud of. A record number of police officers stop, especially young police officers. A record number of crimes are committed, especially sexual offences. We also have record numbers of unsolved shootings and murders in Sweden. My brief question to Isabella Lövin is: Do you think, like me, that there is a police crisis in Sweden, or do you think that the problems are marginal and that other problems are more important?
i-806351f203f86114-401	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important to ask that question and to define exactly what is meant by the major problems. Answer yes – we have a police shortage in Sweden. We are currently training twice as many police officers as during the time of the Alliance government. But you can't conjure up the cops. There has been a delay for a long time. We must also ensure that there are good working conditions, so that the police stay in the profession and do not leave it. I think it is important that we define and tell clearly what the problems are and that we do not paint a picture of the fact that the whole of society is breaking down. It is important that we do not give up on these challenges. We can look at the shootings in Gothenburg. The number has halved over the past year thanks to effective police work together with other authorities. It shows that it is possible to cage the criminals. But we also need to improve prevention so that the young people in the suburbs, who are now being recruited into criminal gangs, are prevented from joining them.
i-806351f203f86114-405	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I still think you need to see these challenges and problems from the many young women who do not dare to go out or from the Dutch student who happened to be shot at a pizzeria in Uppsala a few days ago, after just a few days in Sweden. For them, society has broken down. We must see reality with their eyes. I believe that what fertilises populism is if the political establishment does not see the reality in which many people live and worry. Isabella Lövin says in DN there's a race for more cops. Wouldn't the Deputy Prime Minister agree with the need for more police officers? The Social Democrats have said that they want 10 000 more police workers. Here, however, it sounds like a criticism within the government from the Deputy Prime Minister. What's it gonna be? I am happy to talk about hope – the hope that this six months is the last six months with a casual red-green government.
i-806351f203f86114-410	Madam President, I would like Andreas Carlson did not listen to my reply. I said there was a need for more cops. However, it is not the case that we can conjure them up by means of budget appropriations from one year to the next, but we must train more police officers. This is sadly neglected from the time of the alliance government. Nor can we just talk about stricter penalties. Those recruited to the criminal gangs in the vulnerable areas of the suburbs are 12, 13 or 14 years old. We need to have much more work in the school and social services, with recreation centres, social educators and field assistants in the field. We must work with the families and make sure that these children and young people see that they have a different future from making careers as a career criterion. This is precisely the picture that can be seen in these suburbs at the moment. We have to work on this in many ways. It is not enough with policemen alone or more severe penalties; we must work proactively and have a humane society.
i-806351f203f86114-414	Madam President, I would like At Kalmar County Hospital, it took only four minutes in the new year before the first baby was born. In the local newspaper at home, I read that Värnamo Hospital took two days into the new year. Every hour about 13 new lives come to the world around Sweden. There are many of us who remember the feeling themselves – gratitude for the efforts of the skilled health care professional and a sense of relief that society was there when life was the most important. We also remember the anxiety about the birth. Would care work when it was most needed? The feeling is the same whether it's about the brightest moments of life or its most difficult trials. It is therefore frightening that the queues for health care are now increasing in Sweden of the Social Democrats and that there are large differences depending on where in the country you live. In Social Democratically controlled Norrbotten, for example, only 64 percent receive specialist care within the framework of the health guarantee. In S-controlled Jämtland the figure is 65 per cent. This compares with alliance-led Halland, where as much as 93% get it. This, Stefan Löfven, can't be called anything but a failure. Where is the justice in that Norrbottens and alwayss have to wait longer for care than hall ejaculates? The Center Party is therefore putting an availability billion to shorten queues. We invest in shortening the queues for child and youth psychiatry, and we spend 25 billion more than the government on general state contributions to the core of welfare. The choice will be about how we prevent the split of Sweden, how we create security throughout the country with more police and shorter care queues and how we improve integration. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs change. Sweden needs a new leadership that addresses the challenges that exist, that presents concrete solutions and that takes Sweden in a different direction.
i-806351f203f86114-422	Madam President, I would like It is important to state what you want with politics, such as health care, and that is why we are bringing much more resources. A queue billion does not suggest far if the profession thinks it is wrong and instead adds much more money. We are now investing more in Swedish healthcare than has been done in many years. The question is how to do it. Annie Lööf has been clear about two things: the Alliance should stick together, regardless of the election results, and she excludes association with the Swedish Democrats – I appreciate that. At the same time Ulf Kristersson says that he wants to form a government even though the Alliance is smaller than the red-green parties. I do not believe that all of us have correctly understood this, but these are two things that do not add up, even if they require the active support of the Swedish Democrats. We see how it goes in Gävle with two completely incompatible lines. Now it's election year, and I'd like Annie Lööf to clarify her position. Is it her or Kristersson's line that applies?
i-806351f203f86114-425	Madam President, I would like Climate emissions are growing, care queues are growing and integration is failing. This is the fourth or fifth time that Stefan Löfven is standing in a party leader debate and asking questions about the government issue. I can answer one more time: the main opponents of the Center Party in the elections are given. We go to elections to replace Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister and form an alliance government. Those who vote for the Center Party can be confident that the Swedish Democrats will not have any influence over how Sweden should be governed. If the alliance government is smaller than the red-green ones, I have said that I think the Alliance should seek support across the block line. The co-worker Stefan Löfven might be willing to support an alliance government led by Ulf Kristersson?
i-806351f203f86114-427	Madam President, I would like I have been clear throughout my party presidency and as Prime Minister, I think that block politics is dimming for Sweden. It weakens our country. Annie Lööf locks herself completely into block politics and sees only two options. It is clear that the Social Democrats and the Moderates are the main opponents of the elections. That the moderate leader and I would then vote for each other as prime minister candidate in this House, I would say, is quite unserious. This question is about seeing the alternatives that exist and where the Swedish Democrats are not given the decisive influence. Either you choose to hold on to block politics and let the Swedish Democrats rule, or you choose to break block politics.
i-806351f203f86114-430	Madam President, I would like I am not standing here cementing block politics. I have said that if an alliance government needs more support, we must seek it across the block line. Then we will have to sit down and have talks with Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats, for example, about how an alliance government can implement a policy and how we can have a safe way forward for Sweden. But in Stefan Lövven's Sweden block politics is only about the Social Democrats and he should be able to remain in power and how others should be puppets in parliament to support a Social Democratic policy. I have been in opposition and supported a number of agreements. I have negotiated, made agreements and taken responsibility. I think it would be nice to realise that the Alliance pressed a yellow button to release Stefan Löfven in 2014. Perhaps Stefan Löfven would like to press a yellow button to release Ulf Kristersson and an alliance government to prevent the Swedish democrats from gaining influence in Swedish politics? That is a question that I think Stefan Löfven should answer.
i-806351f203f86114-434	Madam President, I would like Emissions from international air travel by Swedes have increased by 77 per cent between 1990 and 2015. Swedish air travel today accounts for the same emissions as all car journeys. Yet aviation fuel has so far been completely exempt from environmental taxes. Together with much of the research, the environmental movement and the Swedish people, I have been amazed at Annie Lööf's violent opposition to the airline tax. Last summer, Annie Lööf even threatened to convict ministers about the airline tax bill being on the budget. The Centre Party's economic-political spokesperson Emil Källström has announced that the airline tax will be one of the first things that the Center Party will try to tear up if the party comes into government after the election. My question to you, Annie Lööf, is: Will the Center Party give priority to aviation – one of the worst climate villains – being able to release without paying for their emissions?
i-806351f203f86114-438	Madam President, I would like The Center Party will give priority to results. We will give priority to measures that lead to a reduction in climate emissions. We will prioritise measures that lead to reduced toxins in our everyday lives and less plastic in our seas and watercourses. We will give priority to measures to ensure that we receive more renewable energy, as we did in eight years of alliance government. For us, the results are important. We do not say no to everything the government proposes. We say yes to what we think is good and that leads somewhere. Let's say no to what's bad. Why should we and taxpayers pay for inefficiency? We have proposed that we include biofuels in aviation fuel in order to make air travel greener. We are doubtful about the model of air tax that means, for example, that the Gotlanders and those travelling to and from Gotland receive 28 million in increased costs. We believe that there are better options to make flights green and to bear their costs. That is why we have another proposal that is better for emissions and for the environment and the climate. This is what we stand for.
i-806351f203f86114-441	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Annie Lööf continues to spread misinformation. We compensate the Gotlanders for the airline tax, and Annie Lööf knows that. She also knows that we have a proposal to investigate how biofuels should enter aviation fuel. One doesn't really rule out the other. Annie Lööf continues to tell the Prime Minister that emissions are increasing, although statistics from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency show that emissions are falling, by 5.9 percent in the transport sector domestic and by 1.6 percent in total. Maybe Annie Lööf can stick a little better to the facts. When it comes to efficiency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has evaluated the government's policy. We now appear to be able to achieve the climate targets by 2020. We could not do this with the bourgeois government. It left behind a climate deficit of 4 million tonnes, which we are now picking up again with what Annie Lööf calls inefficient measures, such as Climate Change and aviation taxes.
i-806351f203f86114-444	Madam President, I would like Now these measures have not yet been implemented, and yet we are on the way to achieving environmental objectives. Be careful with the arguments, Isabella Lövin! The figures that mean that climate emissions are increasing in Sweden are based on SCB's basis. You refer to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has removed international transport. I think international transport is quite important, because there, for example, the flight comes in. I want flights to reduce their emissions and bear their costs, and that is why we have doubts about the aviation tax presented by the government. The investigator himself says that it has a minimal effect on the emissions that aviation has. That is why we have proposed a system of obligations, that is to say that all aircraft that take off from Swedish airports are forced to contain biofuels. We will ensure that this is implemented if we are given the opportunity, because it will lead somewhere. This will mean changing the flight. In addition to this, we need international agreements that make aviation really bear its costs, at European level but also at global level.
i-806351f203f86114-448	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf! Many of the unaccompanied young people who came as asylum seekers to Sweden a few years ago are getting hurt right now. A lot of people get turned down. They leave schools, they go into homelessness and they live in a kind of shadow society. The risk is that they end up in drug abuse or are caught by criminals in different ways. In this situation, it is crucial to find humane solutions that allow you to enter Swedish society. Very few can return to Afghanistan at all. The government has made suggestions. They are far from perfect, but they would go in that direction. We are prepared to negotiate with the government to resolve this, but Annie Lööf, who has talked so much about a more humane asylum policy and the situation of the unaccompanied people, is closing the door to negotiating and doing something for the young people who are now going really badly. Why is party tactics more important than what happens to these young people?
i-806351f203f86114-451	Madam President, I would like It is not about party tactics, it is about the role of the Center Party in Sweden's political society. We are not the marriage brokers of two parties in the government who cannot agree, but we are in the parliament. We await the Government's proposal, which should come shortly. When it is communicated in writing – we have so far only heard what has been said orally – we will be fingernailing and reviewing it. We want to see legal certainty proposals that improve for the unaccompanied. We think it is important not to give these children false hopes again, but that the proposals put forward in Parliament, which are hopefully also put through in Parliament, are legally secure and lead to security. I am therefore waiting for the Government's proposal, which I have heard will come shortly. When it has arrived and we have looked at what the consultation bodies have said, we will take a position on these concrete things.
i-806351f203f86114-454	Madam President, I would like Here's an emergency situation. Thousands of young people get hurt. The government is prepared to negotiate, and we are prepared to negotiate. If we negotiate, there is an opportunity to come up with something that all four parties can stand for. Then this can go through the Riksdag. If you just wait, then you can say no. Then we have said that we do not want to influence this, that we do not want to soil our hands in a negotiation and that we do not want to do anything concrete. It's a very comfortable position. But who pays the price for not being able to sit at the negotiating table? Yes, these thousands of unaccompanied youths do. I would therefore like to give you a call, Annie Lööf : Put this game aside! Sit down at the negotiating table! I'll wait for you. K over there! We can meet with the government, and we can actually do something for those young people who are getting hurt.
i-806351f203f86114-457	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt should stay too good to talk about dirty hands. The Centre Party has been involved in concluding the only agreement on migration policy that has been made during this term of office. Jonas Sjöstedt closed the door and sat outside. The Center Party has been involved in the conclusion of a defence agreement following a defence agreement. Jonas Sjöstedt has closed the door and sat outside. I know what it's about to compromise and settle. That is also why we in the Center Party have been clear that we stand up for our values. We want to see a better proposal than the one with holes and flaws that the government has presented at its press conference. We have proposed improvement measures. We also want to take account of the unaccompanied minors who have jobs and their own livelihoods, so that they also have the opportunity to stay. We want it to be more legal, so that we know what is going forward. I know and hope that the government is also literate so that this is taken on board in order to present a proposal to Parliament. When it comes, we in the Center Party will read and take a position on it to see what we should do when we sit here in Parliament and take a position on the concrete proposals. It's the government that's in charge.
i-806351f203f86114-459	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We live in a political situation that is challenging. We have a difficult parliamentary situation. In this unclear parliamentary situation, it is the cooperation between the government and the Left Party that has allowed Sweden to be governed over the past three years. It is our cooperation with the government that makes us have a state budget. It is our cooperation with the government that makes Stefan Löfven Prime Minister. With this cooperation, we have been the stability of Swedish politics. It's a difficult situation. We have delivered budgets that have made Sweden more equal and fair. We have received about eighty reforms that are marked Left Party and Ulla Andersson. It's about everything from glasses to children to interventions in psychiatry and maternity care. Much of what has a heart in politics comes from the Left Party. The Prime Minister mentioned here earlier that equality is now increasing in Sweden. You can do that through cooperation with us, but you can't do that with Annie Lööf and Jan Björklund. It's either or. If you want a more equal society, you have to have a tax system that is fairer. Priority must be given to welfare reforms before tax cuts. There's a path between left and right. In the next election, there's a lot at stake. One vote for Ulf Kristersson is a vote for Jimmie Åkesson. One vote for Jimmie Åkesson is a vote for Ulf Kristersson. This is a serious matter that has not existed in previous elections. The solution to that is not to porridge in the middle. The solution is to go to elections on a clear left-wing policy that means that there is hope for change and greater equality in Sweden. There is no contradiction between that and then, after the election results have been delivered, ensure that Sweden can be governed as it has been done now. We in the Left Party stand for this in the 2018 elections.
i-806351f203f86114-462	Madam President, I would like Ten years ago, the RUT deduction was introduced by the Center Party and the Alliance. It has since proved to be a true success story and one of the most successful job reforms. According to new statistics that came in last week, the RUT deduction has created job b to over 30,000 people. 75 per cent of jobs have gone to people who were previously unemployed. Almost a whole Vänersborg has thus been able to go from grant to job thanks to RUT. There are very many people who have thus got a foot in the labour market and can stand on their own feet. There are even more children who see their parents go to work on Monday morning. It's good for people, and it's good for society. That's actually 30,000 reasons to be in favour of the RUT deduction. My question to Jonas Sjöstedt is therefore very simple. When the Left Leader sees the result, with the result in his hand, does he not regret his stubborn resistance to the RUT deduction?
i-806351f203f86114-464	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not doing that at all-- on the contrary-- and for a number of good reasons. One is that if you look at the distribution effect and how this benefits different people, the RUT deduction is a reverse distribution policy, where large tax deductions are given to many of those who earn the most in Sweden. It is this type of deduction that makes us have a tax system that benefits high-income earners, while very few low-income earners can use that kind of deduction. You can look at a map of Sweden where this is used. It's not in the rural communities, Annie Lööf. It is in the richest suburbs of big cities that this is used. Imagine if we had used the equivalent amount – this huge billion roll – that has run out to this tax relief for mainly wealthy people to hire more in welfare, more well-educated in home care, more people working in health care, more at our preschools and schools, with safe and permanent jobs with collective wage agreements and with an opportunity to make Sweden more equal and fair. I thought it was a better option, and I think it is a better option.
i-806351f203f86114-466	Madam President, I would like It is people's jobs, pride and livelihood that Jonas Sjöstedt is ralising about. A lower tax on labour is not a subsidy. This means that people have the opportunity to afford the service – mostly parents of young children or pensioners – and that more jobs are created for those who have previously been unemployed. If, after all, Jonas Sjöstedt is not convinced by the 30 000 jobs that have been created, I can take this opportunity to mention some other figures about RUT. Nearly 900,000 people used RUT last year. The sector had a turnover of 10 billion. Four out of ten RUT entrepreneurs were born abroad. Half of those who run RUT companies are women. Jobs that have previously been black, insecure, without insurance and without pension points are now white. Why is it so important for Jonas Sjöstedt to abolish this reform, which has meant security and a salary for over 30 000 people?
i-806351f203f86114-468	Madam President, I would like There is a convergence between white and black jobs in the RUT industry. It's not as simple as Annie Lööf says. It is free for those who so desire to buy in both housekeeping and gardening and what they want. But you can't expect someone else to pay. You have to pay for it yourself. It is clear that the distribution effect of the RUT deduction is to the advantage of very well-paid workers. It has also been possible to get deductions for bizarre things such as cocktail parties or indoor swimming pool cleaning. Who's doing it? Is it nurses and preschool teachers who do it? I mean, the alternative is so much better. It is true that many elderly people need help with home cleaning. It should be easier and cheaper to get home help in order to get this help. Then it would be a distribution according to needs and not by wallet. That is where the difference is between us in politics. I want distribution as needed, you want it by wallet.
i-806351f203f86114-471	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt's role in Swedish politics is uniquely powerful. The Left Party has been around for over 100 years and has never had as much influence as now. Therefore, it is important how you use this influence. On 3 December, Jonas Sjöstedt and I were together on a manifestation at Norra bantorget to defend the assistance reform for disabled people. The background to this is that the Red-Green Government has ordered and implemented and implemented major reductions in assistance reform. Consider my surprise when Parliament would vote on the budget for the assistance reform two weeks later. At that time, Jonas Sjöstedt voted in favour of the reductions and savings proposed. He did not use his negotiating power to stop these savings. Then the simple question to Jonas Sjöstedt is: why did you stand in the square and demand a halt to the reductions when, two weeks later in this House, you voted in favour of the reductions?
i-806351f203f86114-475	Madam President, I would like I think Jan Björklund really knows the answer to the question. This is sometimes the case in politics when rhetoric goes a little too far – you ask about things you really know the answer to. The reason is very simple: The withdrawals in assistance are due to the fact that judgments have come – already during the time of the Alliance, but also now – which restrict the assistance needed to get help with things they really need help with. That's why we want to change and tighten the law. We are prepared to sit down and negotiate with you, Jan Björklund, with the Christian Democrats and with whom so wishes about how the legislative changes could take place. It has nothing to do with the budget, so to speak. The second thing that happened was reductions through the regulatory letter. In fact, there we put joint pressure on the government to ease them. So the answer to the question is that we want to solve these problems in real terms and not just with rhetoric in a parliamentary debate. This will require a change of law, because it will not be resolved through the budget allocation. Do you want to make a real effort for those who need assistance, Jan Björklund? What happens to them is a tragedy. Then talk to Ulf Kristersson! Because he's the problem. If he were in, we could sit down tomorrow and change the law.
i-806351f203f86114-478	Madam President, I would like Now it is not Ulf Kristersson who rules Sweden, Jonas Sjöstedt, but you who govern Sweden – the three red-green parties. You've decided to cut back on the assistance reform. If Jonas Sjöstedt had stood up, the government would not have been able to write this in the budget. It could not have been reduced by 1.6 billion. It is clear that legislative changes are also needed, but, of course, the government here sets out its level of ambition. You're supposed to pull down. It specifically states that you should cut by 1.6 billion. It says here that Jonas Sjöstedt has voted in favour. Jonas Sjöstedt has voted in favour of 540 fewer people receiving assistance. You have voted in favour of these reductions, Jonas Sjöstedt. Jonas Sjöstedt has stood in the square and called for a stop to the cuts, and two weeks later he has voted in favour of them. There is a word for it, and that is a hypocrisy.
i-806351f203f86114-481	Madam President, I would like You know just as I do that the reductions are due to precedents, Jan Björklund. A legislative change is needed. If you put more money in the budget without changing the law, it will not help any of those who lose their assistance. We want to do this for real. We want people to get their assistance back. We are prepared to sit down and negotiate with bourgeois parties today or tomorrow in order to do so. For us this is more than empty rhetoric; for us it is a will for real change. This is how it is, Jan Björklund: If you could convince Ulf Kristersson, we could actually do something about this. At the hand of your heart, what about the judgments that came during your time in power? Did you change anything then? Did you make any legislative changes? You know exactly as I do that you didn't.
i-806351f203f86114-483	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt says that the Left Party is at the heart of politics. If you take credit for the success of the budget negotiations, you must also take responsibility for what is not good. It says on the Left Party website that the government has been pushed in the right direction when it comes to LSS. What has gone in the right direction with LSS, Jonas Sjöstedt? We now heard from Jan Björklund that you once again put fog curtains in Parliament's Chamber and invite to talks between the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. You have already forgotten that you have been in talks with the Prime Minister – with the government – and negotiated a budget. You're responsible. It is the budget you have negotiated that leads to cuts. You could have put pressure on the government in the budget negotiations to bring about legislative changes, but you did not think it was important enough. It would be nice if the Left Party recognised its share of responsibility.
i-806351f203f86114-486	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you end up in a kind of dilemma in party leaders' debates. Imagine that someone has asked exactly the question I was going to ask, and there has been a good answer. Should I either quickly come up with a new question that is relevant, or should I pretend that the answer was never given? The Christian Democrats' choice is to pretend that they were sitting on the bench with earmuffs and heard nothing. I answered exactly the same question. I think the debate is getting worse when the answers are not taken in. What successes have we had? In fact, we put the pressure on together so that savings would not be imposed via the regulatory letter. Now the judges are the problem. We are prepared to hold negotiations at any time in order to find a majority that wants to change the legislation and remove the effect of the judges. But for the Christian Democrats it seems more important to stand in a debate and pretend that it is the budget that is at stake, while knowing that it does not solve the problems. It's not very awe-inspiring.
i-806351f203f86114-488	Madam President, I would like You can also ask a question because you don't think the answer was good enough. You can ask a question because you try to twist yourself, Jonas Sjöstedt. You're putting out fog curtains. Anyone who seems to have been wearing earmuffs is you, Jonas Sjöstedt, when you were at Harpsund– or where you are now negotiating the budget– and you negotiated when you spoke about LSS. Then you had earmuffs on, for you have agreed to this. Your party supports a budget that ruthlessly cuts into the LSS. I saw that this week you threatened budgetary cooperation with the government if the government goes forward with the right to strike. You are vetoing this issue. You didn't veto personal assistance and LSS. Why did the Left Party not fight more for personal assistance in the budget negotiations? Why haven't you done more in talks with the government to get a change of law? That's my question. I didn't get an answer to it, so I repeat it.
i-806351f203f86114-490	Madam President, I would like This is how it works in Sweden: The courts are independent, but they judge according to the laws that exist. The assistance has disappeared in a horrifying way too many assistance needs due to judgments in court. How do you change that? Well, you change the law. Does it matter what happens in a budget negotiation if you still have a court practice that prevents people from receiving assistance? No, unfortunately it does not, but it is a question of judgments that are decided in courts. It surprises me that you are trying to dupe people who are desperately in need of assistance, Andreas Carlson, and claim that it works in some other way. I think people see through it.
i-806351f203f86114-492	Madam President, I would like Stefan Löfven has now repeatedly told us how good most things are in Sweden. Sweden is a fantastic country. It is gratifying that we have a strong international boom that is lifting the whole of the Western world right now. It also raises the Swedish economy. However, the gaps are increasing between those born here and those who have come here. This is the big challenge for Sweden. Half of the new arrivals only have a job after nine years, and that is not good enough. It cannot continue like this if Sweden is to stick together. This means that people cannot make a living, that children do not have parents who go to work and that they do not come into the community. The positive is that this can be fixed. There is one solution: we must tear down the high thresholds into the labour market. Starting jobs with a lower starting salary for those with low education would create more jobs. This is why comparable countries have better integration and easier access to the labour market for low-skilled immigrants than Sweden has. But then the government and Stefan Löfven must stop going in LO's ligaments and just take care of the interests of everyone who already has a job. They're the ones outside who need to get in. Sweden should not drift apart. Sweden should stick together. This calls for a more liberal labour market.
i-806351f203f86114-496	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the new arrivals. It is important that we do the right thing and think right now. It is in this way that the new arrivals are now getting into work to a greater extent. The nine years Jan Björklund is talking about those who came here in 2008 or 2009, but both the former bourgeois government and this government have made that time shorter – just so that we have the right picture. However, this is still one of the most important tasks we have, and that is why Björklund's recent actions are quite strange. First of all, Björklund said that it is prepared to legislate on lower wages unless the parties arrange this. When the parties then do so – come up with a proposal for a start-up job – Björklund goes to the roof and says that it is not good enough either. The question is what is so important to Björklund. Is it that the parties do not know about the labour market and how it works? Or is it that Björklund thinks that, although the parties now have a good proposal, we should still legislate on lower wages? What is the problem, Mr Björklund?
i-806351f203f86114-499	Madam President, I would like Of course, the parties have knowledge. But the parties have interests other than the Riksdag, or at least I have. For us, the most important thing is that low-skilled immigrants get jobs. But LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have of course some other interests to guard. It can be seen in their solution. And that's why we're critical. For example, they exclude all employers who do not have collective agreements. 60% of small companies in Sweden have not signed collective agreements. There is no law that says that one must have collective agreements in Sweden. It is part of the Swedish model that you can choose to have it or not. But those companies should not be included in this. In addition, temporary work agencies should not be included. It is an industry that employs a great many new arrivals and has the potential to do so. The sectors in Sweden that could really contribute with start-up jobs with a little lower entry salary are excluded. This is a solution that LO has come up with to help the government. But that does not solve the problem in reality.
i-806351f203f86114-503	Madam President, I would like I know Björklund really dislikes LO. But now it is not only LO that is covered by the agreement, but it is much broader. Björklund argues that it is unfair for companies that do not want to conclude contracts to be covered by an agreement. Many, LO associations but also TCO federations, Saco federations and employers, are surprised by that. The social partners do not understand this. Jan Björklund! There is no contradiction between that and investing in extra services, as we are doing now. New arrivals gain a foothold in the labour market and can start earning a living while the partners can contribute. It's the extent of this. It's the breadth that brings in the new arrivals. Björklund chooses, however, to completely ignore the parties, LO, TCO, Saco and the employers' associations, because he thinks it is important that he can sit here and push the button and lower wages. That's not a good solution, Jan Björklund.
i-806351f203f86114-507	Madam President, I would like Too many of the low-skilled immigrants are unemployed. This creates enormous problems for Sweden. It is not just a question of these people receiving subsidies, which creates economic exclusion. It is also the basis for the whole social exclusion and segregation that we experience. Much of the crime in our exclusion areas is linked to high unemployment and major social problems. Then it is not important to solve LO's problems at all costs. It is the problems of exclusion that need to be resolved. However, forcing everyone into collective agreements seems to be more important than getting immigrants to work. 60% of companies do not have collective agreements. They're excluded. We all know that it is often small companies in the service sector that do not have those agreements. They are completely excluded. Löfven could change that. The entire structure presented by the parties requires the consent of the Riksdag. We can decide that all companies that do not have collective agreements and all temporary agencies should also be allowed to participate. Then we would approach a solution that could help. But this solution does not solve the problem.
i-806351f203f86114-511	Madam President, I would like One thing that has dominated this debate and reporting in the media in recent weeks is the spiral of violence, which Jan Björklund has also described in his speeches and replies here today. I highlighted the need to take strong action to curb and crack serious organized crime. I don't think there's anyone in this congregation who doesn't. But solutions are lacking to a large extent. The other day I read that Jan Björklund has been in Sälen and that the emergency police are to be reinstated. That is an excellent proposal. But why did you put it down just now, Jan Björklund?
i-806351f203f86114-514	Madam President, I would like A wide range of decisions were taken in the field of defence policy – the emergency police were part of the defence rather than the police – after the fall of the Berlin Wall, and only in the 2009 defence decision, which we were involved in. With the facts in hand, they were not very well thought out and wise. We have to admit that. Of course it was a mistake. Now we have to make up for this. We'll reinstate military service and rearrange the defense. It is too small an investment that is taking place; I want greater investment in the defence. The threat has changed completely. And when you reinstate duty, you can also, through civil defence duty, reinstate emergency police, which was part of the duty system. With the conclusion in hand, the great disarmament of Swedish defence was unfortunate. What's done is done. Now we have to make up for it.
i-806351f203f86114-518	Madam President, I would like It sounds very good that you can admit in this House that you were wrong. A lot of people do it these days. It is a bit sad that the other parties in this Assembly have taken a long series of decisions that have had serious consequences. This is one of those decisions. Today we have a police density that is decreasing. We would have needed the emergency police to relieve the regular police. But again, in this case, it chose the bourgeois government to close down important activities. I'm sorry about that. But I am also pleasantly surprised by the sudden self-awareness and self-criticism that sweeps through the Swedish Parliament today. I very much hope that you mean this seriously and that it is not just general talk and games for the galleries.
i-806351f203f86114-522	Madam President, I would like As far as I'm concerned, this emergency police thing is nothing I've made up since the gang shootings. We mentioned already in 2014, right after the events in Ukraine, that it was a mistake to abolish military service and that it needed to be reinstated. It has taken a few years for the majority here to share that view. But now we're there, and that's good. Jimmie Åkesson's party is new. My party's been around for a long time. It is clear that there are decisions that we have taken that need to be adjusted and amended afterwards. You should always have that humility.
i-806351f203f86114-524	Madam President, I would like We live in an uncertain world with many threats – climate change, terrorism, authoritarian movements and populism. We need a security policy and a Swedish total defence that can handle all these complex issues. However, there is a threat that is worse than the others. Nine states on earth have the power to destroy most of human civilization within 15 minutes. The only rational thing is to ban nuclear weapons, just as the international community has done with cluster bombs, land mines and biological and chemical weapons. Sweden took a very important step when, together with 121 countries, we voted in favour of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. 86% of the Swedish people support a nuclear ban. 82% of Liberal voters support a nuclear ban. My question to Jan Björklund is: Why do you say no to a global nuclear ban?
i-806351f203f86114-527	Madam President, I would like I say yes to a global ban on nuclear weapons. But I say no to a unilateral ban on the possession of nuclear weapons by the West. That is what this convention would mean in practice. If North Korea signs the Convention, everyone will understand that it is only games for the galleries. They're developing nuclear weapons. I assume that no one in this House wants nuclear weapons. But if there are nuclear weapons, I am glad that the good forces in the world also have such weapons and not just the bad ones. That's what this is about. It is easy to make demands on Western democracies to equip them down and stand defenceless. The poems completely ignore the declarations you sign and run your own race anyway. The free liberal West must also be able to protect itself. There are so many experiences from the 20th century that the evil forces were stronger and took over because the good forces were too naive. Let us not make that mistake in international security policy!
i-806351f203f86114-531	Madam President, I would like We must raise our eyes and remember that 200 000 people died in Nagasaki and Hiroshima. The Non-Proliferation Treaty was aimed at ensuring that the five nuclear weapons States committed themselves under Article 6 to dismantle them as a matter of urgency. That's almost 50 years ago. That we from the Swedish side should lean towards having security under a nuclear umbrella is to legitimise nuclear weapons. The purpose and great added value of the Nuclear Weapons Convention is to say once and for all that nuclear weapons do not belong on this planet, no more than landmines or chemical weapons do. Jan Björklund's reasoning legitimises nuclear weapons. It approves the balance of terror by means of nuclear weapons. Those days must be over. It is regrettable that you have been on the wrong side of this question, Jan Björklund.
i-806351f203f86114-535	Madam President, I would like I suppose this debate reflects a debate that you might as well have in the government room. I also assume that Stefan Löfven and Peter Hultqvist make some of my arguments in discussions with Isabella Lövin. That is why Isabella Lövin has to take this up in debate articles and games instead of accepting the government's decisions. It is quite obvious that this is the case. The Green Party has agreed that we have signed a host country agreement with NATO in full knowledge of NATO's nuclear capabilities. Isabella Lövin may not know, but I am absolutely convinced that everyone else in the government knew about it. Why did you sign the agreement if you now want to throw NATO out of cooperation? That's what it means. We can no longer cooperate militarily with such countries. We can no longer accept aid from the United States, for example, if we accede to that convention. That is the very meaning of the Convention, and that is why not a single NATO country subscribes. Why did you sign the host country agreement if you want to withdraw from it?
i-806351f203f86114-538	Madam President, I would like Jan Björklund, you are known for being very firm in the debate. Everything is right or wrong, black or white. But you are also known to change your position 100 percent. What was wrong on Monday is right today. Let me give you a few examples. You were involved in abolishing military service in Sweden, now you want it. You were involved in abolishing the emergency services in Sweden, now you want them back. You've been critical of a too harsh treatment of unaccompanied refugee children, now you're saying no to doing anything for them. You've been in favour of more equal parental insurance, now you're against it. I would like to ask about another day's quotation from Jan Björklund. You were involved in selling out large parts of the Swedish school to venture capital companies and limited companies. Just before the last election you suddenly made a few moves and said: No, venture capital companies probably don't fit to own schools. What's the day listing today, Jan Björklund? Is venture capital companies suitable to own schools?
i-806351f203f86114-542	Madam President, I would like At least I don't change my mind as quickly as Jonas Sjöstedt did about LSS. He changed his mind from December 3rd to the vote on December 14th. You stand in the square and you say stop the cuts and then you vote for cuts in this House. Of course, you have to take the impression of things that are happening. The free school inquiry that I set up and then helped to sew the solution together with the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party gained experience from the development. No one in the early 1990s, when free schools were allowed, had anticipated the large group formations. This means that we need to adjust and adapt the legislation. That's what six parties agreed on in the Free School investigation. I shook hands with Stefan Löfven about the settlement before the election. The day after the election he shook hands with Jonas Sjöstedt about a completely different solution. There, Stefan Löfven changed his mind. I stand by the solution that we agreed.
i-806351f203f86114-545	Madam President, I would like The venture capital companies' idea is to make a lot of money quickly. They go into businesses, process them, and then they sell them off. It is profit maximization, often linked to tax planning and various trivial arrangements that mean that you do not have to contribute to the tax money that you live on. The way I see it, it's hardly a suitable owner of schools. It seems that before the last election there was a moment of insight at Jan Björklund who has created the whole system. He said it might not be so good, and we got some expression for that now. But the question is, what do you think today? What's the day note? Is it good that venture capital companies own schools? Would it be better not to have these companies as owners? I didn't get a really good answer to that.
i-806351f203f86114-547	Madam President, I would like I'm behind the Free School investigation. It contained proposals that were then scrapped because the government was forced to settle with the Left Party to completely ban free schools. The structure of the Friskolan inquiry is that owners of free schools – at least large owners – should be long-term owners. Short-term venture capital companies are not long-term, just as Jonas Sjöstedt describes. The big difference is that if you want freedom of choice in the field of school for parents, then you have to allow independent schools. Not everything is better because it is municipal or because politicians decide. In Dagens Medicin a large survey was reported on which hospital in Sweden has the largest availability. Yes, it's the private Saint Göran's hospital – hears and astounds – which is profit-making, Jonas Sjöstedt. Imagine that some positive things can be achieved even in enterprise! English School is a profit-making school group. It has over 100,000 children in line. Why? Do you think the parents at all costs want the children to go to a profit-making school? No, they want it because it's a good school.
i-806351f203f86114-552	Madam President, I would like During this party leader debate, we have heard how Lövven' lack of leadership has become clear. What he claims to have prioritised is being waved away by his partner. There is no line in government policy. There seems to be only one opinion today. Those who suffer for this are the welfare and those who are stuck in care queues. The government stands for a lack of welfare. We Christian Democrats want to deliver a welfare promise. We want to cut off the care queues, build away the shortage of retirement homes and reverse the police crisis. Sweden deserves better than the red-green government. Sweden deserves an alliance government. I think that this debate has shown it with all the clarity that is desirable. It is now eight months before election day. The Christian Democrats go to elections to replace the government's welfare weakness with a welfare promise.
i-806351f203f86114-562	Madam President, I would like We have a subsidiarity test ahead of us from the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Subsidiarity tests are quite unusual in this House. We from the Swedish Democrats tend to be quite alone in asking for such trials. That's why they don't call for any chamber debates. But in this case, it has, I am glad to say, become a debate, but there should be more. If you ask politicians from the major parties if the EU has improved – the reputation is not the very best in many Member States – there will always be a patent response to the EU becoming narrower and sharper. Let's see. I leave it to others to judge what it is like to make a better Europe. This case concerns so-called combined directives. One should be able to combine loads from truck to shipping, for example. This reduces the strain on our roads. It is a very good ambition, and we in the Swedish Democrats share it and think it is good. But then there is the usual: now we are talking from Europe and Brussels about exactly how you are going to proceed. So they know much better than the rest of us. Then you draw a line across Europe and say that this is what you are going to do. It's supposed to be 100 miles between the combined terminals. This is a very rigid way of dealing with an issue. Our idea is simply that this should be left to the Member States themselves. We tabled a reservation, which I would ask to be approved. It is not so terribly different from the committee's proposal as a whole. Since we put it forward, it has become apparent that the whole committee wants the matter to be sent back together with a motivation for it all. We also think so, and we also welcome the fact that the other parties have come up with much the same view as we in the Swedish Democrats. I would like to say that with satisfaction. Then the next question comes up. Let us say that we are sending this to Brussels and saying that we do not like this supranationality. What happens to this when it's down there? Some people in this House have told me that this is being put on a shelf, and there it is. It rarely happens that it has any consistency, at least not when it comes from a small and, in the eyes of the European Union, insignificant nation such as Sweden. Unfortunately, we have very little say in this matter. Once again, I would like to endorse the reservation.
i-KscNm1LcpHsPb8zBWUqwxZ	Madam President, I would like This proposal from the EU came at the time of the presentation of the second part of the mobility package on 8 November. I would like to start by saying that the committee naturally welcomes the Commission's review of the entire road transport legislation. It is important that such a review is carried out. This includes the proposal to amend the combined directive. The Swedish Parliament has previously stated that there are currently significant problems in the field of road transport, which means that the competitiveness of Swedish road haulage companies is greatly weakened. A well-functioning internal market with a healthy and level playing field between the EU Member States, all of which comply with the common rules, is therefore extremely important. Since many of the proposals presented under the mobility package are closely linked, I think it would be good if we could take the most comprehensive decisions. In this context, we can see that the rules on the road stage for combined transport should be coordinated with those for cabotage. With regard to the combined directive, we consider it essential to promote multimodality and an effective combination of different modes of transport in order to reduce CO2 emissions and air pollution. We consider that, overall, the proposal put forward is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. However, since the rules on combined transport exist at Union level, the necessary changes aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Directive cannot be made at Member State level, but must be done jointly – hence the overall assessment that subsidiarity can work. However, we have reservations about parts of the proposal. This applies precisely to the part dealing with the exact number of kilometres between different terminals. The proposal in the directive says 150 kilometres. We do not think it is appropriate to do this. Of course, we share the Commission's view that it is important for combined transport to be promoted through transhipment terminals and that they be built and made available to transport companies, but nevertheless we oppose the requirement to have a maximum distance between terminals. It is not possible to do this in a country like Sweden. As a result of our geographical conditions, such rules are simply not appropriate. Furthermore, we have concerns about the proportionality of the proposal. The European Union says that there are great gains in doing this, but we are doubtful that it really is. Rather, we fear that the requirement of maximum distance between transhipment terminals would entail unjustifiably high costs which do not correspond to the benefits of the measure. For Sweden, which is a vast country with long distances, this would entail far-reaching costs in relation to the benefits. We believe that this must instead be part of each country's planning of the infrastructure and the investments to be made there. It is in this that the proposal must be included. We believe that the requirement of terminal density does not comply with the principle of proportionality, which is included in the subsidiarity test. I must also say that I am being perplexed by the views of the Swedish Democrats. Tony Wiklander spoke a moment ago and said in principle the same thing as I did, but nevertheless he called for the approval of a reservation which is reasonably a blow to the air. It must be for the Swedish Democrats. They have such a policy in many respects, at least in our area. We will simply see what this leads to. Such objections as Tony Wiklander put forward in substance are precisely what we are saying. There is, of course, something else; it is about the resistance to the whole of Europe and to being present in this context at all. The Swedish Democrats are turning here like worms. In conclusion, we believe that the requirement for a maximum distance between transhipment terminals is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. I therefore support the committee's proposal in its opinion.
i-806351f203f86114-582	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is a good thing that we have had this discussion in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and that we have come this far and agree on the report, except as regards the dissenting views of the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the countries in Europe that is most dependent on a functioning transport and transport policy. We have a great need for trucks and truck transport in Sweden. It is certainly no coincidence that we in Sweden have two of the world's largest truck manufacturers. Sweden will develop truck transport, not phase them out. We're going to have taller and heavier trucks. We shall have better competitiveness in the Swedish haulage industry. But we should also have better controls and a compliance that actually works out on our roads. Our companies and their products have long distances to reach the European market and the rest of the world. Long-distance transport must function and be competitive, and it must take place on an equal footing. That is why we say no to new truck taxes, new fuel taxes and new air taxes. Instead, we say 'yes' to better controls, more police and more force against fraud and illegal transport. We therefore welcome the Commission's review of road transport legislation, but we are not prepared to deteriorate for Sweden's haulage industry and for Swedish companies and jobs. We will be watching this closely. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are in favour of the revision of the existing road transport legislation under the so-called mobility package. Today there are major problems in the field of road transport which weaken the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. It is therefore very important that there is a well-functioning internal market with a healthy and level playing field between the EU Member States and that everyone complies with the common regulatory framework. The committee considers that the Commission's proposal at a horizontal level can be considered to be compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. We share the Commission's view that it is important to promote combined transport by building or making more transhipment terminals available to carriers. But we say no to a strict requirement of maximum distance between terminals. It risks entailing infrastructure investment costs and is too far-reaching in relation to the directive's objective of promoting the transfer of goods transport from road to more environmentally friendly modes of transport. But whatever rules are introduced or changed, control and compliance is absolutely the most important thing. If this is not done properly, it does not matter what rules we have. If cheating and illegal competition can continue, then nothing will be won. Madam President, I would like That's why we Moderates want GPS control of trucks entering the country. It should be possible to track the trucks and transports in Sweden and then ensure that no crimes have been committed. We must also have a clearer traffic police force in Sweden, and we must have more traffic police to check out illegal commercial traffic. Otherwise, competition is distorted, and legal hauliers continue to be eliminated by the illegal ones. I support the proposal in the Committee on Transport's opinion TU8.
i-806351f203f86114-592	Madam President, I would like As the combined directive is already in EU law, we do not think in this case that it is a problem to consider it compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. We think that the government's response is good – combined terminals must be more dense than is the case. When you talk to freight buyers, a lot of people say that the lack of combined terminals makes it difficult to choose the railway. It is extremely important that we look at how we can strategically strengthen more combined terminals in strategic nodes, because this is demanded by the industry, and we work too little on this. Here we would need to strengthen our work. With regard to 74 tonnes of lorries, as the previous speaker mentioned, our position in the Left Party is that this should only be favoured when it does not strategically move towards rail transfer. Within the HCT group, which was appointed by the previous government to research the operation of 74 tonnes in the road network, there is research that indicates that, in order not to promote transhipment to rail, it should use the money you have – usually it is a little too little money compared to what you need – to strengthen the roads and bridges that favour transhipment to rail. It is a female research group that has come up with this, which is very exciting. Women are constructive. I think that we should carry this with us all the time in the discussion – now we have pushed through 74 tonnes, and there may be different opinions on it, but it should not favour the transfer to rail. Then it is important that the money we have is used to strengthen the infrastructure of 74 tonnes of trucks against nodes where they tranship to rail and shipping, and then there should also be more transhipment terminals in these nodes.
i-806351f203f86114-595	Madam President, I would like I come running in with my breath in my throat. I'll try to get a little bit together and see if it's all right to make this speech. Both the party leader debate and the ensuing debate took place a little quickly. Madam President, I would like Since I am first in the debate, I would like to begin by greeting my committee colleagues and the President's Bureau a late but well a good continuation of the new year. Of course, I also support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3 in paragraph 4. This year it is also an election year, so the subject of more rapid re-election is well suited to starting the new national year. A summary of the proposal may, of course, be appropriate. Re-election shall be held as soon as possible and no later than three months after the Re-election Board has decided on re-election. In the event of re-election, no new parties shall be able to be notified, and only party names from the elections to which the re-election relates may be used. A party's notification of candidates for a particular election shall also apply as a starting point for the re-election, although it shall be possible to change the nominations if the need actually arises. None of this is particularly strange either. Otherwise it would have been called new elections instead of re-election. The proposal also includes certain questions about voting cards and appeals. Madam President, I would like Questions related to the elections lie in time, not only because it is elections this year, but also because questions about voting power, censorship and so-called fake news are also in time. After all, there are some sometimes dishonest debaters who sense a Russian behind every stump and who quickly paste Putinepitet on all those who do not belong to the right opinion's slumping community. The question of Russia's influence on elections in the United States, for example, seems to have paralysed the entire climate of debate across the Atlantic, where both candidates have been accused of dealing with Putin, troll factories and other more or less shady types. If there is something we can learn from it, it is that we in Sweden probably should not do as they have done in the United States. There, the concepts are used for news that you simply don't like or appreciate. Unfortunately, Madam President, this is done by both sides and therefore risks watering down the concept of "fake news" in the same way as a number of concepts have been watered down in the Swedish debate. I hope that we can keep the Swedish debate above that level. I am pleased that, at least in this committee, we are, in my view, keeping a much better note towards each other. In Germany, a different path has been chosen and attempts have been made to legislate out of bad tone by obliging social media, for example, to delete content that could be contrary to German law. This means applying freedom of expression to multinational companies. They shall decide within 24 hours whether or not the content is contrary to the law. A comparison can of course be appropriate. If this sounds like a long time, you can imagine how it would have sounded if, for example, the Chancellor of Justice had had someone prosecuted in the public court for an opinion and the court then cleared or convicted within 24 hours of its publication. As a result, the online giants delete both truly illegal opinions and parodys of these opinions. In some cases, network activists put in systems to report content they simply don't appreciate, and soon thereafter this content disappears. I do not think this is the way to go in Sweden. I hope, as I said, that we can keep the Swedish debate climate at a factual and more informative level. But that said, Madam President, there are things in Sweden that we need to review and improve in order to strengthen democracy. What I am referring to now is the election fraud which unfortunately has all too often occurred. There are several examples of this in the near future; of transgressions so great that it has even led to re-election. A common fraud is the disappearance of ballot papers or the placing of ballots from one party on top of another party's ballots. There are also examples of how postmen have thrown out ballot papers and electoral material in protest because they simply do not sympathise with the views of the political party or the information produced by the material. We therefore welcome the conclusions drawn by the government in the bill. In particular, it is not intended to go further with the failure to place the ballot papers behind the electoral screens, as this is more likely to invite opponents of democracy to sabotage or manipulate the ballots. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are proposing a simple but also very effective solution to the problem of electoral fraud. Much of the cheating could be dealt with quite simply by the fact that all parties sitting in the Swedish Parliament share a joint ballot. The opportunities that exist today to vote for whomever one wishes of the party candidates can remain, for example by leaving the back of the ballot for that purpose. That is why, Madam President, the opinion of the Swedish Democrats at this point is very clear. Sweden should introduce a system of joint ballots. Precisely how the system of a common ballot is to be designed in practice is, of course, an open issue that should be further explored and thus also discussed. No other party in the Swedish Parliament is prepared to even discuss the issue of joint ballots further. That is why, unfortunately, I am convinced that the next elections will also witness the continuation of this type of anti-democratic election fraud.
i-806351f203f86114-608	Madam President, I would like General and secret elections, along with a number of fundamental rights, are the absolute core of democracy. Ideally, everything is right, and the electoral system is effective and fair. The voters' verdicts may decide who will have confidence to control what needs to be governed jointly, and the steering can take place in a predictable and stable manner. Then there are situations where it becomes more complicated and where it is not as simple. It is particularly important, then, that we have established clear and wise rules on how we deal with situations that arise. Such a situation is precisely when re-election needs to be carried out. Political stability is desirable from so many perspectives, not least for the economy. The biggest threats are always the unknown threats. When we get to the point where re-election needs to be carried out, there is good reason to ensure that this can be done as quickly as possible given the high demands for constitutional legal certainty that need to be made. This issue has been dealt with in the past. In connection with the drafting by the Constitutional Committee of its report Faster re-election during the parliamentary year 2012/13, the Riksdag decided to announce to the Government that the conditions for re-election should be basically the same as for the ordinary elections. The Parliament also announced that a deadline should be set that is as short as is practicable. In the report, the Constitutional Committee pointed out that the best possible conditions for a rapid re-election, for example, are the same voting list, and the same applies to ballot papers, parties and candidates. However, the proposal, which does not have any improvement at all, only the participating parties cannot be changed. The proposal gives the parties the opportunity to run new nomination processes, to produce new ballot papers and to apply a new updated voting list. It can feel good from a democratic perspective. The more choices, the better. At the same time, however, the idea of a rapid re-election is being eroded. A re-election should be just a re-election and not an extra choice. Then, as we have seen, there may also be reasons to have them, but that is another matter. Madam President, I would like According to the bill, the maximum period for re-election is three months after the Election Review Board has decided that re-election will be carried out. To that shall be added the time from the election day until the election result is announced, normally one to two weeks, the time to appeal the election result which is three weeks and also the time it takes for the Election Review Board to investigate and decide that re-election is to be conducted. In recent years we have had some situations in which re-election has needed to be carried out. I am thinking, for example, of Västra Götaland County Council and Örebro Municipality. There were re-elections three months and four days after the re-election decision was taken. That's four days more than we're about to decide. The problem was not the timing itself, but that it took a very long time for the Elections Board to investigate the matter and make a decision. Almost five months after the election day, a decision could be made. What we are now deciding on risks becoming rather toothless for the purpose we want to achieve. I would therefore like to support the Center Party's reservation 1 that the same conditions should prevail in re-election as in the ordinary elections and that a re-election should take place within two months of the decision of the Election Review Board to re-election.
i-806351f203f86114-616	Madam President, I would like The Liberals are in part in favour of the report on faster re-election that we are now debating. Re-election is not something a politician wants, even if it has gone badly for himself in the elections. At the same time, however, the possibility of both legal certainty and urgency being able to implement it when a clearly fundamental part of a democracy is needed. As far as possible, the same conditions should apply for re-election as in the ordinary elections. No new parties shall be able to be notified to the re-election. Only the party names used in the re-election may be used. The original notification of candidates by a party shall also apply to a re-election, unless it is precisely the candidates who are the problem and are the basis for the re-election. Then, of course, they should also be able to change. The Liberals nevertheless have two reservations in this report. They concern the secret of elections and the security of elections and the secret of elections for the visually impaired. The Swedish electoral system has shortcomings in terms of election secrecy and electoral security. We who go around examining other countries' choices can also see at home that there is a family vote where several people stand behind the election screen and together prepare their ballot envelopes, even though it is not formally allowed. Many voters also feel uncomfortable having to pick ballot papers that are openly presented in the polling station. The Government instructed a government investigator to consider and propose changes to the way in which ballot papers are provided and how they should be placed. However, the investigator's proposal that the ballot papers be placed inside the election screen met with considerable criticism, partly because of the obvious risk of sabotage. We share the government's assessment that the investigation's proposal in that part should not be carried out. At the same time, we are critical of the fact that so much precious time has been lost in terms of the possibility of strengthening electoral secrecy and security. The government does say in the bill that: The question of taking measures to further strengthen the electoral secret should be the subject of further consideration. It is a little offensive statement on a really important issue, I think. Unfortunately, ahead of the 2018 elections, it is now too late to make reforms. However, efforts should be made to address the shortcomings at least in the 2019 European Parliament elections, which is why the Liberals' reservation remains. 2014 was the first year in which the authorities would ensure that polling stations were accessible to all and thus that individuals with disabilities would not be discriminated against. The municipalities' exemption to use inaccessible premises then ceased. But still in 2018, people with visual impairment cannot vote with complete election secrecy in the polling station. It is not possible to vote in person for a candidate without asking for help and then revealing his or her electoral secret. In response to a previous motion request from the Liberals, the Riksdag announced in 2016 the importance of the visually impaired being able to vote in person without having to disclose the electoral secret. The ambition should, in the Parliament's opinion, be that an adequate solution should be in place as soon as possible, but at the latest before the 2022 general elections. The Liberals welcome the fact that there is broad support for this in the Riksdag. It is therefore more worrying that the government has still not taken any concrete investigative measures. It is not enough to emphasise the importance of everyone being able to vote in a dignified manner or of confidentiality. This is not acceptable in a country like Sweden. We therefore come back to the same issue and call on the government to urgently set up an investigation involving concrete proposals on how to strengthen the electoral confidentiality of the visually impaired. I request the approval of reservations 2 and 4.
i-806351f203f86114-625	Madam President, I would like Having an electoral system that is reliable, that people recognise and that is stable over time is an important foundation of a democracy. Confidence in democracy and thus the abandonment of experiments with other forms of governance is a very important foundation. Therefore, care should be taken with changes in the electoral system. Errors must not be made during elections, but they still happen. It is therefore possible to appeal against elections. This is done, and we have had re-election on a number of occasions in Sweden. That the re-election can take place as quickly as possible is very important. The fact that the re-election takes place under conditions as similar as possible to ordinary elections is also important for confidence in democracy. An investigation has looked at ways to achieve faster re-election. There are a few points that we would like to emphasise. A re-election shall take place no later than three months after the decision of the Review Board. Only parties who took part in the ordinary elections can take part in the re-election. You can only have new candidates in exceptional cases. The deadlines for sending voting cards are shortened, as is the streamlining of the appeal process in order to achieve faster results. I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-806351f203f86114-628	Madam President, I would like I hope I have regained a little calmer breathing now – I was a little out of breath when I stood here in the speaker's chair for the first time today. As a social democrat, you also represent, of course, the government, Hans Ekström, and it is natural for the government to demand approval of the proposal in the report and of the proposal as a whole. The Swedish Democrats here have a reservation in favour of a follow-up motion in which we argue for a system where consideration should be given to looking at this with joint ballots. The government has also set up a reference group. I personally sat in that reference group, where this issue was never really discussed at all. There are other countries that have such a solution, and I think that some cheating could be dealt with in this way. Some types of cheating would be completely impossible with a common ballot. I have not really heard any strong arguments against such a solution or against why at least one could not investigate the matter further. Some arguments have perhaps been raised that it would be more complicated with personal choices and the like, but I am quite convinced that we could solve the knot as well. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, I can say that I would very much like to sit down and discuss how to move forward and at least look at this issue more unconditionally. I think we all agree that the electoral fraud that has taken place in this country is totally unacceptable and must not happen. We have been put in a re-election system because there has been some electoral fraud. I hope that we can all share the view that this is a problem that we must tackle. My question to Mr Ekström is simply: is Hans Ekström prepared to consider the question of looking at a solution with joint ballots?
i-806351f203f86114-634	Madam President, I would like As I said, I think it's important to be very careful about changes in the electoral system. It's not something that invites experimentation. I can also come up in my Chamber with exciting ideas on how to have electoral systems that I might personally think were better, more efficient or better. But I think you should be very careful about changes, and if they are to be made they should be done in broad political consensus, because it is very easy that you otherwise tread wrong. There will, of course, be constant need for reform. There are new technologies that may allow you to manage choices in other ways, but caution is still the main line of change.
i-806351f203f86114-636	Madam President, I would like Here is a Social Democrat and here is a Swedish Democrat, and in this case we probably think about 99% the same. I fully agree with Mr Hans in his analysis that we are not making changes to the electoral system overnight. It should be done with caution. We must always observe the precautionary principle. That is exactly how our follow-up motion and our reservation are designed. We want the issue to be investigated and discussed. This closes the door to the government, even though it is noted that this fraud is taking place. I think we can all agree that if a system of joint ballots were to be introduced in Sweden, it would at least make it impossible for this type of common fraud to occur. There may of course be other disadvantages, but if we were to introduce it, we would not be the first in the world, so I would not say that it is very experimental. Our reservation is carefully written where it is about looking further at the issue. My hope is that, at least in committee or at some later date, we may be able to come back to the issue and discuss it further, because we all agree that these electoral fraud problems are something that needs to be curbed in order to strengthen and secure our democracy and freedom of expression.
i-806351f203f86114-640	Madam President, I would like I think we can be sure that these proposals made today are not the last changes to the electoral system. It will certainly happen, and it will happen step by step. Of course, a future investigation will also be able to look at this matter. But as I said, the question is not ready for that now. There are good suggestions that you can sit and vote at home at your toad or computer while having a party with your friends, and what effects it can have on the election result you do not know. I think caution is the main line, but changes will certainly come.
i-LbnCm7DeVp62pox95Sb8ZG	Madam President, I would like Good continuation to Mrs President and good continuation to my dear colleagues in the Constitutional Committee! We will start spring in the Constitutional Committee by taking on something that might actually be relevant even after the autumn elections, but we must hope that this will not happen. Since its creation in 1975, six municipalities and a county council have had re-election for various reasons. Three of these re-elections have taken place in the near future – two in connection with the 2010 elections in the Västra Götaland region and in a constituency in Örebro, and one in the last elections, 2014, when it did not really happen in Båstad. At all these re-elections, it took between five and six months to hold the re-election. This led the Constitutional Committee to take the initiative in announcing to the government that we must find ways of doing this. It needs to be speeded up, because there are obviously a number of issues of both a practical and a formal nature that need to be addressed. Madam President, I would like The reasons for re-election have been falsely approved ballot votes, premature votes that have not been counted, voters who have not been allowed to vote, that the votes of the Centre Party have not been included in the final count and that Swedish democratic ballot papers have not been included when the election board has compiled the result. When you have looked at it afterwards, it has been seen that the reasons were, among other things, the use of some of the ballot papers as notebooks, and then this has been mixed up. That is to say, to a large extent we can refer to the human factor. Nevertheless, this should be understood as far as possible eliminated. In the run-up to the 2018 elections, i.e. this autumn, we cannot, of course, rule out the risk that humanity will err this time too, but we also have great reason to believe that there may be other things that may affect in different forms and that we have reason to pay attention. I've spent the last few days at Folk och Försvar, the Defence and Security Policy Conference in Sälen. There a whole day and several seminars were devoted to this very subject. Our police and military intelligence and security organisations have every reason to believe that our elections this autumn will be subject to various forms of influence. It may be influence operations during the election movement itself, but it is also not excluded that influence can occur prior to the election of the electoral rolls, afterwards during the count of votes cast and perhaps also with regard to our various computer systems. That is to say, other causes than purely human may be part of the playing field. We must therefore rig this up, and that is why it is very good that we should get this proposal with a number of different amendments to adopt a position in good time for the autumn elections so that we can be prepared if this happens even during this election. Madam President, I would like In the commission to the government there are a lot of different problems that have also been addressed in the investigation that was presented as the basis for this bill and that one might not really think of in the first place. You want faster re-election. What does that involve? This includes, for example, that you may have moved or turned 18 during the past and if new parties have been formed. For six months, some new questions may have appeared on the political board, and from this new constellations as well as a desire to form new parties may have arisen. It may also be that candidates have dropped out, changed parties or at worst passed away. All this, of course, has boiled down to a number of proposals in the proposal that we have dealt with in our report and which we Moderates support. There are some outstanding issues which, among other things, the Liberals have raised in their reservations, which obviously need to be looked at. It is about electoral secrecy and accessibility, two very important issues which will obviously not be released. The proposal as such and its proposals, I think, have been described in a very commendable way by my predecessors here in the speaker's chair. For our part, we Moderates are in favour of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-806351f203f86114-652	Madam President, I would like 2011 was a dramatic year in the Västra Götaland region. For the first time, there was a re-election at county and regional level. Prior to that, there have been re-elections at municipal level on a number of occasions. The reasons for this have been, among other things, falsely approved ballots, uncounted premature votes and voters who have not been given the opportunity to vote. In Västra Götaland it was especially the Center Party that was affected. There were 16 votes that disappeared on the way between the election officers in Skövde and the County Administrative Board, votes that could have moved mandates. In addition, it was also over 100 votes in Gothenburg that were wrongly approved. On this occasion, it took eight months for the re-election to take place, which caused criticism. This harsh criticism has now led us to have legislative changes on Parliament's table that will tighten up and ensure that there can be much faster re-election in the future. It is, of course, hoped that we will avoid re-election as far as possible and that it will be completely right at the first stage. In response to the criticism that existed, the Government appointed the 2015 Election Act investigation, which in October 2016 left the report Faster re-election and reinforced protection of the electoral secret. The section on the electoral secret will be returned to the government. The re-election part of the investigation has thus been processed into a proposal which the Constitutional Committee has dealt with, and we are today dealing with the proposed legislative amendments to the KUl8 report. I support the committee's proposal. In the report, the committee proposes that the time allowed between a re-election decision by the Administrative Board and the re-election may not exceed three months. In order to speed up the process, restrictions are proposed which also make it clear that it is a re-election that is at stake and not an extra, or new, choice. Only the party names used in the election may be used in the re-election. The lists of candidates who were on the ballot form in the ordinary election should be the starting point, but with the possibility of minor changes if, for example, a person is not eligible for any reason. There will also be a shorter deadline for the transmission of voting cards, and any appeals will be made directly to the Election Review Board. In parallel, in addition to the government proposal, the committee has also dealt with a number of demands for exercise from the general period of exercise, as well as two follow-up motions. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-806351f203f86114-659	Madam President, I would like If someone has turned on the TV, because many of our parliamentary colleagues follow this debate via the television, or if people from the public look in and see what the Constitutional Committee is doing, it may sound as if it is an immateriality – faster re-election. But let me give the background. The Constitutional Committee has the task of safeguarding democracy. We have been given the task not only of examining the government but also of being guarantors of the protection, preservation and safeguarding of democracy. A very important part of democracy is the elections: that they become legitimate, that they gain acceptance and that they cannot be criticized. It is now the case that the re-elections that have been made have been criticised. This is an investigation that has resulted in the government's proposal, a bill, about faster re-election. However, it does not cover all the problems. The colleagues in the Center Party and the Liberals have raised issues that have not been addressed. The Swedish Democrats have also mentioned solutions that are possible to discuss. Yet there is no support for them. How can this be? We must have the widest possible majority behind each position. After all, it is a question of gaining support and legitimacy, and then we cannot change too quickly. What we have changed with this report is that re-election should be held as soon as possible, and we agree on that, but at the latest within three months of the re-election decision of the Administrative Board. We also agree that no new parties should be able to be notified of the re-election and that only the party names used in the election to which this re-election relates may be used. It is already a step in the right direction to address the problems that have existed in the past. We also propose to the House to decide that a party's notification of candidates for a particular election should be the starting point for the re-election. The notification shall be as similar as possible to the circumstances prevailing in the ordinary elections. As the reservists have pointed out, the committee has not reached it all the way, but we agree on that. It is the rules of the game that apply to all parties and to all those who vote. There is therefore security and protection of democracy. In the future, there may be changes, and we can make adjustments – not least Hans Ekström raised that issue. We make them when we all agree. It cannot be ruled out that the problems that have been discussed will have solutions in a future. But before that, this is as far as we have come to guarantee democracy and elections.
i-T11g7tTKhVJXMHQH8vy8dF	Madam President, I would like Report KU12 concerns damages and the European Convention. This is an amendment to the Compensation Act, which provides for the possibility for individual natural and legal persons to obtain compensation from the State or a municipality in the event of breaches of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The ECHR sets out, among other things, those rights, but also rights of access to justice and legal certainty. Article 13 of the Convention provides that the person whose rights and freedoms under the Convention have been violated shall have the right to an effective remedy before a domestic authority. This means the right to have a claim of a breach of the Convention reviewed by a national court or by an authority and to have a remedy, remedy or remedy in the event of a found infringement. However, there are no specific requirements on the forms of remedies, which means that the remedy provided by the State depends on the nature of the complaint to be assessed. It is primarily the respective countries that may lay down the detailed conditions. The States have a certain margin of discretion. A remedy can also be compensatory, i.e. offer compensation for the damage caused by the infringement. Thus, damages are a compensatory remedy. According to the Compensation Act, which is the case in this case, inter alia, the State or the municipality must make good any damage caused by faults or omissions in the performance of public authority. In addition, special legislation regulates compensation for infringements of the ECHR. In addition to legislation, there is also case law that regulates these issues and clarifies the context of the damages issue. For example, the Supreme Court has found in several decisions that both the State and the municipality have liability for damages in the event of such infringements. HD has also stated that public liability in Swedish law must be assessed in the light of the requirements of the ECHR and that Swedish legislation must be interpreted in accordance with the Treaty if necessary. It is clear from certain judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that one has gone along the same lines of thought. The clarification of court decisions is a good thing. They provide some legal guidance on the issue of damages. But that's not enough. In this context, legislation also needs to catch up with the development of case law. Anyone who, for example, is currently searching for knowledge of available remedies can find no answers in the legislation on these specific questions. In order to form an idea of the legal situation, the individual must instead read a large number of legal cases and try to get an idea of the conditions for obtaining damages. Although the case law of the European Court of Human Rights has not required that the right to damages be governed by law, the Government, and the Committee shares the view, believes that there should be legal regulation on these issues to strengthen individuals' rights of redress and to underline the importance of the fundamental right enshrined in Article 13. The Government thus notes that under the Convention, Sweden is obliged to provide effective national remedies in order for individuals to have their claims of breaches of the Convention reviewed. If the Convention has been infringed, the individual shall be able to obtain redress. In such cases, compensation shall also be paid only to the extent necessary to make good any such breach. Madam President, I would like The committee also considers in the report the government's proposal to amend the law on compensation for deprivation of liberty and other coercive measures. The amendment corrects a previous incorrect reference in the law. In addition, in certain cases the right to compensation is extended to those who have suffered damage in the event of certain detentions or other coercive measures. As is well known, under the Act, individuals may receive compensation from the State under certain conditions, for example when someone has served a prison sentence but later is acquitted of the offence for which the sentence was imposed. Compensation can also be paid if individuals have suffered personal injury or damage to property when some authorities have handled the captured person, even if there has been legal violence in itself. The government is now proposing some additions to compensation for damages arising in connection with these detentions where the need for the amendment of the law is due to shortcomings in the references between the detention law and the Police Act. According to the proposal, the right to compensation under the detention law should be extended to include damage that may occur when, for example, a police officer uses handcuffs when transporting an accused person to a court hearing, if there is a risk of the accused fleeing. Such an explicit right to compensation has so far been lacking in the detention law. Finally, the Government proposes that the State's liability under the detention law should also cover damages caused by officials of the Coast Guard and the Customs Agency, as they have the right to use violence in certain situations under the Police Act. It is proposed that the legislative amendments to the proposal enter into force on 1 April 2018. The KU supports the considerations in the proposal and endorses the government's legislative proposals in this report.
i-806351f203f86114-676	Madam President, I would like I and Emanuel Öz agree on a great deal, and Mr Emanuel has well explained much of the legal aspects of the matter. The amendment introduces a provision on compensation for infringements of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, normally referred to as the European Convention. According to the provision, the State, a region or a municipality shall make good any damage caused by the violation of the rights of a person under the ECHR by the State, region or municipality. The damages shall be paid to the extent necessary to make good the infringement, as Emanuel Öz said. The committee also proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a law amending the Act on Compensation in the event of detention and other coercive measures. The amendment corrects a previous incorrect reference in the law. It's more of a formal question. In addition, the right to compensation is extended to those who, without fault of their own, suffer personal injury or damage to property due to the practice by certain government officials of lawful violence in the event of detention or other coercive measures. Now, Madam President, I will explain a few new things. The Moderates have in motion 2015/ 16:2502 exercised that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals for regulating the possibility of individual natural and legal persons to receive compensation from the State or a municipality in the event of a breach of the European Convention. In spring 2016, the Riksdag approved the motions of the Moderates and Social Democrats. That's what prompted the bill. In its final report, the inquiry into public liability under the ECHR proposed the introduction of a special provision for damages. Under the proposal, an individual natural or legal person affected by an infringement of the ECHR could receive damages as a result of the infringement by the State or the municipality. Damage in the event of breaches of the ECHR is part of efforts to improve the protection of human rights here in Sweden. Anyone who is subject to a restriction of rights should be compensated for this. The Government notes that under the Convention, Sweden is obliged to provide effective national remedies in order for individuals to be able to have their claims of breaches of the Convention reviewed. If the Convention has been infringed, the individual shall also be able to obtain redress. According to the Government, if there are no other means of remedying a breach of the Convention, such compensation may be the right to bring an action for damages against the State or a municipality here in Sweden and not only according to practice. In order to clarify the legal situation and thereby strengthen the protection of rights in Sweden, the Government proposes in this proposal and the committee to introduce in the Compensation Act a possibility of damages in the event of infringements of the European Convention. Madam President, I would like The Alliance has proposed in motion 2015/ 16:2493 that the government should also set up an investigation to analyse the issue of damages in the event of violation of the constitutionally protected rights and freedoms in the government form. The Parliament also approved this proposal. In a case of damages after a person has been wrongly deprived of his or her Swedish nationality, contrary to Chapter 2. § 7 of the form of government, states the Supreme Court that in Swedish law it is considered that special legal support is required in order to be entitled to compensation for non-profit damage. Some explicit legal support to award damages to a person in the event of a breach of Chapter 2. Section 7, the form of government does not exist. Nevertheless, it is noted that an infringement of the provision is of such a nature as to justify a prima facie case for the award of non-profit compensation. The judgment brings a partly new dimension to the form of government. Prior to the judgment, the form of government itself was not considered to give rise to rights which the individual could invoke in court in order to obtain damages from the State. However, it has been possible to compensate for non-profit damages in cases of non-compliance with the provisions of the ECHR. This new dimension of government can thus be said to bring about a welcome unity of individual people between the form of government and the European Convention as regards the concrete meaning of fundamental rights and freedoms. The Government states in the bill that it intends to return to this issue in a different context. We look forward to the government meeting this announcement from the Riksdag.
i-806351f203f86114-686	Madam President, I would like The basic view of the Swedish Democrats is that all decrees and constitutions that apply in Sweden in one way or another must have been established by the Swedish people through either the Riksdag or some other elected Swedish body. All the regulations and decrees in force in Sweden should also be able to be amended by the Swedish people, if necessary, in the usual democratic manner. On this basis, we are opposed to any supranationality in which the establishment and control of constitutions is beyond the control of the Swedish people. This applies not least to the rights and freedoms enjoyed as citizens, but also to how more universal human rights should be interpreted and applied in a Swedish context, because although we believe that certain values are indeed universal – the right to life, the prohibition of torture, etc. – control of these must be as close to the people as possible. The present proposal proposes the introduction in the Compensation Act of the possibility of compensation in the event of infringements of the ECHR. As we have heard here before, the Convention states in Article 13 that everyone has the right to an effective remedy before a national authority, that is to say, that one has the right to have one's case brought before a national court, for example. The Government also believes that if the Convention has been violated, the individual should be able to receive compensation in the form of damages. This in itself is not a revolutionary idea, Madam President. On the contrary, this is generally true even today, since, among other things, it is stipulated that the State or a municipality shall make good any damage caused by misconduct or negligence in the exercise of public authority in the pursuit of activities for which the State or the municipality is responsible. In recent years, case law has also developed a right to compensation if the European Convention on Human Rights is violated. The new law thus becomes little more than further codification of existing practices. The Swedish Democrats share the view that it is good for individuals to have more opportunities for damages if they have their rights and freedoms violated. We also think it is important to safeguard the principle of legality, that is to say that there must be explicit legal support in order, for example, to be able to award damages or other legal penalties. However, we strongly doubt that the government is proposing that the law be interpreted flexibly and designed to follow dynamically any practice in which the European Court of Human Rights may develop. It is very unfortunate to choose a path in which Swedish courts are forced to adapt Swedish law and law enforcement to a court that is beyond Swedish control against all principles of transparency, predictability and simplicity. Since pre-work statements have a great bearing on Swedish law interpretation, we would have liked a less broad wording in both law and pre-work. A more appropriate way to deal with these pressing issues would have been to continue to follow the Swedish legal tradition of transforming, i.e. translating and adapting, international agreements into Swedish law instead of incorporating them directly and leaving the interpretation representation to others. Thus, a system would have been preferable where the rights in the European Convention, like most other international agreements that Sweden has entered into, could have been defined and followed up on the basis of, for example, how they are defined in Chapter 2. the form of government. This is because, unlike the European Convention, the form of government is not a product negotiated as a compromise between many different states, where the lowest common denominator has prevailed regardless of the different conditions of the states, and is under the direct control of the Riksdag and can therefore be adapted according to Swedish conditions. In this way, both the principle of legality and the other democratic principles could have been adequately met.
i-806351f203f86114-694	Madam President, I would like The KU5 is about monitoring the application of the principle of subsidiarity by Parliament. According to the parliamentary order, the Constitutional Committee must follow this work and communicate its observations to the House once a year. This report presents the results of the follow-up carried out in 2016. The report is also based on opinions that we have obtained from eight other committees here in Parliament, whose views have been valuable. As you know, the principle of subsidiarity is that decisions should be taken as effectively as possible and as closely as possible to the citizens. It is used to determine whether an issue should be decided at EU level or in the Member States, i.e. whether it concerns the division of powers between national parliaments and the European Union. It was in the context of the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon that the influence of national parliaments was strengthened, including through the possibility of subsidiarity testing and the possibility of giving a subsidiarity warning. It is important for Parliament to apply the possibility created by the Treaty of Lisbon at the time – that we, together with other national parliaments, can either influence the content of a legislative proposal or even prevent further consideration of the legislative proposal. Through these possibilities, the Riksdag, together with other national parliaments, can take decisions that end up as close to the citizens as possible. From a democratic point of view, it is important that Swedish citizens feel that decisions taken are not far from them and that they are anchored in everyday Swedish life. The committee has noted that since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and until 31 December 2016, Parliament has examined a total of 623 proposals and submitted a total of 59 reasoned opinions to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. This means that the Riksdag has objected to about 9 per cent of all proposals that have been made. In 2016, the Commission submitted 100 legislative proposals for subsidiarity assessment. This is a significant increase compared to 2015, when only 21 proposals were submitted, and we can also see an increase in the number of reasoned opinions: a total of 13 in 2016. During the year, a yellow card was also issued on the proposal for the so-called Posting of Workers Directive. However, the Parliament did not give a reasoned opinion on this proposal, but it was based on the fact that other national parliaments achieved the required limit values. A total of three yellow cards have been issued since the creation of these tools, representing barely 0.5% of the proposals. This is an indication of the need for more national parliaments to test subsidiarity. A recurring question in the KU5 concerns the Commission's justifications. Article 5 of Protocol No 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality provides that the draft legislative acts are to be justified in relation to those very principles. This applies whether it is the Commission or someone else who is the proposer. In the context of previous follow-ups, we have found shortcomings in the Commission's justifications for its legislative proposals, i.e. justifications for why it would be better to decide on a legislative proposal at Union level. The shortcomings have been the fact that the explanatory memorandums have been incomplete or concise or have been completely lacking, which makes it difficult for national Parliaments to assess whether or not a proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity. In 2016, we found that there has been a positive development, as only a small number of the proposals that were examined were completely lacking in justifications. However, the problem of the lack of justification from the Commission remains de facto. As long as these shortcomings remain, it is a weakness of the legislative process within the Union, for which the Commission is ultimately responsible. It is therefore important that it is clear how the Commission has considered whether or not the proposals comply with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission and other proposers have an absolute obligation to justify their draft legislative acts on the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Protocol No 2. The KU will continue to monitor this issue. Furthermore, Madam President, the KU has repeatedly stressed the value of the exchange of information between national parliaments, as the KU points out again this time. It is noted that no such contacts between our Parliament and other national parliaments are being made in a desirable way. If we do not communicate with other parliaments, we may miss out on valuable information, but we also miss out on the possibility of achieving the limits contained in the Treaty in order to influence the content of or stop a legislative proposal. In order to ensure the effective exercise of parliamentary powers with regard to the monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity, greater cooperation between national parliaments is required. This issue needs to be discussed more seriously and to a greater extent. In this context, however, it should be pointed out that some of the committees have had contacts with the Parliament's representative at the EU institutions and emphasise that the contacts work well and are valuable. This is a possible way of exchanging information with other national parliaments, but, I believe, it is not entirely sufficient to meet the objective of the subsidiarity test in practice. Furthermore, Madam President, when committees dealt with subsidiarity issues, it has been stated that the information contained in the IPEX database is neither complete nor relevant. For example, there has been a lack of data from some Member States and the information has not always been available in English. In addition, the deadline for subsidiarity matters starts to run simultaneously in all Member States, which means that the committees generally benefit from IPEX in the preparation of a dossier. This is a recurring problem: the committee highlights the limited usefulness of IPEX, which needs to be improved in order to be a good support for case management. The Parliament should therefore work to develop IPEX into a more effective tool for exchanging information between national parliaments. However, it should be mentioned that a digital strategy for IPEX was adopted in 2017 in order to help develop and improve the website. Let us hope that this will also be an improvement. Madam President, I would like The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also notes that several committees point out that negotiations within the EU on legislative proposals are already underway before the deadline for the examination of the proposals for subsidiarity has expired. It is important that the EU institutions respect the time limit for the verification of subsidiarity and that they do not prejudge its outcome. Otherwise, the role of national parliaments in controlling subsidiarity risks losing importance. Finally, Madam President, as the KU has done every year, I would like to send a communication to Parliament's committees on the importance of examining draft legislative acts under subsidiarity. I know it sounds nagging, and we point it out every year. But it is an important part of the legislative process and a right that we should take advantage of. This is the fourth and last time this parliamentary term that I report the follow-up to Parliament's application of the principle of subsidiarity. I will follow this debate and reporting with great interest in the future, but outside Parliament, and I hope to hear about the improvements that will occur at that time.
i-806351f203f86114-710	Madam President, I would like For us members of the Constitutional Committee, it is perhaps easy to talk about subsidiarity principles, proportionality tests, effectiveness, implementing acts, etc. But for many voters, some of these may seem strange and not quite obvious. The EU is an undemocratic, difficult organisation, whose institutions are far away and which, with its typical continental cant language, translated from bureaucratic French and administrative rigidity, is difficult to control by Swedish citizens. It is also with this in mind that, for example, the Treaty of Lisbon came into being. The EU bureaucrats and the powers of the continent want to make themselves as difficult to access and accessible to the citizens of sovereign nations as possible. With politicians such as France's Macron and Germany's Merkel, who want to further push this development, and given that the British have now come to their senses by leaving this monster state, it is now more important than ever that nationalistic democratic parties around Europe see Europe in the seams and try to help voters understand what is happening. That is why, Madam President, I am probably not going to talk much to the House and the politicians in the KU, but try to address the Swedish people and explain what is happening. The foundation of Sweden's membership of the European Union is that we have transferred self-determination rights in a number of areas to the European Union. These areas include the so-called Customs Union, certain competition rules and the common commercial policy. In these areas, we have given the EU the exclusive power to decide what will apply in Sweden and in the other Member States. In other areas, Sweden has not yet completely given up its right to self-determination. For these areas of Union cooperation, where competence is shared between the Union and the Member States, the so-called subsidiarity principle, the subsidiarity principle, applies. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in areas where the EU does not have exclusive competence, the EU should take action, i.e. issue a regulation, only if and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States themselves and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at Union level. Only then will the EU be able to decide what will apply in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats are, as is well known, the only party in the Riksdag that questions the EU for real and believes that after renegotiation we should do as the British and hold a referendum on the possible continuation of membership of the monstrous thing that the EU has unsurprisingly developed into since Sweden in 1994 in a tight economic situation and by a narrow majority decided to pay more than enough money every year to allow others to handle some of our affairs. But as long as we are members, we have to relate to what the European Union actually does. Our principle approach to the principle of subsidiarity is that it is certainly positive that legislation should be made at the lowest possible level of effectiveness, but we also believe that the current system seems to be designed most for show and almost impossible to raise effective objections to the proposals submitted by the European institutions. I'll try to explain how it all works. The European Commission, or, where appropriate, any other proposer, shall submit its draft legislative acts and its amended drafts to national Parliaments for examination. After the drafts have been forwarded to national Parliaments, each national Parliament may submit a so-called "reasoned opinion" to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, stating the reasons why it considers that the present proposal does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of proximity. The national parliaments have eight weeks to submit such an opinion. Each national parliament has two votes, since many Member States have more than one chamber. If at least one third of the total number of votes allocated to national Parliaments believes that a legislative proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, the draft shall be reviewed by the Commission. This is called handing out the yellow card. After the review, the Commission may decide to stick to its proposal, amend it or withdraw it. Instead, if at least a simple majority of the votes of national parliaments have supported critical opinions, an orange card will be distributed. Of course, there is no red card that completely stops the proposal, but here too the Commission can choose to stand by the proposal, change it or withdraw it. The difference here is that if the Commission chooses to remain with the proposal, it shall state in a reasoned opinion why it considers the proposal to be compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The European Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers will then decide whether they consider the proposal to be compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Only if a majority of these EU institutions believe that a proposal from another EU institution does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity does the proposal fall, just as if they were voting against the proposal for any other reason. As you can hear, the system is designed to ensure that the Commission and the European Union get what they want, regardless of what the national Parliament actually thinks, even in the areas of shared competence. And with such high thresholds, short timeframes and little impact, only three so-called yellow cards have also been distributed since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009. Most national parliaments do not even bother to examine all the proposals that come, which, of course, makes it even more difficult to get to the levels necessary for the Commission to at least look at the proposal again. However, the Swedish Parliament tries to do its part by examining all the drafts, however useless it may seem. It is therefore against this background that the KU conducts a follow-up every year on how the Riksdag conducts its subsidiarity tests. The question then goes to all parliamentary committees, after which the KU then compiles the result. Unfortunately, the picture that paints itself is rather bleak. For example, the Committee on Civil Liberties has been able to conclude that the Commission has repeatedly considered itself to have so-called exclusive competence in areas of shared competence and not even submitted a proposal for review, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. Several committees also point out that the Commission is increasingly putting forward proposals for regulations instead of directives, which in itself means that the room for manoeuvre to adapt EU legislation to the different constitutional conditions in each Member State is being reduced. A regulation becomes applicable law in all Member States, while a directive is transformed into Swedish law. The government, through its channels and representatives, should therefore work to ensure that the institutions do not over-exploit their ability to use regulations. We are also, of course, critical of the fact that the Commission did not make any changes to its proposal either because of the yellow card actually issued last year. The parliaments of the Member States also have the opportunity to carry out a proportionality test of the proposal in the context of the subsidiarity test. This means, in brief, that Parliament is examining whether the proposal is such as to interfere with national self-government that it does not justify the action that the Union wants to achieve with the proposal. The Parliament, as we heard earlier, gave a total of 13 reasoned opinions in 2016, of which twelve in response to proposals from the Commission. In addition, the Parliament examined on its own initiative a proposal from the European Parliament which was submitted to Parliament but where there was no notification that the proposal was submitted for a subsidiarity review. We note that Parliament's committees have objected to the proportionality of at least nine, or about 75 per cent of these proposals, which may be considered extremely remarkable and speak with strength because there is both a desire for and a need to allow the proportionality test to take a much more prominent role when subsidiarity tests are carried out in the future. Furthermore, the Committee on Taxation has made a number of critical comments on the subsidiarity tests carried out by the committee in 2016, also here in some 75% of the drafts that the committee has had to examine. The committee believes, among other things, that there have been shortcomings in the basis of the proposals and that in some cases there were no impact assessments. The Swedish Democrats believe that the government should work vigorously to ensure that the EU institutions provide complete evidence to the national parliaments. Nevertheless, after drawing this rather bleak picture, I would like to say that it is positive that every year Members of Parliament are increasingly committed to critically examining the proposals that the European Union is sending to us. The Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that representatives of other parties in the Riksdag are also concerned about the Swedish right of self-determination and how it contributes to ensuring that we do not lose more independence to the European Union in any case. We broadly agree with the conclusions of our colleagues in the committee, namely that it is extremely important that the European institutions respect the already short deadlines for the trials of national parliaments and do not start negotiations and changes to the proposals submitted before the deadline for the subsidiarity tests has expired. The Member States' parliaments can also improve by improving communication with each other via IPEX and their respective representatives in the EU. In addition, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Finance, which has also carried out the subsidiarity test on purpose and zeal this year and has found, among other things, that the use of so-called implementing acts and delegated acts, that is, giving the Commission more or less carte blanche to fill the legislation at its sole discretion, has increased alarmingly. Finally, it is also for the government to include a well-examined proportionality assessment in its factual memos. Failing this, the government is making it more difficult for committees to carry out appropriate tests. Thank you, Madam President, and I am sorry that I did not respect the deadline!
i-806351f203f86114-733	Madam President, I would like For more than 200 years, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee has been examining various aspects of how government power is exercised in our country. The KU is one of the tools that Parliament has to exercise its control over the government. The KU checks whether the government complies with the different rules and principles that apply to government work. In fact, the control of government is considerably older than both democracy and parliamentarism. The KU was established in 1809, i.e. more than 100 years before Sweden became a full democracy with universal and equal suffrage for both women and men and even more than 100 years before parliamentarism had its breakthrough in our country. The thought that power needs to be balanced and that power without control risks leading to abuse of power and arbitrariness grew before it became obvious that public power should derive its legitimacy from the entire population. At the same time, it is seen as a step towards democratisation that a right was introduced 200 years ago for the Riksdag to review the government protocols and also as a step towards parliamentarism that the government was thus, in a sense, accountable to the Riksdag for its actions. Sweden is now a democracy in which the government and public administration are under clear control. This control is aimed at combating the abuse of power and discretion and at promoting transparency, good government work and good administration. The review carried out by the KU has been carried out in different ways over the years, but since the 1990s it is common practice that the KU submits two review reports each year to the Riksdag, one for the so-called autumn review and one for the spring review. What we are now debating is the report on the autumn review of 2017. What the KU is mainly associated with is probably the spring review, which is based on the review of individual ministers based on notifications from the members of the Riksdag. However, the KU and its office put so much effort into the autumn review. I would like to take this opportunity to extend warm thanks to the members of the committee for their good cooperation in this examination and also to thank the KU's Office, headed by Head of Office Peder Nielsen, for its hard and skilful work during the examination. Every year, the autumn review revolves around half a dozen subjects selected by the KU on its own initiative. It is about studying and following up work processes within the government and in the Government Office. As in the spring review, the focus is not on whether a minister deserves criticism or not, but on analysing and seeing whether different types of case are dealt with in a satisfactory constitutional way and on making recommendations for the future so that government work can develop. I would like to briefly present some of the subjects that have been dealt with in the current review. In the review of the government protocols, which are thus truly part of the KU's core activities and have been conducted for more than two centuries, the KU points out that the time between the coming out of the pressure of a law or other constitution and its entry into force should normally be at least four weeks and only in exceptional cases shorter than two weeks. The aim is for citizens to know in good time what they have to comply with. The KU notes that there are certain deviations from these deadlines, and the committee stresses that the government should ensure that the deadlines are maintained. The committee also draws attention to some group or groups of administrative matters dealt with by the government each year in its review. In this year's review, the committee again points out that long processing times are unsatisfactory, especially if there is no justification for the delay in processing. The committee also recalls the need for documentation on the various procedural measures, so that it will be possible to see what has happened afterwards. There are certain shortcomings there. KU has also examined whether the use of confidentiality markings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has changed over time. This matter became the most dramatic in this autumn's review, as the KU discovered that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had lost several hundred documents on the Swedish campaign for a seat in the UN Security Council. However, my party friend Annicka Engblom will comment on this matter in more detail, so I will say no more about it. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen, JO, make a large number of decisions each year, usually after complaints from the public against any authority. In some of the decisions, where the JO criticises an official or an authority, there are also more general observations about shortcomings in legislation or government governance. Then the JO can draw the government's attention to the shortcomings. The KU regularly follows up on the extent to which something really happens in the Government Office after the JO has paid attention to a deficiency. The review shows that 46 out of 58 cases have been taken – so there is a large majority. That's a good thing. However, different departments seem to have slightly different routines. The KU stresses that it is important that all departments take careful account of the views of the JO. The committee reviews every two years how the government uses its power of appointment, i.e. its right to appoint Heads of Government, such as Directors-General and Ambassadors. The KU examines to what extent the appointed heads of government have political backgrounds, what the distribution between women and men looks like and to what extent the government has used such open recruitment procedures as were introduced about ten years ago by the alliance government. The Alliance government had the ambition to reduce the number of government leaders with party political backgrounds. This was the case, and so it has continued to be even after the change of government in 2014. If we ignore the ambassadors and look at the other heads of government, we can see that in the period 2001 to the turn of the government in 2006, 27 % of the appointed Heads of Government had a party political background. Thereafter and until the next change of government in 2014, the share was 17 per cent. During this term of office, the proportion has been 16%. The trend break that came with the alliance government thus seems to have become permanent, which is a positive thing. The proportion of women among those appointed as heads of government in Sweden has increased clearly. Since the turn of the government in 2006, this proportion is just under 50 percent instead of, as before, about or just under 40 percent. Since the last turn of government in 2014, the proportion of women has fallen slightly, to 44 per cent. However, this reduction is fully explained by the appointments of principals, which are prepared by the higher education institutions. The proportion of open recruitments for the body of positions where the government intends to apply open recruitment procedures is high and amounts to over 90 per cent from 2011 onwards. Thus, even in this case, the reforms of the alliance government have become permanent. This means that the services in question are advertised so that anyone can apply for them. This compares with what it was like before 2006, when the government hand-picked heads of agencies without any public application procedure. The committee has also examined the government's handling of informal trialogues in the EU, so-called trilogues, when the European Commission, the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament negotiate compromises on various legislative proposals. A large majority of recent legislative acts have been the subject of tripartite negotiations. There is a risk that Member States' transparency and accountability will be weakened by the way in which the negotiations are conducted. There is a need for greater transparency in the trilogues. And a prerequisite for maintaining Parliament's influence over Sweden's actions in the EU is that the government informs and consults with the Riksdag, if necessary, during ongoing tripartite negotiations. It has emerged from the committee's scrutiny that information and consultation are not usually lost during ongoing negotiations. The committee does not have a basis here for saying that information and consultation should have occurred to a greater extent, but wishes to stress that procedures within the Government Office for consultation with the Riksdag must be adapted to the actual decision-making process in the EU, so that the Riksdag can be informed and influence even when matters are the subject of trilogues. In addition, KU has reviewed, among other things, the use of transparency councils and government boards in the authority management work. We've been looking into the investigation and some other issue. But I will refrain from commenting on that further.
i-806351f203f86114-752	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has examined the performance of the duties of the ministers and the handling of government matters in a number of areas. I will comment on a minor part of this review, and other Social Democrats will comment on other parts. To begin with, I would like to stress that a combined impression from this review, as from previous such reviews, is that the Swedish social machinery works well and is effective. This is due to a long administrative tradition with roots in people such as Gustav Vasa, Karl XI and Gunnar Sträng, also with guard dogs such as the Ombudsman for Justice and the Chancellor for Justice. This is not something self-evident, but an inheritance that every generation has to cherish. It is particularly important in a time when populists want to suspect the functioning of society and exploit the slightest flaw. However, there are always areas where mistakes have been made and other areas where changes need to be made. That is why this annual review is important. Citizens should be able to feel confident that everything is being done to maintain order, efficiency and legal certainty in the state apparatus. One area that has been examined is the government's management of government boards and transparency councils. The choice of form of control is important. It is good that the Government Office has developed criteria for choosing form, so that this does not happen more or less randomly. One issue that has been touched on is the importance of placing in a safety class in order for persons elected to the Board to be able to have sufficient transparency in the operations in order to carry out their duties. It is important to monitor the development of gender composition in state appointments, so that this does not go in the wrong direction. The report shows that transparency councils and boards have a good gender balance. Later in the debate, other party friends will supplement our approach to other parts of the report.
i-806351f203f86114-760	Madam President, I would like Hans Ekström was exemplaryly brief in his speech. Unfortunately, I would like to warn you right now that I may be running over time by a minute or two. Summer and autumn have been pretty tough days for the Constitutional Committee. Whether this is due to extraordinary diligence from us Members and our fantastic office or to the government's lack of the same is, of course, up to the electorate to decide. It is clear that the audit of the Swedish Transport Agency has taken up a lot of time. In between, however, we have found time for the KU's great autumn review. If this is a lot to say. My predecessors have spoken about this, but I still have some that I would like to express. I will start by talking about comitology. The committee system is of course owned by the government, which has to rule the kingdom. However, the government is accountable to the Riksdag, which is why the KU has looked closely at this. As a basis, KU has had access to investigations that the government has established between 1989 and 2015. We have examined the choice of form of investigation, the existence of parliamentary elements, comitology directives and other matters relating to comitology. If the main purpose is to collect and process expert knowledge, a particular investigator may be preferable. The same applies if the main purpose is to develop or implement government policies. A special investigator is also appropriate if the mission appears to be limited or is of a very technical nature. The use of this form of investigation has increased over time since the turn of the millennium. If it is the case that the government wishes to have an issue comprehensively highlighted and at the same time have a broader forum for different stakeholders, a committee may instead be preferable. Overall, the proportion of investigations involving parliamentary elements has decreased since the 1990s. Instead, another type has increased, namely the group of special investigators in whose investigation there has been some kind of parliamentary element, such as a parliamentary reference group. There is therefore reason to recall, Madam President, what the committee came up with last autumn: if a broad political base is the main objective, a parliamentary committee may be preferable. In order to ensure that the parliamentary element of an investigation is appropriate, the Constitutional Committee believes that it is important that the purpose of the parliamentary element is carefully considered before the government takes a position on the form of the investigation. The KU has also wanted to emphasise that it should always be possible to express itself in the comitology directives if the government's view is that an investigation should have some kind of parliamentary element. If a parliamentary committee has been elected to find a forum for compromises and consensus on political issues, the committee believes that there is also a reason for giving it greater room for manoeuvre, which unfortunately does not always prove to be the case. An important issue is the composition of the Committee. It is clear that about 10 % and 25 % of the special investigators and the committee chairmen respectively have had a political background and that more than 60 % of the committees have had members with a political background. This is something that we in the Swedish Democrats have been particularly critical of. However, we share the committee's view that it may be relevant when it is part of an investigation mission to present proposals that strike a balance between different interests where political values play an important or absolutely crucial role. The most important thing in terms of background is that the appointed person has the relevant competence for the mission. The proportion of investigations assisted by experts and experts has not varied significantly during the period studied. However, the background is varied, and we have seen an increasing proportion of officials in the Government Office. Another issue under consideration by the KU is that of the investigation period. Investigations with the task of investigating horizontal and comprehensive issues in different matters typically require a longer investigation period. The same is also true when a parliamentary committee seeks to reach a broad and long-term political agreement. Finally, the audit shows that relatively few of the identified investigative missions have concerned the implementation of EU legal acts. One explanation for this may be that investigations aimed at implementing EU acts are often handled within the Government Office or by the relevant authority. I think, Madam President, that it can be summed up as follows: properly used is an investigation a good tool for the development of good practice. Misused, unfortunately, the investigation will be nothing more than an order job from the government. Madam President, I would like KU has also examined government boards and transparency councils. For administrative authorities under the Government, there is a special regulation, the Authority Regulation, which regulates the activities, responsibilities, delegation chain and more. The Authority Regulation governs three forms of governance: a Council Authority, a Board Authority and a Board Authority. If the Government has decided that there should be a Transparency Council at the Authority, the Council shall exercise transparency in its activities and advise the Head of Authority. The review now being carried out by the Constitutional Committee includes the appointment of the members of the Boards and the Transparency Councils. Security clearance of members and the composition of the Boards and Councils are also included. In addition, during the review, the committee has examined the criteria used by the government when deciding whether an authority should have a board of directors or a transparency council. We agree with the majority in committee as a whole, but we do not think that the committee is reaching all the way through on this issue. We note that Statskontoret has stated in its report on the governance of the agencies that there has been some minor progress in the application of the forms of management. As long as there are no special reasons, the form of unanimity is generally chosen, and as long as no problems arise, the form of management is not reviewed either. The report states that the reasons for establishing a Transparency Council are often rather unclear, as are the notions of what transparency advice should actually do. Furthermore, it is argued that both the head of authority and the board of directors are the government's way into the authority and also the one for which responsibility is required. Against this background, the Swedish Democrats want to point out that there are in fact three different types of authorities: the unanimous authority, the board authority and the board authority. As the committee notes, the choice of governance for authorities is a strategic governance issue for the government. In our view, the fact that there are indications then that there has been a lack of precision in the choice of authority is rather unfortunate. Every time the question of the choice of an authority's management is raised, the government must make a careful assessment based on the tasks and circumstances of the individual authority. If the choice takes place in a routine manner, one can question why there should be three different forms of government. Where the Transparency Council is appointed, the reasons for this must be clear. We would also like to point out the responsibilities of the administrative board in cases where the authority is led by such a body. According to the Authority Regulation, the Authority's management is accountable to the Government for its activities and must ensure that it is carried out effectively and in accordance with applicable law. Against this very background, it can of course be questioned that the government's way into the authorities is only the head of authority and that the boards are not used in practice as intended. The government must have contact with the administrative boards and provide the members of the board with the information and tools needed by those who govern the authorities to fulfil their duties in full. Madam President, I would like I will now also speak quickly about the power of appointment. For a long time – I believe it has been since 1809 – the Constitution has stipulated that decisions on state employment should only be taken into account in terms of merit and skill. This has been interpreted a little differently over time, so even now. The provision has also been subject to a regular review by the KU, and luckily so. Since 2003, the committee reviews every other Parliamentary meeting the government's exercise of the appointing authority in the framework of the general autumn review. This was done by 2015, and this autumn it was time for review again. One area that the committee is examining, like various forms of investigation, is the question of political background. The KU submits in the past that the fact that a person has a political background should not be disqualifying in the appointment as long as only factual grounds such as merit and skill are applied to the appointment. Political experience can be a factual basis to pay attention to and may then be valued together with other experiences. What is relevant in such cases is not the political party in which the person appointed has his or her background, but the fact that he or she has had certain tasks in a political or public environment and performed them in such a way that it is a merit for the post to be filled. Here the government has obviously, and on a number of occasions, completely failed. There are many examples of this. It can be noted that the proportion of open recruitments over time has increased from around 70 per cent in the period 2007-2009 to over 90 per cent from 2011 onwards, something that the KU and the Swedish Democrats are positive about. We agree with the broad lines of the committee's position, since it has chosen to examine the power of appointment at an overall quantitative level, and therefore choose not to reserve us. We see, however, that in future reviews of the appointing authority, the committee is going through in a more in-depth manner the extent to which the government has really lived up to the government's demand that it is precisely factual grounds such as merit and skill that should form the basis for recruitment. In the 2017 budget bill, the government states that some 300 heads of government have been recruited from 2007. Of these, 50 have left their assignment early, transferred or not offered continued employment after the first period of six years. Unfortunately, in the long run, it risks leading to a problem of management supplies if not enough people accumulate knowledge and experience that will allow them to be transferred to larger authorities. Therefore, in the current review, we would like to emphasise in particular the importance of the Government undertaking regular monitoring and evaluation of both open recruitment procedures, including external recruitment support, as well as transfers of agency managers. With regard to external recruitment support, it is essential that there is a clear link between the objectives set by the government and the subsequent evaluation. We believe that there is a lack of clarity as to the extent to which external recruitment support should be used. A report from the Expert Group on Studies in Public Economy published in 2003 looked at the appointments and accountability of Directors-General. More than half of the ministers consulted could recall that the appointment of a Director-General was disappointing. Among these, half had been disappointed once and in the rest more than once. Dissatisfaction with Directors-General was often expressed for lack of leadership, such as the inability to push through certain changes, staff policy problems and cooperation problems. Within the framework of a follow-up of a transfer decision, the Swedish Democrats would therefore welcome a careful evaluation of how well the Heads of Government have succeeded in their mission and how far it is included in the assessment for possible new appointments or re-assignments.
i-806351f203f86114-797	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Constitutional Committee's report 10, the examination of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters or, as is usually said, the autumn examination. It is the annual and more administrative review, unlike the spring review, which is more political when the ministers are examined after we Members have made notifications that there is reason to investigate. In the administrative review, the KU follows up various routines in the government. We usually come up with some rose, some rice and some recommendations. It is not as loud as in the spring but after all important to provide support for improved work at the Government Office. We often criticise long processing times, so also this time. It is unsatisfactory when the length of proceedings is too long. At the same time, the basis for the decision must be sufficient so that decisions are not taken on grounds that are not safe. The KU also recalls the need for documentation. In a special review, the KU has looked at how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has handled confidentiality markings. There was a suspicion that a little more than necessary is being kept secret, and it has been investigated. However, the findings of the review do not justify the assessment that the use of confidentiality markings in the examined categories has increased over time. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own privacy markings were designed in accordance with the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. However, the KU has found that a larger number of documents have not been found in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and this is criticised. In the Committee's view, it is totally unacceptable that actions could have been carried out to such an extent. An authority must have such procedures for its document and case management that the risk of a document or case being lost is minimal. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has informed that measures have been taken to improve the procedures for document management. But here we can imagine that we will have reason to come back to see that it is done sufficiently. Madam President, I would like This year, as part of the follow-up, we have told the Parliamentary Ombudsmen in their annual report that they have pointed out to the Government Office. On the part of the KU, we believe that the Ministry can be better at reporting back what has been done in connection with the submissions from the JO. The report states that there can be expected to be a reason for certain decisions being passed on by the JO, which is why there is reason for these too to be taken into account in the departments and possibly to be used as a basis for action by the government. We have also continued to examine comitology. The investigations carried out by the government through comitology directives in 1989, 1992, 1999, 2007, 2011 and 2015 have been included in the review. Among other things, the choice of investigative form has been studied, whether it has been a special investigator or a committee, the existence of parliamentary elements, the background of the investigator or committee chairman and the composition of the investigation in general. The proportion of special investigators has varied over time and has also increased over time. According to the committee, a special investigator may be better if the mandate is limited or has a more technical character. If the aim is to collect and process expert knowledge, a particular investigator may also be preferable and if the purpose is solely to develop or implement government policies. Circumstances that instead speak for a committee may be that the government wants to get the know-how on a particular issue that exists in different parts of society or get a comprehensive lighting of issues. A committee with people from different parties or interest groups can help to dissolve knots at an early stage. Overall, the proportion of investigations involving parliamentary elements has decreased since the 1990s. Few of the investigations have been commissioned to develop new knowledge. The committee stresses that it may be useful, from time to time and if necessary, to provide scope for generating new knowledge. According to the review, relatively few investigations have had completely open and generally formulated directives. However, parliamentary committees seem to have had it more often than others. If a parliamentary committee has been elected to find a forum for compromises and consensus on political issues, the committee believes that there is also a reason for giving it greater room for manoeuvre. As far as political background is concerned, one in ten of the special investigators had one. Among committee chairmen, this is somewhat more common and can be found at about a quarter. More than 60% of the committees have had members with a political background. Several of the special investigators and committee chairmen have been lawyers or Directors-General. In the committee's view, the key factor is that the person appointed has a competence that is appropriate. Political experience can be an advantage when it is included in an investigation mission to present proposals that strike a balance between different interests where political values play a major role. The investigation period itself has varied some during the period studied. In 2015, it increased slightly. Apart from 1989, relatively few investigations have had an investigation period that has been longer than two years. The length of time an investigation takes is a central issue that is closely linked to the purpose of an investigation mission. Another review concerns the government's management of government boards and transparency councils. The committee welcomes the fact that a guide has been drawn up within the Government Office with criteria, and these are a good starting point for the assessment in the selection of the form of management. The committee also notes that the Government intends to carry out development work to clarify how the governance of the authorities should be applied to the governance of the authorities and that the need for further guidance on security clearance is considered in this work. Members of the Board of Directors must have access to all the tasks of the Authority necessary for the performance of their duties. The government should therefore always carefully consider the need to place a position as a member of an administrative board in a safety class. Similarly, as far as the Transparency Councils are concerned, it is important for Members to be able to access all the information necessary for the full implementation of their duties. Even in these cases, the question of the need for rating should always be carefully considered. The committee has re-examined the power of appointment. The proportion of appointed heads of government in Sweden with a political background has been more or less constant since 2006. The committee points out its previous view that political background should not be disqualifying in the appointment as long as it relates only to factual grounds such as merit and skill. The proportion of women appointed is now just under 50%, which is of course pleasing. As far as open recruitment procedures are concerned, the proportion remains high, which is a good thing. The committee welcomes the introduction of open recruitment procedures and stresses that it has brought about important changes, such as the fact that more and other candidates can be brought up to date than when the procedure is more closed. Finally, the committee has examined the government's handling of tripartite meetings in the EU. The negotiations in trilogues have been set up to make the EU's legislative process more efficient, which is necessary. At the same time, Member States' transparency and accountability can be weakened by the way in which the negotiations are conducted. The number of EU legislative acts adopted that are the result of informal trilogue negotiations is very high today. It is necessary to strike a balance between the need for confidential negotiations and the need for transparency.
i-806351f203f86114-818	Madam President, I would like According to the form of government, the Constitutional Committee is to review the official duties of the ministers and the handling of government matters, and when there are reasons for this, but at least once a year, the Committee must inform the Riksdag of what it has found worthwhile during its review. That's where we are right now. I must already apologise for the fact that there may be some repetition of what the previous speaker has said. A replay from previous years is that the committee once again points out that there are too long processing times with the government, while, of course, time has to be weighed against a decision-making basis being complete. However, the requirement for swift and effective administration must be met by the government. The committee also recalls once again the need for documentation to be available so that matters can be followed up and, of course, also afterwards. On the subject of documentation and shortcomings, the committee has examined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The use of confidentiality markings in the examined categories has not increased over time. However, the examination of confidentiality now covers all documents regardless of whether or not the documents have been sent in a protected manner and whether or not they have a classification mark. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, like all departments, should work to meet the requirements of good publicity structure, such as the urgency requirement, and one can really wonder whether this is being done. The review has also discovered that hundreds of documents on the Swedish campaign for a place in the UN Security Council have disappeared. They are gone, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. This, together with recent events, opens up many questions about how the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is led and managed – something that we intend to come back to with vigour during the spring reviews. As regards the government's management of government boards and transparency councils, it is positive that a guidance for management has been developed within the Government Office. We also note that the Government intends to carry out development work for better governance of the authorities. It is also important that the Government continuously monitors the work of the Boards and Transparency Councils as well as that the need for security review and members must always be considered. Of course, it is important to take advantage of the skills of both women and men as well as of people with different backgrounds and experiences. To continue on the theme of diversity and representation of the appointing authority, we can note that the proportion of government managers in Sweden with political background has been more or less constant in modern times. The same applies to managers of the foreign authorities. The committee stresses that political background should at least not be disqualifying in the appointment as long as it is factual grounds such as merit and skill that are assessed. It is then gratifying to see that the proportion of female heads of government and female managers in the foreign authorities has increased significantly and is now around 50%. It is probably the result of the fact that it is precisely merit and skill that underpins the appointments, I think a little loudly and for the Minutes. The KU has also examined the government's handling of tripartite meetings in the EU. The trialogue negotiations were designed to simplify and streamline the EU's legislative process, which is essential if the EU is to function. At the same time, tripartite meetings may weaken Member States' transparency and accountability. The committee therefore shares the European Ombudsman's view on the need for greater transparency. There needs to be a balance between the need for confidential negotiations and transparency. A prerequisite for maintaining Parliament's influence over Sweden's actions in the EU is that the government informs and consults also during ongoing tripartite negotiations. It may be added that the Parliamentary Committee of the European Parliament, which has its last meeting within a week, intends to make proposals on how this work is to take place. It is no secret that the key words in the investigation will be dialogue and transparency. I dare tell the committee.
i-806351f203f86114-832	Madam President, I would like We are talking today about the scrutiny of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters. I do not know for which time in the order I could bring up the individual parts, but I will be content to knock down on a few things that stand out and that are important to lift up. Former colleagues have highlighted the whole in a good way, and we will hear more aspects of this. What I can contribute is possibly to reprimand Mr Rasmus Ling, the Green Party, who happened to say that the spring review of the KU is a political review. It's not. On the contrary, both the autumn review, which deals with the structures of administrative review, and the spring review, in which the KU examines individual ministers, are carried out on the basis of a constitutional basis and not a political assessment. The parties are conducting political reviews of the ministers for and against, and leaders and voters are conducting a political review. The voters, in particular, do this at every election. But the KU doesn't. Let's try not to do a political review. What have we come up with that is more important than otherwise when it comes to the autumn review? First of all, it is done thoroughly. In the spring, the committee will discuss which horizontal administrative and structural areas need to be examined. In agreement, we come to these areas. In the summer, the office begins to collect material, and autumn is essentially devoted to this. There will be a lot of e-mail exchange with the Government Office, and visit if necessary. We obtain the necessary materials, and from this we can see that the various functions work better or worse. Something that stands out a little bit is, as we heard earlier here, that the Foreign Affairs Department's actions are lost without being able to indicate where they have gone, how it has happened or what has been done to ensure that it is not repeated. This is totally unacceptable. I would like to point out that we have used considerable time to see how comitology works, with the various kinds of committees that may exist. There is broad political agreement in committee that a parliamentary committee may be preferable when a broad political base is the main objective. The parliamentary situation in the Riksdag can also be important because such committees allow a minority government to politically anchor proposals before they are submitted to the Riksdag. There has been too much of reference groups where members from different parties who have been in the reference groups have had no real influence on the investigation and may not have been able to add a reservation or a different opinion. The KU does not think that this is enough in cases where there is a need for broad political support.
i-806351f203f86114-840	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (KU10), which is a thick lot of 725 pages. This time it contains nine different issues that we have looked at a little extra. I wanted to highlight two more areas, and those are the decisions of the Ombudsmen of Justice and the Committee. Now many of the committee members have already touched on a lot, but I was going to try to say a little more. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen, commonly referred to as the Ombudsmen of Justice or the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, as we briefly say, are under the supervision of those who carry out public activities in compliance with laws, regulations and other obligations. This is regulated in the Act with instructions for the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, hereinafter referred to as the instruction. The Ombudsmen of Justice conduct their activities through the examination of complaints from the public, as well as through inspections and other inquiries they consider necessary. It is the public who makes a JO report when you think something has gone wrong. It is then the duty of the Ombudsmen to investigate whether it has become wrong and, if so, to hold the responsible authority to account. The committee notes that the examination of the measures taken in response to the petitions and decisions of the Ombudsmen has provided useful information on the results of the Ombudsmen's observations. As the committee had said in the past, the accounts of the measures taken gave reason to point out that the petitions and observations of the Ombudsmen should be an important element in improving legislation and procedures and that this should be kept under constant review. By letter to the Government Office, the committee asked for an account of the measures taken in response to the requests made pursuant to Paragraph 4 of the Instructions and the decisions submitted by the Parliamentary Ombudsman for information. In response, memos drawn up within the Government Office were submitted on 5 October 2017. Responses have been given by the departments now responsible for the issues raised in the petition and the decisions submitted by the JO. Each presentation has a specific number and is easy to follow. This can be found in the letter. The requests are presented in an eight-point table of measures: New or amended regulation has been introduced. The investigation is ongoing. The question has been investigated and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The question is being prepared in the Government Office. The question has been examined and has not led to any specific measures. The decision has not been deemed to give rise to any specific measures. The relevant authority has been provided with resources, assignments and so on. The decision has been sent to the authority for information. In this way it is quite easy to follow and go back and see what has happened and what has been done. The committee notes that the Ombudsmen have made a request under Section 4 of the Act with instructions for the Parliamentary Ombudsmen during the period under review, which has led to changes in the provisions of the Police Act, among other things. Almost all of the decisions submitted for information – 55 out of 58, which I think the President mentioned earlier – concerned matters that were the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice or of the Ministry of Social Affairs, i.e. 28 and 27 decisions respectively. Of these decisions, 1 in the Ministry of Justice and 9 in the Ministry of Social Affairs had been left without action. The other 45 had led to action. Among the decisions submitted by other departments, 1 out of a total of 3 had led to some measure. The examination of the action taken on the petitions and decisions of the Ombudsmen has provided useful information on the results of the Ombudsmen's observations. The committee would like to emphasise here that there can be expected to be a reason for certain decisions being passed on by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, for example, detected shortcomings in legislation. It is therefore appropriate that such decisions should also be taken into account in the departments and, if necessary, be added as a basis for action by the government, in order, among other things, to make it easier for the committee to follow up what the department has done. I would now like to turn to the question of comitology, and a great deal has already been said about this. I would like to focus more on what we in the committee would like to see a little more of, apart from what committee colleagues have said before. The review shows that the data on the composition of the investigations in the Committee reports have varied during the years studied in 1989, 1992 and 1999. As a rule, the titles of investigators, committee presidents, committee members, experts and experts were always given. During the 21st century, there has been a change in the data reported. Sometimes there is no information on the title of an investigator or a committee chairman. It may also be that the titles of the persons who have assisted an investigation are not shown. The review also shows that the accounts in the committee report on the composition of investigations vary very much between the different departments. In the committee's view, it is worth not only the composition of an investigation being shown in the committee report but also that the report is uniform and transparent. The government should consider the principles that will apply in this part of the report in the future. This is something we want to highlight in particular.
i-806351f203f86114-856	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we are proud that we have open access to public documents and that we have a transparent society. But even a nation and authorities may find that there is reason for everything not always to be public. That is why we also have the right, in relation to the Freedom of the Press Regulation, to access public documents, OSL, the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which limits it. In the Constitutional Committee's report 10, there is one passage that we from the committee saw fit to look at a little bit more at based on the idea that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is using its confidentiality markings quite extensively. For someone who has a very great admiration for logistics and archivists – that is, order and order, which it is understood that I do when you look into my office that is far from it – this is a fantastic deep dive into how it works and which is excellently done by our colleagues at the Constitutional Committee's office. What is this about? Well, it's about us looking at whether the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is handling their privacy markings extensively. It turns out that this with confidentiality markings is not as simple as one might think. On the other hand, if a document is classified – i.e. if it is in paper form with a stamp, it is clear which authority, when it has been received and which regulation is applicable – it does not mean that it must be secret in itself. Parts of it may be secret, and it may actually be public, although it has a confidentiality mark. It can also be exactly the opposite, i.e. that a document that does not have a classification mark does not need to be public but can be secret. When we looked at this, it turned out to be a thicket. But even though we as laymen may not be fully aware of this, it is obviously important that an authority such as the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, with all the relations that we have between our various missions, in negotiations with different countries or with individuals and several countries, handle this properly. Madam President, I would like The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has divided its information, these privacy markings, into four protection classes. These have been separated in different networks – a red and a green net – in order to separate the accessibility to it. That is really what this is all about. The green network is what all foreign service employees have access to in their computers, iPads, phones and so on. The red net is more closed precisely because it may contain more of protective information. In the review that we have carried out, we have been able to see that what we relied on, i.e. that the confidentiality markings are widely used, we have had no evidence of. However, the use of the confidentiality markings is general. It then starts from any disclosure of the document, that is to say the request, and whether a document is to be masked in its entirety or in certain parts. Given that in the Freedom of the Press Regulation it is fundamental that there should be an urgent disclosure of documents, it goes without saying that this is a more sluggish matter than if you get more manageable procedures. We also have reason to come back to that. In addition, we have also noted that there have been predominantly more documents handled in the red net than in the green net, to which there may be reason to come back. But the most serious thing when the on-the-spot audit was carried out by our office official was the discovery that there were a number of documents, not so few documents, and that there have been for a very long time. It is, of course, totally unacceptable that acts have simply been lost. We also have reason to go back and check how the documents are handled when they are received. If they enter in an open way but then are classified, there is every reason to suspect that things have been revealed even though they would be classified, i.e. lack of procedures throughout the process of handling documents. So we have a spring review ahead of us where many of these elements will come back. As an old intelligence man, I'm really looking forward to this. Our review suggests that there is a great potential for improvement, and that is of great importance for national security.
i-806351f203f86114-866	Madam President, I would like As has already been mentioned, it is a thorough report that we have produced and dealt with. I would certainly be able to simply exceed my registered speaking time even in this speech, but I will try to dwell on just two dossiers. It is about what we touched on just now, namely the confidentiality of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and about what someone has touched on in the past, that is, the government's handling of trialogues. In the examination of confidentiality markings at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the committee has thus carried out a selection of completed cases at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to investigate the existence of confidentiality markings in these cases and to investigate whether the use of such confidentiality marks has changed over time. The audit has not concerned the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' confidentiality assessments in cases where, for example, the public requests access to documents from the Ministry. The committee has noted that the use of confidentiality markings in the examined categories has not increased over time and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own privacy markings have been designed in accordance with the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. So far everything is really quite good and well, but there are a lot of other things to be objected to when it comes to those actions that have not been found. As has been mentioned, quite a few documents have disappeared and have been lost at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is clear from the material examined that a not insignificant proportion of the documents at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs contain a statement of confidentiality and that foreign secrecy is by far the most common basis of confidentiality in the Ministry's activities. While it has not been possible to investigate the extent to which all lost documents have contained confidential information, in view of the fact that the Ministry regularly handles documents containing confidential information, there is strong reason to believe that documents containing confidential information have also been included in the documents which have been lost. The fact that documents are largely lost in a department is, of course, totally unacceptable, but that, moreover, to a certain extent – we do not know how large – they should be dealing with acts of security-worthy information is, of course, totally unacceptable. In addition, we have also come to the fore that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sometimes keeps parallel systems in its document handling, as proved with the 900 pages of Sweden's campaign work for a place in the UN Security Council that was deliberately hidden away in a separate computer system. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that there are strong reasons to do a broad review of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' document and case management in general as soon as possible. That review should also include a review of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' information and security work – not least in relation to the Department's information classification, which today states that it is the Government's interests rather than the Reich's interests that determine whether or not data are to be considered particularly protective and possibly handled separately or out of public scrutiny. Thus, with this definition, there is a risk that, for example, reports and information on government failures could fall into protection category 1 and be handled separately or separately from ordinary procedures, even if it is information that is legitimate for the public to have access to but could harm the current government. We think that is a very strange order. Madam President, I would like I am going from a powerful player to a few others, namely the so-called EU trilogues and the government's handling of them. An increasing number of EU acts are being decided upon on the basis of agreements on content that have been reached at informal negotiating meetings between the Union's legislators, that is, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers, with the Commission with a so-called mediator. Such negotiating meetings are usually called trilogues or trilogues, and they have come about to streamline the EU's legislative process – for better or for worse. Tripartite meetings or trilogues were envisaged in the Treaty as more or less a last resort in the event of disagreement between the parties concerned, but instead they have become almost ordinary proceedings. Almost all legislative issues are now settled directly through trilogues. Some of these problems have already been heard, and they have also been highlighted by the European Ombudsman, who has carried out a review of the transparency and transparency of the informal trialogues part of the EU legislative process. As has been mentioned, the Ombudsman has stated that the transparency and accountability of the citizens of the Member States of the European Union require them to be informed of both the circumstances and arguments underlying the drafting of the legislative act and the way in which different Members have chosen to vote. As more and more legislative acts are adopted following informal or closed negotiations in trilogues, the need for transparency in this part of the legislative process is also increasing. Furthermore, the alleged so-called efficiencyisation of the EU legislative process can in itself be called into question. It has been noted that the widespread use of tripartite meetings de facto upsets the internal balance of power between the EU institutions in that the European Commission is strengthened at the expense of the representatives of the peoples of Europe. Similarly, the ability of national parliaments to have a real impact on and accountability is weakened by the actions of the governments of the Member States. This may be perceived as effective, not least by the European Commission, but, to say the least, it seems rather problematic from a democratic perspective. Another problem, of course, is that Sweden as a nation is constantly losing its independence to the European Union. The government, acting on the mandate of the Riksdag and thus of the Swedish people, has a responsibility to prevent this. It is also the task of the government to enforce and maintain respect for fundamental Swedish constitutional principles in this context. In the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, the government should therefore work to ensure full transparency in the trilogues, including public agendas, lists of participants, summonses and stenographic records. The Government should of course also work to restrict the use of trilogues and to maintain the Swedish Parliament's influence over Sweden's actions in the EU by informing and consulting the relevant parliamentary bodies also during and during the ongoing tripartite negotiations.
i-806351f203f86114-879	Madam President, I would like In this report, the KU has also examined the question of the government's handling of certain administrative matters, the confidentiality markings of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that several have been at and the government's handling of the EU's tripartite meetings. I will try briefly to get a bit of each piece. The review of the Government's handling of certain administrative cases has covered a total of seven cases which have been examined. The examination of the cases has focused, among other things, on the total processing time, and we have found that in most cases it has been running between four and eight months. However, there is one matter on which we and I have reacted in particular, and it is a matter where it took a year and two months from the date on which the application was submitted until the decision was made. The case concerns the application for consent to subcontract teaching in the school system in sports and health and the request for amended rules. There has been no exchange of letters on the matter other than the application itself and the decision of the government. Nor has any other investigative action been documented or any other documentation revealed. Madam President, I would like Although the government is not an administrative authority in the sense of the Administrative Act, we in the KU have previously stated, and are doing so now, that it is important for the government to comply with the principles expressed by the Administrative Act. This applies in particular to the need for as simple, fast and inexpensive treatment as possible without prejudice to legal certainty. The issue of rapid processing is of central importance to the individual people and also to the authorities. After all, however, it is the individual who is most affected by the delay in handling the case. For a long time having to go and wait uncertainly for an authority decision that may relate to matters of crucial importance to a person's financial or personal circumstances can cause insecurity and personal suffering – and perhaps even financial losses. This is therefore not only a question of service but also, to a large extent, a question of the rule of law of the individual. As the KU has previously pointed out, long processing times in administrative cases are unsatisfactory. The Ministry in this case has, among other things, blamed the complexity and difficulty of the assessment of the case. However, I believe that this is not an excuse to delay the matter in that way. However, we note that the Ministry states that it is actively working on trying to shorten the processing times. And we stress the importance of continuing this work. In addition, the basis for the decision must be sufficient so that decisions are not taken on uncertain grounds. In the case, some parts of the documentation have been completely lacking. There is therefore reason to recall the importance and need for documentation. Madam President, I would like Now we come to the issue of confidentiality markings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Most of the previous speakers have already touched on this. When you get into the debate this late, most of it has already been said, but because it is important things, it does not hurt with a bit of repetition. We have been trying to investigate the existence of confidentiality markings on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for a long time. Initially, as some have done, we can see that the prerequisites for an authority to be able to mark a public document are that it can be assumed that a data may not be disclosed because of confidentiality. It's as simple as that. The fulfilment of this condition does not imply an obligation for the authority to provide the document with a classification mark, but it is up to the authority to determine this. Although a classification mark does not fulfil an independent legal function and has no binding decision on the issue of confidentiality, it is still important for the administrator to know the sensitivity of the documents and the need for careful confidentiality testing when requesting access to the document. I mention this because I would like to point out that you do not always need to mark confidentiality in any case just because you can do it. KU has taken note of this in the past. In a previous case, however, the JO has also stated that the classification mark, even if it is a warning bell, is not a reason to take it safe before the uncertainty and to use the confidentiality mark in a routine way. It is clear from the legislative text that a decision on the classification of a document must be preceded by a review if the document in question can be presumed to contain information covered by the obligation of professional secrecy or not. Madam President, I would like The committee's observations, as has been explained in the past, do not provide the basis for the assessment that the use of confidentiality marks in cases at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in the examined categories has generally increased over time. The increase over time observed in the audited material refers to the proportion of classified documents that have been handled in the red network compared to the documents that have previously been handled as crypto. The committee also notes in the review that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' own classification markings in the audited material were designed in accordance with the provisions of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. As far as the other parts of the review are concerned, I agree with the view expressed earlier, particularly by Tina Acketoft and Annicka Engblom. This concerns the confidentiality tests, which were also examined, and the acts that have been lost, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. Questions have also been raised about document and case management and information and cyber security work. However, these questions have reason to come back to the KU. I am therefore not going to touch them any closer. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention that we have examined the government's handling of tripartite meetings in Europe. The negotiations in trilogues have been launched, we say in the KU, in order to make the EU's legislative process more efficient. It is necessary, according to the committee. At the same time, Member States' transparency and accountability can be weakened by the way in which the negotiations are conducted. There we have highlighted the importance of greater transparency and the fact that national parliaments must have real means of exercising control over how each country's government acts in the EU legislative process. The previous speaker has also touched on other aspects of this. The results of the work of the European Parliament Committee – several of us who are present in this House are part of that committee – will be reported soon. We hope that it can provide valuable insights into this development and cooperation.
i-806351f203f86114-899	Madam President, I would like Several speakers have been involved in the appointment policy, which is important for an open and democratic society. The committee is pleased and pleased that the government continues to work with open recruitment and with a clear aim for better gender equality in senior positions. Being a manager also means being a good leader. Merit and skill are, according to the government form, the basis for obtaining such a high position within the state as we have reviewed. In the 2017 budget bill, the government itself described the problem of 17 per cent having given up their position prematurely. One possible explanation is that the open recruitment process has led to several executive positions without having extensive experience of government or public organisation. This in turn may have meant that the work simply did not suit those people. There can certainly be merit and skill. It may be other reasons that determine. There are very high demands, from the public to the complexity of governance, in our common sector. It is therefore a good thing that the unit for chief recruitment and state employer policy started in autumn 2015. It is an important centre of competence for governance and management issues, different competences and skills. It should also be an important source of exchange of experience and knowledge, leading to relocations and closures taking place in an efficient but dignified way for both the employer and the individual. To the questions put by the committee, we have been given the answer that each individual dossier is based on its own circumstances, but that all are preceded by in-depth talks. There should therefore be good opportunities for the future to learn from the experience gained so far. That is also what the committee says in our opinion. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that it is gratifying that much better gender equality has now been achieved also within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to the reports that the committee has received. We are, of course, in favour of the committee's position.
