i-b54c184bdc45f836-3	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! We agree that the situation in Syria is terrible and that we must do everything to ensure that civilians can breathe from the horrors of war. It is from this point of view that we are putting every effort into promoting a ceasefire, in support of the UN-led political process and in helping to improve the humanitarian situation. The government has acted resolutely ever since the start of Turkey's Operation Olive Branch in Afrin Province. We have raised this issue with Turkish representatives on a number of occasions and at different levels. Sweden has been active in multilateral fora in the UN and the EU. We have also paid attention to the international legal dimension of Turkey's actions. Both in Stockholm and Ankara, Sweden has stated to Turkish representatives that the demands for ceasefire and humanitarian access in Security Council Resolution 2401 cover the whole of Syria, including Afrin. We have also stressed the importance of immediate de-escalation, respect for international law and the protection of civilians. Although Turkey can refer to security interests, what is happening in Afrin is unacceptable. There is evidence of looting and people being forced to flee. We condemn this action, which affects civilians. All States have a responsibility to comply with Security Council Resolution 2401. Sweden has also pushed the issue in the Security Councilcontext. On 19 March, a meeting of Security Council members took place with the participation of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Prince Zeid Zeid al-al-Hussein, who reported terrible violations of human rights committed in Syria. From the Swedish side, we expressed our deep concern about the situation of civilians in Afrin. Tomorrow, 27 March, Syria is back on the agenda of the UN Security Council. We will then have the opportunity to express our view of the situation in Afrin once again. In addition, we are holding talks with other members of the Security Council on how the Council must act in view of the terrible situation in Syria, including Afrin. Of course, we have also raised the situation in the EU context. I did this last time in the Foreign Affairs Council. It is when we act united within the European Union that we can have the strongest impact. At last week's European Council, Member States agreed that at today's EU summit with Turkey, the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission would raise the issue of Afrin with President Erdo中an. We then expect to inculcate that compliance with Resolution 2401 on ceasefire and humanitarian access in Syria also includes Turkey's military operation. While clearly expressing our criticism, our dialogue with Turkey must continue, both bilaterally and through the European Union. The isolation of Turkey does not benefit the Kurds, the situation in Syria or the human rights defenders, journalists and opposition representatives in Turkey who put their hopes in the outside world. It is through conversation and dialogue that we create opportunities for influence.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-12	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answers and for condemning what is happening. To some extent, the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered what I asked about in the interpellation. However, the main issue, which we in the Left Party have raised several times, is whether she believes that the government has done enough to make Turkey act differently. We in the Left Party believe that this is not the case. Turkish forces have now taken control of Aphrin in northern Syria. The Turkish aggression Operation olive branch has been going on for more than two months, and in recent days Turkish ground forces have entered the city. The offensive is a military attack on the entire Kurdish people, and the humanitarian situation is alarming, to say the least. The air bombings have knocked out the electricity and water supply, and at least 150 000 people have fled only in the last week. If the situation escalates further, as Staffan de Mistura said, when he reported to the Security Council on 16 March, the risk of genocide is imminent. After the massacre in Srebrenica, we promised each other that something like this would never happen again. However, as the outside world is now silent, Turkey obviously sees it as a silent admission. It is clear that what the EU and the UN have done so far has in no way led Mr Erdo中an to respect neither international law, democratic principles nor human rights. Today, the European Parliament voted on a resolution on Syria. The resolution is an important position, although one might wish for more. At the same time, we see a certain reluctance on the part of the European Union to really act to stop the attacks. Although it rightly condemns the attacks in Ghouta, it only dares to express concern about the escalation of violence in Afrin. For his part, Mr Erdo中an was very quick to dismiss the resolution and felt that everything the European Parliament said on the subject would go through one ear and out the other. The goal of Turkey's attacks is to crush the autonomy of northern Syria and destroy YPG and YPJ, which played a crucial role in the fight against IS/ Daish. With Mr Erdo中an's rhetoric, those who have contributed to stabilising northern Syria and who are planning to go to open and free elections in a democratic spirit are being treated as terrorists. As a thank you for their celebrated resistance, they are met with bombs and repression. But not only is the North-Syrian Alliance now being forced to defend itself against Turkey, the attacks also mean having to retreat in the fight against IS/ Daish. Turkey is thus giving new leeway to what is left of the terrorists in IS/ Daish. Turkey has one of NATO's largest armies, and unless the outside world acts forcefully, it will use its military muscles to destroy the whole of Afrin. To date, Ankara has shown that it feels free to act. Only a strong international reaction can prevent genocide in Afrin. Last Saturday I came home from one of the trips that Parliament organises for us Members so that we can deepen our knowledge of the UN. On the spot, I was able to follow in the Security Council's room when an initial account of 2401 was discussed. I would like to take this opportunity to mention that Sweden, together with Kuwait, has done a fantastic job with the resolution, because it focuses not only on Ghouta but on the whole of Syria. Therefore, the outside world has every opportunity to also criticise what Turkey is doing. Even Russia has signed the resolution, so it is not a small achievement that Sweden and Kuwait have done as a pen holder.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-23	Mr President, I would like to I think we must constantly ask ourselves this question: have we done enough? What else can we do? As long as we see the suffering and all the abuse that is taking place throughout Syria, but also now that we are discussing Aphrin, we have to ask ourselves: What else can we do? We are busy every day at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asking: How can we lead the question further? I didn't hear any suggestions as to exactly what we can do. We must act in the long term to create the conditions for peace and reconciliation in Syria. A peaceful political solution in the country is what we want. We have no military means of power. We can't go in with bombs, planes or anything else. That is not the solution we advocate, but we advocate a political solution. That is why we must work both in the European Union and in the United Nations. At the moment, the way forward is what we have worked both efficiently and hard, I would say, to achieve, with the cease-fire resolution. We mean that as a first step. Right now it is a matter of saving lives and relieving distress by means of the resolution. As Yasmine Posio Nilsson knows and has heard, the implementation is quite poor. Instead, more abuse and military action have been taken to protect it. But we continue to operate bilaterally, through both the EU and the UN, for a political solution, a country-wide ceasefire and full humanitarian access. So far, there have been only a few places in Syria, but that is quite inadequate. Of course, we also support the tireless Staffan de Mistura, who is the representative of the United Nations for Syria. He last reported at our Foreign Minister's meeting that he has to fight a sort of inexorable military attack plan that, so to speak, is still rolling. Turkey has invoked various reasons for intervening militarily in northern Syria. Among other things, they have referred to the right to self-defence in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter. However, this right of self-defence in the UN Charter is accompanied by a number of conditions. One such condition is that violence should be necessary and proportionate and that there should be clear and legally established requirements. In the light of what we know, our assessment is that Turkey's actions towards the Turkish group YPG cannot be justified by a reference to self-defence rights. It is important to say that we do not remain silent; we do not. We have indeed spoken out, and we are acting in international relations. Moreover, in both national and regional terms, it is very worrying that Turkey's relations with the Kurds continue to deteriorate. We believe that a resumption of the peace process would have positive consequences also in Syria and in the region as a whole. It must continue to be argued that this would be the way forward, not the violence.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-30	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank Minister Wallström for her reply. But I would like to drill deeper into the flatness that we in the Left Party think the world is showing against Turkey and Erdo an. As I have mentioned before, I was present in the Security Council's room when Secretary-General Guterres submitted a report in which most of the emphasis was on the situation in Ghouta. In a short passage, Turkey's attacks on Afrin were also raised. What was good was that Guterres believed that the UN and its envoys are doing everything they could to bring all those involved to the table to discuss and implement Resolution 2401. Kuwait also spoke mostly about Ghouta. What was good in this speech was that Turkey was also mentioned as a party, which is called upon to double its efforts to adopt and comply with Resolution 2401. The other countries focused most on Russia and to some extent on Syria. I believe that precisely this invisibility of Turkey's actions means that Mr Erdo has the courage to continue his aggression against the Kurds in Afrin. And just a few days after this meeting, Turkey took control of the city. In previous interpellation debates, we in the Left Party have highlighted the reasons we believe are behind the reluctance of the outside world to act against Turkey. One is that Turkey is a NATO country, perhaps the second most important NATO country purely militarily. It is no coincidence that no Swedish NATO supporter is involved in this debate. The silence of the bourgeois side continues to prevail. Those who are keen to talk about combating terrorism shine with their absence in terms of protecting and standing up for those who, with their lives as an effort, have fought IS/ Daish. Another is that Turkey is today being paid by the EU to keep refugees in Turkey. The blackmail situation that has now been put in place when Erdo is the one that decides whether or not refugees come to the EU has limited the EU's room for manoeuvre. We in the Left Party have, on numerous occasions, pointed out this situation and have also exercised that we should end with the silent consent of all the billions of Europeans to pay to Turkey. We have repeatedly demonstrated the escalation of violence against dissidents. The most important opposition party HDP is about to be crushed. There are 5 000 supporters, including the party leaders, who are imprisoned for talking about a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question. In a short time, more than 500 people have been imprisoned for showing support for Afrin and criticising Turkey. One of the great advantages of democracy, freedom of expression, is thus so weak in Turkey that a tweet in which someone questions Turkey's bombings in Afrin can have this person imprisoned. During the last interpellation debate on Afrin about a month ago, Margot Wallström pointed out that we in Sweden are doing a lot of things, especially when this is debated so often here. I would just like to remind you that the reason why this is so often debated is that we in the Left Party are highlighting the subject of debate. We have done this because we have seen what signals the silent concessions have sent and that Turkey has continued to escalate its violence all the time. Every time we have asked for clearer condemnation and for EU countries to stop paying Turkey such enormous sums of money so that they do not have to assume their humanitarian responsibilities with regard to the right of asylum. Each time we have been given a response that the government is doing so much, that it will have an effect and that the money has gone to the refugees. Yet Turkey has escalated the violence and taken Aphrin. The other day, information came that the money that would go to the refugees would also go to build the wall on the border with Syria. I therefore wonder whether Foreign Minister Wallström really believes that what the government has done has had an effect.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-38	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It goes without saying that it does not just depend on what Sweden does. I think that we can stand up for all that we do also in terms of contacts with, not least, the opposition and all those who are fighting for human rights in Turkey. That is where our money goes – to support oppositionists and those who really need our encouragement. I do not know whether the Left Party's conclusion is that we should completely close our contacts with Turkey and withdraw this money. However, it will affect first and foremost those who are currently in need of our support and assistance, and not to close the door to Turkey. We need to continue to have this contact and be able to speak directly to Turkey and have a dialogue. The meeting that begins tonight in Varna is important in order to be able to point this out and to be able to reason directly and express criticism of Turkey. The important instrument that the EU has set up is money that goes mainly to UN agencies and to refugees to improve their situation. Turkey has received 3.4 million Syrians who have been driven on the run because of the war. In fact, Turkey deserves recognition for this. You have to be able to distinguish between these things. We must constantly ensure that our money goes to the right things. If this does not happen, we must ensure that it is corrected. What we do in general is about humanitarian action. There we are a very big player. We support a humanitarian fund of SEK 25 million for cross-border humanitarian operations from Turkey into Syria, including Afrin. As far as medical assistance is concerned, we give a sum of SEK 35 million to the World Health Organisation. The second is via Sida. Sida is also prepared to make payments quickly through its crisis mechanism. I simply believe that all these different tools must be used at the same time. But we alone will not be able to end the war in Syria. We must act together with other EU countries and the UN and continue this way forward. I do not think we have been silent or can be said to have belonged to those who have not acted. But we can all see that it is not enough. Russia has a crucial role to play. It is also they who decide whether there can be air attacks and other things, and it is with Russia's acceptance that these attacks are being carried out. Russia's role in what is happening in Syria cannot therefore be ignored. It is therefore very important that the Security Council continues to keep this at the top of its agenda. Now this war has gone on longer than World War II, and the distress and suffering that this war has created is almost incomprehensiblely great. We also continue to work with Turkey because we know that the imprisonment of oppositionists, freedom of expression advocates and human rights activists is unfortunately continuing. That is why a renewed peace process is also needed in Turkey. We will continue to engage fully. I think it is a strength that we often have good support in the Swedish Parliament.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström! We in the Left Party have never considered that money for humanitarian aid and civil organisations should be strangled, but it is about the billions that we give to Turkey to keep the refugees away. I am grateful to your reply that Sweden's commitment will continue to be sustained and that the Government will seize every opportunity to work towards compliance with the cease-fire requirements of Resolution 2401 and that the objective of Resolution 2254 will eventually be achieved. Now I hope that the government will also take on board the criticisms that not only we in the Left Party have made against the EU billions and act with weight against the EU in this particular respect. It would be a good way to follow the proud tradition of Swedish foreign policy to stand up to great powers who abuse smaller regions and countries. There were many of us who cheered together with the people of northern Syria when al-Raqqa was freed. It was the Kurds in the area who did. Now a new democratic system would be built, with free elections, equal rights for women and men and influence for everyone in the region, not just the majority population. Together with the people of northern Syria, we looked forward to this uniqueness that was about to happen in an area that is rarely associated with openness, freedom of expression and equality. Now these imminent dreams are being crushed into gravel when Turkey has taken over Aphrin. Now that Turkey desecrates women, forces people to flee and scribbles, Türkiye, in the facades of the city, our support is most needed. We must not turn our backs on these brave people, who have fought IS/ Daish with their lives as an effort. We will continue to speak on manifestations. We will continue to participate in demonstrations. We will continue to demand that the outside world take a clear stand against Turkey's attack on Afrin.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-52	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, for the interpellation! This remains perhaps the most important foreign policy issue to pursue. The war in Syria is one of the worst conflicts of our time, and human suffering as well as large flows of refugees follow in its wake. Let me just make it clear to you that the government is doing everything in our power to alleviate the horrors of war. We will continue to do so. I haven't heard much new ideas about what to do. We have the political trail. We have a humanitarian trail. We have direct diplomatic and political contacts, which we must continue to make full use of. We have always stressed the importance of respect for international law and the protection of civilians. That is how we have operated in the UN, for example. These needs are very acute. Access to those in need in Afrin must be improved immediately if we are to be active. We continue to support the UN-led political process to find a political solution. We are also conducting talks with other members of the Security Council on how to act in relation to Aphrin in order to be as effective as possible. Even in our contacts with Turkey, we will demand respect for international law and human rights. We believe that dialogue and engagement with both government and opposition and civil society remains the very best way to monitor these issues and to reverse the negative developments in Turkey. I very much appreciate the commitment shown by Yasmine Posio Nilsson and also the support that I know exists in Sweden, not least among all the Kurds who live here and who of course worry daily and at once about what is happening in this area.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-57	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to adapt the gap between municipal revenues and needs in the municipal sector from 2019. Sweden is now in a period of demographic change. In the coming years, the proportion of children and the elderly is estimated to increase sharply, so that the need for childcare, school, health care and care for the elderly will grow rapidly. I share SKL's view that the tax base is unlikely to grow as quickly as the need for municipal welfare in the future. That is precisely why the current government has, since we took office, steered the policy of the previous alliance government's tax-merger policy. During this term of office, the government has protected welfare and invested tens of billions of dollars in increased resources for municipalities and county councils. The next term of office will require further efforts at municipalities and county councils in order not to impair the level of education, care and care for children and the elderly. In the 2018 budget, the Government has already announced that we will increase state grants permanently by SEK 5 billion in 2019 and another SEK 5 billion in 2020. It is efforts that are needed not to impoverish welfare, and it is efforts that must be prioritised before major tax cuts for high-income earners.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-61	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If tax increases were the answer to the challenges of welfare, we should not have the care queues that we have today. We should not have the police shortage that prevails, nor should we have sick people who end up between the chairs when the various authorities are saving. I think there are many questions regarding the tax base forecast that SKL has come up with. There is a great deal of concern, and I am pleased that the Minister for Finance is addressing the demographic changes and challenges that are to be seen in the future. We're actually there right now. Does Sweden have a stable economy when the boom is turning downwards? After a boom, there's always a recession. We know that. Is Sweden equipped enough to cope with the well-being of the economy when the economic cycle declines? And how can the welfare society be maintained when the demographic dependency ratio has increased from 1.7 in the first years of the 2000s to 1.74 in 2016? This means that each person of an active age will support an additional 0.74 persons who are not active in the labour market. It looks very different in the country. I looked at statistics for Pajala, where the ratio is 1, 09, and for Solna, where the relationship is the opposite. This is therefore an average for the country, but it looks very different in the country also from the boom that we are in. I find that very worrying. My municipality, Flen, is a 57-minute train ride from here. We have an unemployment rate above 10% and are now seeing how the supply support in the municipality is increasing very strongly. Moreover, when the recession comes, there will be disaster for municipalities that are much further away from growth areas. My municipality is located in a large growth area, and yet it looks like this. There are many questions, and the concerns of SKL and their member municipalities and county councils are great. The Chief Economist at SKL says that as of 2018, it is expected that the need for well-being will increase significantly faster than tax revenues. It was this gap that the Minister raised in his reply. Extensive action is needed. There must be more people working. There must be more people paying taxes to our common welfare. A number of measures are needed to close the gap between costs and revenues, which according to SKL's calculation is about SEK 59 billion. This applies if municipalities and county councils continue in exactly the same way as they do today. Municipal activities will need an increased focus on working differently, ranging from technological innovation to preventive care. The surplus that the local government sector and the county council sector are expected to get for 2018 will very clearly turn downwards from 2019. If nothing is done, the gap will be 62 billion by 2022, SKL has calculated. It is an election year, and we can stand here and have political discussions. But this is a real concern about how we are going to do it in the future. There must be more of us to help each other for our common well-being. More people have to work, and then enterprise policy has to be connected. It is not possible to just take action as a step-in job. They are incredibly important, but one must also acknowledge the entrepreneurship of the country. That is not the case today.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-72	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome a moderate Member of Parliament who is concerned about the long-term financing of welfare. This is something that we from the government have been working on from day one when we entered the Government Office. We addressed the large deficits in public finances, because if there is no order in the economy, there is also no long-term stable financing of welfare. We have turned major deficits into order in public finances. We have also paid 10 percentage points of public debt, so we now have the lowest public debt since 1977. This is an important way of equipping oneself for the new demographic situation. Another important thing, as Lotta Finstorp also points out, is that many people are in the work e. That is where we have had a clear focus on continuing to push back unemployment. We can see that the government's policy has led to fewer people being unemployed and that more people are working in Sweden. Sweden now has the highest employment rate in the EU, and more than that in fact. We have the highest employment rate ever measured by the European Statistical Office in any EU country. Of course, we need to continue working so that even more people can get to work, get away from unemployment and also be able to work full-time. One thing is very clear to me: if we are to meet the demographic challenge, it is not tax cuts that are the answer. If we are concerned about the financing of welfare, the answer cannot reasonably be to reduce the tax. The Moderates want to reduce the tax by over SEK 30 billion this year and in addition have a large and comprehensive tax sink agenda. We have heard Ulf Kristersson say that the most prioritised tax reduction is for those who earn the most. This means that high-income earners who earn 120 000 a month will receive a tax reduction of 9 000 SEK each month. How does Lotta Finstorp envisage hiring more teachers, nurses and doctors with these extensive tax cuts? Now, of course, I am concerned that it will be like during the period of the previous alliance government, when the lack of support from the alliance government led to major breaks in welfare that were left behind.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-78	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for a serious debate, although I would have liked us not to have stood here and hit each other in the head with the tax promotion party and the tax sub-party. It could not have happened to the Minister for Finance that we had a historical recession in more or less the whole world, which began in 2008 and which Sweden came out of quite a mess thanks to a wise alliance policy. Does the Minister not see that there is a problem in that anyone who wants to study, get a degree, a job and work extra, touch that little extra, can't keep almost anything in his wallet? Does the Minister, like me, not see that you have to look at where the limit is for how much people can be taxed? In the end, you feel that you can just as well continue to go on providing support, because the incentive today to move from support to work is so low that in that case there are other driving forces than the economy that make you get up early in the morning, go and struggle at a job, maybe start with a low entry salary, which we think is right. You can't set too high entry wages for simpler jobs, because then people will never get these jobs. There must also be a difference between those who fight and do the right thing and those who remain in the benefit system. I'm a social worker and I'm on leave of absence from the Social Services. I've worked a lot on these questions. I haven't worked very hard with the allowance, but with vulnerable families. If you go on subsistence support, it will eventually be a day-to-day experience that you have about the same level as the one who has a low-paid job. Then the question is, is that where you're supposed to be? Or what incentives are there? We humans work so that if we have more money in our wallet, this is what drives us very much, instead of collecting contributions every month. Now we see that the supply support is increasing in almost every municipality and in the municipalities that also took the greatest responsibility when we received large migratory flows. It was in these municipalities that there were vacant dwellings. It was in those municipalities that unemployment had stuck, and people had moved away. That's not rock and roll science. That's what it looks like. It is in these municipalities that there is still too little work in enterprises. It is also where new businesses are set up to a lesser extent. It's like a vicious circle of how Sweden is torn apart, as the Social Democrats said in the 2014 election movement. We now see it very clearly from the point of view of the local government sector. I usually meet Småkom, which is an organization for the smallest municipalities. Many municipalities are outside growth areas, and they do not understand how they will cope, as the Minister says, that the group of older people is growing and that we have many children in need of schooling. And these are municipalities where the tax base is very weak. I do not know what the answer to the question is from the government today. It seems to be raising taxes for the rich, and so the rich are the ones who earn above the breakpoint, about 37 000. They are the ones to be taxed more. I would like the Minister for Finance to further develop this.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-85	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp is concerned that some who receive support do not have strong enough incentives to work because there are many low-paid jobs. I also think it is a problem with low wages in Sweden, but I do not seem to share this with the Moderates otherwise because the Moderates want to legislate in the Swedish parliament to reduce wages. Lotta Finstorp is also concerned that some municipalities are at risk of having a high level of supply support responsibility when people who have received introductory compensation are instead at risk of receiving supply support. It's a concern that I share. There perhaps Lotta Finstorp could possibly have a discussion with her party friends in some of the municipalities that have taken care of new arrivals according to the settlement law but now throw them out of their accommodations. The fact that Moderates in Lidingö and other wealthy S tockholm suburbs do not assume their responsibilities means, of course, that the responsibility instead ends up in municipalities that have already taken a great responsibility. If we could cooperate more on this in the Swedish Parliament, I think that would be very good. Lotta Finstorp thinks we should not hit each other in the head with taxes. No, but the problem is that there is a very clear line of conflict here in Swedish politics, which is crucial precisely when it comes to the funding of welfare. My assessment is that we will meet the demographic challenge of the tax revenue that is now in the forecast, given that we prioritise it. For me, it is incredibly important that we prioritise welfare and ensure that municipalities and county councils have the resources to meet the demographic challenge. Of course, we will continue to work for more people to get to work. However, that will not be enough, but we must add more of the state's tax revenue to municipalities and county councils. But you can't do that when you go to elections on a very comprehensive tax bench agenda, as the Moderates do. You want to cut the tax by 30 billion already this year and, in addition, go forward with very offensive tax cuts for me and other high-income earners. Then, of course, I am concerned that it will be the same as it was under the alliance government, which has come forward with very substantial tax cuts at national level. The resources were used for tax cuts instead of supporting municipalities and county councils. This meant that municipalities and county councils had to struggle with their problems. It is quite correct that there was a major financial crisis in 2008-2009. But the problem was that the Moderates then chose to lower the tax rather than to support municipalities and county councils enough with the resources they needed.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-90	Mr President, I would like to There are several reports and studies that show that Sweden was quite right during the severe recession of 2008. We are an example in the world because the alliance government managed to cope with this great recession. People in Sweden did not really experience how bad it was. I'd love to stand and beat my chest for it, because we did the right thing. This government has saved considerably less in prosperity than previous governments, and that will be eaten up when there is a recession. I am the first to admit that this with places of residence is a problem. But if you have come as a refugee to a small town, lived there for two years and established yourself among the population – there are many good examples of that – you often choose to stay. It is also a question of lower rental levels. Trying to find a home in the Stockholm area is difficult for everyone, not only for those who are new in the country – even if the take-off distance then becomes even longer. The housing shortage hits the hardest in the metropolitan areas and especially in Stockholm. This is certainly a problem and we must make it work better. If there were only jobs and companies that dare to hire some more in the smaller places where the new arrivals come, one could reach a long way in the introduction to Swedish society. Sweden needs more people who work and pay taxes, not less, and according to the Labour Market Economic Council simple jobs could be the way there.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-96	Mr President, I would like to Here we have another moderate Member of Parliament who believes that the resources for welfare increased enough during the time of the Alliance in power. Of course, spending increased, but it wasn't thanks to the alliance government. On the contrary, 261 out of 290 municipalities were forced to increase the tax due to the inaction of the alliance government during the financial crisis. The support for the municipalities was simply not enough. The result we all saw in that the number of employees in welfare decreased as a proportion of the population. In fact, we need to go back to the budgetary adjustment of the 1990s in order to see an equal reduction in the number of welfare workers per inhabitant. Now the government has changed its policy, and we see another development. The number of employees in welfare is increasing, thanks to the government's priority and increased resources by SEK 35 billion. But that's just the beginning. Sweden is now seriously entering a demographic shift, and in the coming years there will be 300 000 more children and 300 000 more older. Then we have to train and hire nurses, teachers, preschool teachers and everyone else who works with children and the elderly in order for children and the elderly to have it safe. That is what I want to do; that is what my programme for the future looks like, and it is quite possible if we choose to prioritise. The Moderates are making a different priority. They want to lower taxes most for those who earn the most. But there is one thing we all know: it is not possible to hire a single assistant nurse, doctor or teacher with tax cuts, and it will be welfare that will take the fall again.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-101	Mr President, I would like to Penilla Gunther has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation whether the state-supported investment in satellite launch is socially beneficial in the broader sense, i.e. whether it leads to the strengthening of other Swedish space activities or whether it instead leads to displacement effects. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Swedish space activities are of high quality, and the increase decided by the Swedish Parliament for the Swedish Space Agency enables further investments in space and helps Sweden to continue to be a prominent space nation. Space research, for example, is crucial for understanding and addressing the global environmental and climate challenge. Our society depends on space technology, and space activities can also lead to innovations and applications in other areas. In September 2017, the Government gave a commission to the Swedish Space Board to investigate, in collaboration with the Swedish Space Company, the conditions for launching small satellites from Esrange on a commercial basis. In the analysis received in January 2018, the assessment was made that the conditions exist for the Swedish Space Company to conduct launch of satellites with full cost recovery provided that investment in the establishment of the capability is covered from other sources. The Government has received the results of the Space Board's investigation, and the matter is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-107	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. We had an interpellation debate in October, at which point the issue primarily concerned a forthcoming space strategy. Then the Government said that there would probably not be a strategy without a letter. The deadline for the submission of proposals has now passed, so I wonder whether there is anything at all in this area that can be read in the coming months. I am not the only one waiting for this, but there is a tense expectation throughout this industry in Sweden. In western Sweden, at home, there are a number of activities that are major players in satellites and rockets in space operations. When this issue came up, it was in fact Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Damberg who had a press release that satellites would be postponed. It caused a certain amount of surprise, partly because it was not the minister who was marketing this, and partly because it had not previously been heard of this satellite launch. I myself thought that this should certainly be in a strategy if you have thought it before. This is a new and costly investment in a completely new area of activity for Sweden, and this is to happen while existing space activities that have been built up for a long time are under severe economic pressure. Today we have a situation where both national activities and international cooperation are forced to stay at record low levels. The question then arises as to whether this is really the most important thing the government can do in terms of space security. As far as satellites are concerned, we are also in competition with Norway. My question is therefore: has space policy at Nordic level been discussed at all? I have been in the Presidency of the Nordic Council for a couple of years, and this issue has not received much attention at this level. But perhaps it does in the Nordic Council of Ministers, what do I know? I ask the question out of curiosity. Neither Norway nor Sweden are large countries in space activities, and then you can ask if it is economically and socially important that both Norway and Sweden work with satellite launches. Firstly, they cost taxpayers quite a lot, and secondly, as far as I understand it, they do not benefit our domestic industry. My two questions are therefore: what is happening with the space strategy? What are the benefits of the satellite launch?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-114	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Gunther for the supplementary questions. As far as the strategy is concerned, it comes in the form of a letter. It has been delayed and will be submitted to the Riksdag during the month of May. The delay, however, is not due to the issue of Esrange, but to other issues that need further preparation. That it is not a bill is because it will not contain concrete proposals for the Riksdag to debate without strategic questions about how Sweden can be a strong space nation in the future and what directions we should choose. An important part is, of course, what the honourable Member has already mentioned, namely that we have a strong and good space industry that is competitive and world-leading in the manufacture of certain components – especially in the case of so-called upstream services and to contribute to rocket development, for example, for large satellite programmes that we participate in both European cooperation and in other international collaborations. This will not be affected by any investment in Esrange. As I said, we have had a lot of work on Esrange's development, but also the question of how Swedish space activities will develop in the future. We had an investigation led by Ingemar Skogö, who submitted his report more than two years ago. We have also had Jan Nygren as a special investigator, and he has looked at just how we could develop Esrange, for example, when it comes to launching smaller satellites in orbit. It feels a bit special that we have for 50 years a space base with enormous knowledge of postponing not only sounding rockets but also so-called atmospheric balloons. There is a great deal of expertise, and there the Space Company is one of the world's largest receivers of satellite information on a commercial basis. All of this led Jan Nygren to see that there is potential to develop our space base even when it comes to what goes under the concept of a new space, i.e. new space activities based, among other things, on launching smaller satellites in different constellations to take down information related to our own planet. To develop this and see if there is a business basis, I and Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg gave the Space Board and Space Company a commission to look together at whether this can be done on a commercial basis. The conclusion was also that it can be done on a commercial basis, with commercial operators, provided that we manage the basic investment in infrastructure in order to develop the space base itself. Therefore, the operation would not be charged to the Space Board's budget, for example, and would not crowd out what we do in international cooperation, for example, and which benefits our important space industry. This should not at all mean displacement effects, but should be specific activities that make us both skilled in upstream services and develop our ability to exploit all the information provided by satellites. In this way it can strengthen other industrial activities, digitalisation and also the important environmental and climate work.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-122	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the investigation that Jan Nygren has done and about which there has been some talk – but which no one has seen, at least no one outside the Government Office – the curiosity is of course great both from the political side and from the industry. One might well ask what makes it so long since Skogö's investigation, which we have discussed here before, became clear that it came to – hardly – a letter. However, decisions are being made on a large satellite initiative that hopefully can be made on a commercial basis, but it does not really benefit the existing space industry as it looks in Sweden today. It is not primarily focused on these small satellites. So one might wonder what the strategy really looks like on the part of the government. If you now want a viable space industry in Sweden, you should perhaps invest in what the industry is good at. It has a well-known and recognised competence in various areas, not least engines and rocket engines – to both aviation and space, I would say. If we expect there to be a social benefit in Sweden of the investments that are still being made in space, one can also imagine that there should be a business inquiry about this. As I said in my previous post, we have Norway close, for example And ø ya Space Center. How do you look at it? Have you done some kind of market research on the whole so that you actually know that it will pay off just as you have thought, or is there only one wish that we in Sweden should be able to take a larger share when it comes to the satellites? As I wrote in my interpellation to the Minister, Sweden has had an ambitious national space programme. This applies not least to climate research and measurement values that can be used in different ways, and it is of course very important for growth, knowledge and competitiveness. But when the industry sees that the government is investing in a new area, it is clear that the question arises: Where are we going to fit our operations? We have not seen a space strategy, and we have not seen a letter – but there will still be a business that is said to be managed on commercial terms. I still have to keep asking the question. Has a market investigation been carried out, not least at the Nordic level, when discussing these issues? Otherwise, it might be a good advice to actually have a joint meeting on Nordic space strategy.
i-RaCDDLcaqsYtNMEL7PPVqE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the continued questions, Penilla Gunther! As I said, it is not because of Esrange that the letter on a new space strategy is delayed, but it concerns other areas that need further additions and deep dives. As far as Esrange is concerned, as I said, we have just commissioned the Swedish National Board of Space and Space and Space Company to jointly produce both the market analysis and the business plan that has now been submitted to the government and that we have taken note of. Of course, it is a very important part of how we then choose to move forward, but many issues remain to be resolved. One of them is what the Member of Parliament himself points out, namely what cooperation with Norway should look like. After all, it is extremely important that we can find cooperation between the two unique places we have up here in northern Europe. It is also important to put this into a European perspective; now several European countries are looking at the possibility of building space bases entirely from scratch. We already have one, through Esrange, and it can be part of the European strategy to have independent access to space. This is, of course, to be discussed in the context of European space activities. I feel, as I said, that we are quite confident about the market analysis that has been carried out. This is a growing field, and many of our industries are involved in what is now happening to smaller satellites. I visited Ruag in Linköping, and as I said, they are working on the great Oneweb project, which is about getting smaller satellites up into orbit to offer the internet to the areas in the world that do not have it today. So there are many things they are involved in even when it comes to the so-called new space industry. It will also require the development of new types of launchers, for example, in order to be able to launch smaller satellites. Today, the smaller satellites are being pushed up above all on large launchers and are thus allowed to go so-called pryback on the large satellite launchers, but the idea here is precisely to see if you can develop this so that you can decide when and where they should be postponed. It is a development work where Sweden could be among the first to offer this, but it requires, as I said, more. This requires, above all, an investment in the infrastructure of Esrange. We also need to find funding for this before it can become a reality. So the letter and strategy will not be about deciding on this. It is a parallel process, which is obviously also linked to budgetary work. The strategy will be about how we think that Sweden should develop as a space nation. Sweden is already a prominent space nation. But the question is whether we should continue to concentrate solely on upstream services in the major international satellite programmes or whether we can do more. The government sees great potential in developing services, new companies and innovations in the so-called downstream services. This will probably be the subject of the letter.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-134	Mr President, I would like to Last year, incubators were started in the space industry. It's something I've seen myself at home in Trollhättan. There is the Innovatum Science Center that has such an incubator. It is very important to develop innovations in this area, which can stimulate industry in the long term in a country like Sweden. We have a lot of high-tech industry and an interest in space. As the Minister pointed out, we also have a long-term activity, not least with Esrange. My concern and the reason I put the interpellation to the Minister is that this is about very long-term activities. It takes an incredible amount of time to produce the products required for activities such as this. Industry, of course, is extremely interested in a long-term strategy so that it can plan its activities. Personally, I am interested that we should be able to create jobs in the country, too, in this area. Then education and research must be put in place that can stimulate people to take part in this and to want to become part of industry. I have a final question for the Minister. We need industrial skills for quite a long time to come, but it must start now. How does the Minister intend to get this into the strategy?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-138	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for a very urgent and interesting discussion and debate about Sweden as a strong future space nation! I fully share your view on education and research initiatives. That's why I'm glad the rich day gave another 40 million to the National Space Board. That is exactly what is needed to continue strengthening research. We have in many ways a world-leading research and extremely attractive education. This applies to both doctoral studies and basic education in the field. The universities and institutes working on these issues are very keen to continue to maintain high quality and attract people to education. A coherent space strategy may be even clearer. I would like to emphasise what Mrs Gunther has to say about how important it is to link this with other industries. It is one thing that many people from north to south are employed in direct space activities. But what is fascinating about space activities, space industry and space research is that our image of knowledge is stretched so much that we have the opportunity to also use this knowledge for innovations in other industrial activities. This is what makes space operations so amazingly good. Of those working in space, 70 - 80 percent are really highly educated. It is about truly advanced jobs that create a huge amount of new knowledge and innovation capacity. I am absolutely sure that by creating clusters for innovation and cooperation, Sweden will be strengthened not only as a space nation but also as an even stronger industrial nation.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-143	Mr President, I would like to Penilla Gunther has asked me how a ban on uranium mining goes with the development of Swedish mining industry and the need for innovation-critical metals. The Government decided on 21 March 2018 to submit the Bill Prohibition of Uranium Extraction to the Riksdag. The ban is introduced into the environmental code and applies to mining activities involving the extraction of uranium as the main product and by-product and the recovery of uranium from extractive waste. However, the prohibition does not apply to mining activities involving iron ore, other base metals, rare earth metals or other minerals where the mineral is mined, mined, processed or physically or chemically enriched for purposes other than the use of the fissile properties of uranium. Uranium extraction is not currently taking place in Sweden. In the mineral law, uranium is removed as a concession mineral. The amendment will no longer make it possible to grant exploration permits or processing concessions for uranium. However, investigation methods using uranium properties to find concession minerals for which an investigation permit has been granted are not affected by the amendment of the law. The proposal therefore means that it will continue to be possible to explore for and extract so-called innovation-critical metals and minerals in Sweden. The Government sees a need to increase knowledge of and conditions for sustainable extraction of innovation critical minerals in Sweden – both to ensure sustainablely produced metals for EU industries, and to ensure access to the minerals required for phase-out of fossil energy sources and to replace these with, for example, wind power and solar energy. The Government has therefore commissioned Sweden's geological investigation to map the possibilities for extraction of innovation-critical metals and minerals in Sweden(N2018/01044/ FÖF). Countries that both have access to minerals and metals and the possibility of refining them within the country have good opportunities to ensure increased economic revenues and jobs.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I get a little curious, and I guess you ask questions to get answers. As I wrote in my interpellation, there is an ambiguity in the government. In October, the Government received a very nice report from Growth Analysis on innovation critical metals. It pleased me very much, because it shows a forward spirit and thinking regarding the circular economy in Sweden. We have discussions in this area regarding the recycling of mobile phones, computers, tablets and so on. But that will not be enough for the need for these products. All the more important, I think it is that we get to the circular economy in Sweden. We must be able to move from production to recycling. In our country, we have incredible opportunities to extract several of the metals required. For this reason, the announced and now submitted proposal for a ban on uranium mining has been widely discussed in various contexts. The question of the usefulness of the subject of the bill has been raised. Now that the Law Council has given its opinion on this, it can first of all be noted that there is no uranium mining in Sweden today. No one has applied for it either. It is said by the Law Council that, against the stated background, it is difficult to see what the draft legislation of the referral adds to the regulation that already exists. It is clear that this is a very interesting view from the Law Council, which will assess whether a future legislation is applicable and good or strong enough and so on. It says that this will bring no benefit at all. However, the Minister just stated that the ban should not cover mining activities related to iron ore, base metals and so on. But this is exactly where the discussion lies. The reluctance to ban uranium mining has to do with the fact that it would actually mean that you could not pick up other things either, because much of what is picked up from the ground is actually uranium enriched. It is not something I have invented myself, but there are geologists who have clearly stated it. Then there will also be a doubt from investors. What happens if this ban is imposed? What happens if we get uranium up and can't use it? If there is a ban on bringing it up, what do we do with it once it is out of the ground? I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on that very point.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-152	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Gunther for the question. It is true that there is no uranium mining today, but the issue has been discussed over the past 10 – 15 years and perhaps longer, as there is some exploration around Sweden. In particular, municipalities around Sweden have been very concerned about this. They feel they don't want a uranium mine near them or in their community. This has been a discussion for a long time, and we have wanted to take a step further and make it clear that we in Sweden do not see uranium mining as a future industry. Nevertheless, we define the mining sector in Sweden; the traditional mining industry remains very important to us. We have commissioned both Growth Analysis and SGU; they will analyse the potential of these innovation critical metals. Several authorities have been given additional assignments to work on these issues. We have also moved on with a discussion about sustainability labelling of metals and minerals in the future, so as to create a further momentum for those countries and companies that are at the forefront of sustainable mining and provide them with further support in development. It is the same thing that we have had in the forest area, where private actors have made certification systems and carried out the sustainability work. Now we have given such a mission to see if Sweden can in any way push for sustainability-marking metals and minerals after the scandals that have taken place in many countries. Sweden sits on a potential gold mine, or whatever one should say, with the metals and minerals found in the bedrock. But precisely because there has been uncertainty about uranium, we wanted to make it clear that uranium is not a metal that we see before us that we should start opening up to mining of. If this does not add anything new, it is not a problem. However, I would like to say that all the municipalities that spoke about the investigation advocated a ban. So there has been an idea around Sweden that this is important. Nevertheless, I understand that Penilla Gunther has not said – not in this discussion anyway – that we believe that it is precisely uranium mining that is the important thing; it is the other metals and minerals that are. There I can reassure Mrs Penilla, because that is exactly the point of this legislation. Let's say this isn't even supposed to affect the ability to search for these metals and minerals. Uranium is a metal that you can search for to understand where the other metals and minerals are. However, if you pick up uranium, you have to take care of it and deposit it under safe conditions, so that it does not affect the environment in any way. This will make it clear that it will not be possible to extract it and sell it on. I believe that the legislation is being made clear in this way. If the Riksdag does as the bill proposes, we will have a change that will take effect on 1 August this year.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-156	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your reply from the Minister. It is a concern when two members of the government do not share the same view. I had this discussion with Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog a few months ago. She had ordered the report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. SGU wondered why it was made by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has no special knowledge of this particular area. A month after that came the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation's report from Growth Analysis, which thought something completely different. There's gonna be a crash from the outside. Both the industry and those of us in this House must be able to see how everything is connected. But that is exactly what has not been seen either from a political point of view – I think that applies to many of us anyway – or from the industry. I have had several discussions and meetings with anxious people working in the mining and mineral industry. It is not understood how two ministers in the same government can have completely different views. This bill does not really have any effect. I can agree with the Minister that it may not do any harm either. That could be the case. But it definitely doesn't do any good. Then one might ask why it is put forward at all. The Minister raises the issue of municipalities that are concerned that someone would want to break uranium and have to take a stand. But even the Law Council clearly states in its reply that it is not reasonable that the Government should, according to the proposal, test the admissibility of an activity that can never be authorised. No, and once again the proposal is of no use at all. Is it just a political statement, especially on the part of the Green Party, that you do not really want any mines in this country? This is contrary to the position of the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation, which instead extends the possibilities for Swedish mining industry – which has existed in this country for generations and has contributed to the country's prosperity – so that we can develop there. My question to the Minister still remains. Will it be possible to extract these innovation-critical metals, as it is owned in the Minister's reply, if the proposal submitted is eventually adopted in Parliament? Will the possibility be reduced? Is there an assessment of that?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-161	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to make it clear that it is important for the government not to open up for uranium extraction in Sweden. But if you in the Christian Democrats do not think it is so important, I thought it might not matter so much, if you still think that today's legislation probably does not allow us to open a uranium mine in Sweden. I tried to argue with those who think this is a bad proposal but believe that uranium mining is not possible. In formal terms, however, current legislation still makes it possible to test whether a uranium mine can be opened in Sweden. We want to fill this possibility with this legislation, which creates clarity. This has been appreciated not least by all the municipalities that have commented on this investigation. This has been a matter for quite a long time. This is also linked to the large energy agreement, where the Christian Democrats were also involved and where we say that the future of the Swedish energy system is to move towards fossil freedom. This is connected, I think, in a line and a logic that works. We've been clear. It is not only I who have commissioned Growth Analysis and SGU to investigate what these innovation-critical metals can mean for Sweden. After all, it is the government that has given that task to the authorities. The entire government is behind both this bill and the assignments that have gone to SGU and Growth Analysis to look at the opportunities that even the green innovation critical metals have for the green transition. Although Sweden is quite good at recycling in an international perspective, recycling of metals and minerals will not only be sufficient for the transformation that society needs to go through. It comes with the technological development that we have today, at any rate, to require several of these innovation-critical metals. We have in Swedish bedrock a number of them. The authorities point out that we even have them to such an extent that it would probably be commercially viable. It must be investigated, counted on and also reviewed. This is something we push and see opportunities in. Otherwise, the authorities would not have received the assignments. However, we do not think that we should confuse it with the debate on uranium mining. Then I think many groups are very worried about whether these innovation-critical metals should be used to actually open urangruvor around Sweden, because they are located in roughly the same areas and can have links to each other. It is incredibly important to be clear here so that you do not get a popular resistance to these innovation-critical metals that we need for the green transition in society.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-166	Mr President, I would like to I really want to make it clear that the Christian Democrats see no point in us opening up to uranium mining in Sweden. We've never had the attitude to do that. On the other hand, it is a matter of not closing the possibility of opening new mines instead. We need these metals if we are to become fossil-free and produce more batteries for use in many different areas. In many of the municipalities' referrals, there is concern about mining at all. There are many natural resources that you want to use, but you may not always understand or think about how they will arrive. We are dependent on the Swedish steel industry. We have seen this not least with the discussion we have had in recent weeks with Trumps's steel tariffs and all this. It is clear that it is important that we ensure that the Swedish mining industry receives the necessary investments to be able to produce these innovation-critical metals. That is where I wish to close the debate on my part. I thank the Government for the answers and hope that we can work together to make it an opening for the mining industry in Sweden and not least for the production of these innovation-critical metals.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-169	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by returning my thanks and thank you for the clarity that KD does not see uranium mining as a future industry for Sweden. Then maybe we can also get support later on for the bill. It is very clear in the bill that research methods that use uranium properties to find other minerals are not affected by legislation. We have indeed drawn up the proposal in this way. I see, like Penilla Gunther, a potential in the mining industry. This applies to the existing mining industry in society as we grow, build cities, bridges and infrastructure and will need many of those metals and minerals. But this also applies in our everyday lives with mobile phones, solar panels, wind farms and electric cars. It will require partly new metals and minerals to drive the green transition. Sweden has good conditions here. Hopefully, the metals and minerals that exist in Sweden both in the soil but also in the increased use of recycling can become a future industry that creates more jobs and even more export revenue to our country.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-172	Mr President, I would like to Mr Jomshof has asked Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson whether he shares the criticism that has been made against prayer-euprope and whether he would like to work towards a ban on prayer-eutrope. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The question of prayer eutrope raises the rules on freedom of religion in the form of government and in the European Convention. Freedom of religion means a right for the individual to choose religion but also to choose not to have faith. Society must be clear: No one must be imposed on any religion, but there is no right to completely avoid seeing or hearing religious expressions in their daily lives. Restrictions on rights and freedoms may be made in certain cases but must then be done with the support of law and only under specified conditions. This is how justice is dealt with in a democracy that safeguards human rights and in the rule of law. There have been cases where a municipality has communicated local regulations governing, among other things, public broadcasts. The current question is therefore handled at the local level by the Police Authority after hearing the municipality in accordance with the regulations of the Order Act. I would also like to remind the interpeller that the issue of banning prayer eutrope from religious buildings has been dealt with by the Constitutional Committee in the past. The KU then stated that the freedom of religion and association are constitutionally established by the provisions of Chapter 2. RF. The committee assumes that different communities and municipalities and the relevant authorities engage in dialogue in order to reach a solution with regard to prayer eutropic that is sustainable and good for all parties. ..................................................... We live in a democracy, and it is free for everyone to have ideas about prayereutrope. This right, too, is protected by our constitutions. As Minister of Culture and Democracy and as representative of the Government, I do not share the criticism to which the questioner refers, and I will not promote a ban on prayer euthropy at national level.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-178	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On April 26, 2013, the first prayer eutrope sounded from the minaret in the mosque located in Fittja. It was, I know, the first prayer eutropic ever from a mosque on Swedish soil. Following the decision to allow prayer eutrope in Fittja, similar demands have been made from other quarters, including in my own municipality of residence Karlskrona, where prayer eutrope was heard for the first time on 17 November last year. The latest release is Växjö, where the Växjö Muslim Foundation submitted an application for prayer eutrope on 12 February this year. As a result, the issue has been raised. That's why I have it on the table today and have put the interpellation. Criticism has been extensive against the application but also against prayereutrope in particular. The important thing is that unlike bell rings, which are neutral sound signals and part of our cultural and historical heritage, the Muslim prayer eutropic is a prayer. It is a religious articulated message in the form of the creed. This creed aims not least to show power and control over an area as well as to show that the inhabitants are Muslims, that Allah is the only god and that Muhammed is his prophet. Before I move on, I would like to take note of the very part of the prayer eutrope that concerns the so-called Prophet Muhammed. It's important. Muhammed was a military leader. He was a man of war. He led several military campaigns with all that it entails in the form of killing and suffering. He was a mass murderer. On one occasion he must have executed 600 - 900 Jewish boys and men by cutting their heads off. It is the same method that IS, for example, uses today against its opponents. He was a slave trader. We know that he captured women and children and sold them as slaves, and women were often used as sex slaves. He was a robber and a bandit. He financed his campaigns with looting and assaulting caravans. It is also known that he committed the murder of political opponents. There are a lot of stories about it. He shouldn't have made a difference between men and women. There are stories where, for example, he captured an older woman. He tied her upside down with rope. He tied the woman's legs to camels, which then had to run in the opposite direction so that she was torn apart. There are several such stories and descriptions of how he worked and what methods he used. We also know he had several wives. It is quite known that he had a wife, Aisha, who was six years old when he married her. When she was nine years old, he completed intercourse with the girl. My point here is somewhere that it is this prophet who is honored in his prayer eutrope, and to me it is provocative. It is extremely provocative that such a person is highlighted as an example. Another point that is important is that a prayer eutrope must be performed by a man. Women are not allowed to lead a prayer euthropist because one apparently believes that a woman's voice could be a temptation for men. Seriously, what kind of attitude is that? It's 2018 now. It is not possible, I mean, under any circumstances to equate a Christian bell ringing with a Muslim prayer euthropist. The bell ring is not a creed. The bell does not aim to show power and control over an area. The bell ring does not honor a mass murderer. Having said that, does the Minister for Culture and Democracy really mean that she does not understand the criticism and that she sees no problem with it?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-189	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Mr Jomshof! I come from the part of our country, located in Småland, which is popularly called the Bible Belt. In my case, it has meant that I am raised in a clear Christian tradition. It is an upbringing and an upbringing that has characterized me tremendously. It was obvious to me as a child to spend a large part of my life in church. It was my whole free time, basically. And in the late 70s and 80s, when many other children's schooling was marked by some kind of liberation, we still sang hymns in my municipal school. Being a Christian was the norm. In addition to being baptized, confirmed and raised into the Swedish Church, I have also chosen as an adult to engage there. This applies partly as elected at the national level in the council, partly locally in my parish as an active parish member and volunteer. Our Christian traditions are solemn and important to me. I defend the cultural heritage of the Swedish Church with that honor. However, the church is more for me than for many others in our country, who may focus most on Christmas traditions, Easter, school graduations, weddings and funerals. For me, the church is more than that. The church is solid ground under its feet. For me, the church is a place of reflection – a place of consideration, love and forgiveness. I believe that the fact that I carry with me experience of an active Christian life has contributed to my great awareness of what has created the conditions for my choices. The greatest prerequisites are our constitutions and the freedoms that they prepare. The issue of bells, prayer eutropes and other expressions raised by Mr Jomshof is a local and local matter. If it interferes, it should and can be limited. Such assessments have been carried out and such assessments will continue to be carried out. In the present case, as always, I, as a minister, should not like what the municipality or the police should decide on. We also have local self-government in our country, which I respect and which I wish everyone would respect. It is also a complex legal situation. Generally speaking, the municipality and the police must relate to the constitutionally protected freedom of religion, to the European Commission, to the Code of Order and to local regulations. I will never, as a minister, take over those who have the task of making decisions. It worries me that Jomshof and the Swedish Democrats want to restrict the freedom of municipalities and the ability to make their own decisions based on the laws we have. It's distressing, and it's a premonition.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-195	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, although it was not really a real answer to the last question I asked! In reply to my interpellation, the Minister for Culture and Democracy discusses the issue of freedom of religion. I think it is precisely a question of freedom of religion. It is not a matter for an individual municipality, but it is a much bigger issue than that. I would argue that the Minister lands in the wrong conclusion when she claims that it would be contrary to freedom of religion to ban prayer euthropy. In a democracy like Sweden, of course, you have the right to believe in any god you want. You can believe in Gud, you can believe in Allah, you can believe in-- what do I know, Shiva, Oden or the flying spaghetti monster, for example. This does not mean, however, that you have the right to impose your faith on someone else. Nor, I mean, is it possible to compare, for example, prayer eutrope from a mosque with, for example, the right to organise a public square meeting or the right to demonstrate. A group that is granted a temporary permit for a square meeting, for example, can be ignored if you wish. You can walk away if you don't like the message; it's very simple. A prayer eutrope from a mosque, on the other hand, is quite different. The prayer call takes place from, and is, a fixed installation. It is a public proclamation of Islam in the public space, and it cannot be avoided if you live nearby. I think that's an important difference. A ban on prayer eutropic does not prevent anyone from believing. You can do that anyway. A firm, recurring prayer euthrope, on the other hand, imposes on citizens a religious outlook – in this case, moreover, an outlook based on violence and hatred. In fact, what the Minister calls freedom of religion becomes a coercion, and I believe that prayer eutropic is thus contrary to religious freedom. But it is also contrary to our secular society, where we affirm freedom to as well as freedom from religion. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a growing support among people with foreign background. It's no wonder. This applies not least to those people who have been forced to flee Islamist oppression. We have long been the only party de facto taking seriously the ongoing Islamisation and the Islamist threat. I have spoken with many of these people over the years, and they have often expressed great surprise at what is called passivity or naivety on the part of the other Swedish parties. I remember not least a conversation I had with a man from Lebanon a few weeks ago. This is one of many conversations I have had over the years with people with a different background on this particular issue, and it is an important issue for many of these people. This man could not understand how we, or rather you, can let this happen. He wonders why you are pursuing a policy of sv erige being Islamised at an increasingly rapid pace. He also spoke of relatives in his former homeland, Lebanon, who express exactly the same surprise. They are warning that Sweden will face the same fate that Lebanon has done if we do nothing today. I also share this view. It is often these people, who have once again fled Islamist oppression, who are now once again forced to take part in the hateful message of Islam in our suburbs. Many feel anxious, and many feel fear. I fully understand that. We can also see how Islamists get a stronger stronghold in place after place in Sweden. If we allow prayer euthropists, this means that they are further strengthening their position. The cry of prayer is not a prerequisite for them to believe in their god- absolutely not. The prayer call is just an Islamic installation. People who have once fled from oppression are now thinking of fleeing or moving again. I would like to remind you once again that we are talking about Sweden in 2018. We were able to listen here earlier to an interpellation debate that talked about space research, that is, science. And now we are talking about a religion that wants to take Sweden hundreds of years back in time. I don't understand what's happening. How can the Minister for Culture and Democracy, with a clear conscience, not think that this is a problem? It's an open and honest question.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-207	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a big problem if we take our constitutions lightly. It is the constitutions that generations of Swedes before us have had to sacrifice everything for. It is freedoms that have built our country strong. Jomshof and his party, the Swedish Democrats, often say that they want to preserve what is Swedish and defend it. And I say that, in my opinion, there is nothing more Swedish than our rights and freedoms. But they are apparently not prepared to stand up for the Swedish Democrats. I love our freedoms. I can really say with emphasis that I love them and am prepared to fight for them, every day. Freedom of religion is one of several rights. But it comes, like all rights and opportunities, with responsibilities and responsibilities. I think part of the responsibility is not to take the easy way out. You need to see the complexity and carefully weigh every step on a gold scale. One needs to ensure that something is right, not just because it feels good in the mouth and is a simple message that goes forward, but instead one should breathe and identify the consequences. What does it mean if we begin to restrict freedoms and opportunities? The present case is not just a matter of freedom of religion. It is also a question of the European Convention, the Code of Conduct and local regulations. It is an extremely complex matter that is not easily envied by any of the decision - making congregations in question. However, the question is also based on local self-government. I'm protecting that governance. I am safeguarding the opportunity for our municipalities – who know their residents, who know which places to talk about and who can put the matter in a local context – to carry out this process as carefully as is necessary for the decision to be as anchored, well-founded and transparent as possible.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-212	Mr President, I would like to I agree that we should protect our constitutions, our rights and our freedoms – 100%. That's why I'm standing here. I believe that Islamism is a threat to these. There is not a single Islamic country in the world that is democratic, not a single Islamic country in the world where women and men are treated equally. Islamism is a threat to democracy. If we allow Islamism to take a foothold, what Alice Bah Kuhnke and I will probably both protect – our fundamental rights, freedoms and so on – will be threatened. I believe that future generations will bring a very sharp judgment on the policy being pursued today. It has also been shown that the mosque in Växjö has links with the Islamic organisation the Muslim Brotherhood. Materials linked to Saudi Arabia are marketed. There is misogynism, and there is anti-Semitism and so on. So it is the mosque that now wants permission for prayer eutrope. Nothing surprises me. It is the rule rather than the exception in mosques like this. Nevertheless, I am surprised at the naivety, as I call it, of the issue. Either you don't understand playing with fire, or you think what's happening is good. I honestly do not know what is worse, Mr President. However, it is positive that the majority of the Swedish people are on our side. A recent Sifo study shows that 60 percent are in favour of a ban on prayer eutropic. Only 21% are against a ban. This shows that we are once again on the Swedish people's side on these important fundamental issues, that is, issues that concern us. We're on a sloping plane. This is just the beginning. Prayer calls once a week today will be prayer eutrope five times a day tomorrow. And then we are only talking about a small part of the Islamisation that is currently going on, not only in Sweden but in large parts of the Western world. Islamism should not be ironed with hair. It's supposed to be fought. It is a threat to democracy and all that we love. It is distressing that so few parties understand what policy they are pursuing and what it will mean.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-219	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Mr Jomshof for the debate. It is a serious debate in which I hope we will have a wide-ranging debate and which I wish many people to get involved in in order to understand the consequences of what we are discussing. We live in a democracy. And everyone is free to have ideas about prayereutrope. The right to think and like it is also protected by our constitutions. And that, in my opinion, is the most Swedish we have to defend. I believe in the open society. But I don't think an open society is a simple thing. I think it will be a difficult and big thing to keep Sweden open and free. It will take a lot of us to do that. The easiest way is not always the right way. Sometimes we also have to choose the hard roads. Before this debate, I thought a lot about my grandmother and grandfather and my grandfather's mother, Sigrid, and my grandfather's father, Anders-Johan-Johan. They lived in poverty. Their children's labor was sold at auction. And they struggled hard – with blood, sweat and tears – for freedoms and rights. It is with this certainty that I am fighting for Sweden to be democratic, for us to retain our freedoms and for them to embrace all of us. That's a big responsibility. And I feel that we have that responsibility for future generations.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-224	Madam President, I would like On Friday, the European Council meeting was closed for this time. It was a meeting with many issues on the agenda, but it was still most marked by discussions on steel tariffs and our relationship with Russia after the attack in Salisbury. The discussion on steel tariffs was held after we were finally told that the EU would be exempt from the increased US tariffs until May. This was, of course, welcome news, but it should be stressed that we have no guarantee that the derogation will continue thereafter. That is why it is now extremely important that we hold the dialogue with the US administration and, at the same time, prepare to protect our countries under the usual trade rules. At my meeting with President Trump in Washington a few weeks ago, I mentioned that there is a problem with overproduction of steel on the world market. But the vast majority of production, half, is actually China. I am convinced that this is a key to making the US administration realise that the US and the EU should not confront each other, but rather seek synergies and solutions to deal with overproduction. I have also said early in this process that it is important that we do not escalate the situation but constantly try to maintain constructive dialogue with the United States. My experience with other tough negotiations is that one should try to find common ground with the other party and constantly choose dialogue over confrontation. I am pleased that our skilled Trade Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, has pursued such a line. The signals we are now receiving from Washington indicate that we have achieved some success in this work. This is a clear indication of the importance and benefits of our being united and acting together. Madam President, I would like So the second major issue on the agenda was the neurotoxin attacks in Salisbury, Britain. I gave Prime Minister Theresa May my full support and that of the whole of Sweden. The government was working for a sharper statement than what had been proposed, with a clearer identification of Russia. This was also the case, and I am pleased that a united Europe clearly condemned the attack and, furthermore, pointed out Russia as the only probable perpetrator. It is important to remember that the attempted murder in Salisbury is, of course, an extremely tough event for those affected and for Britain. But they are bigger than a bilateral issue between Britain and Russia. This is another challenge of the Russian international regulatory framework, and that is how it must be viewed. It is therefore crucial that this unacceptable action is met with a clear and joint response from us in the European Union. As a mark of this, we chose to call home the EU ambassador to Russia for consultations. We looked carefully at what can be done further, preferably from a single European point of view, but also possibly from the Swedish side, to respond to Russian action. We will of course also have a dialogue with the opposition. Madam President, I would like I now turn to other issues on the agenda. As is customary at the Spring Summit, economic policy was also discussed and we supported the proposed priorities. We also had, in the light of the disclosures surrounding Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, a discussion on social media responsibility for transparency and protection of citizens' personal data. Digital issues and innovation are something we will return to at the meeting in Sofia on 17 May. Then we will also meet the leaders of the Western Balkan countries to discuss the EU's continued engagement there. Another issue related to our world is that of the EU's relationship with Turkey. We adopted conclusions in which we stand united behind Greece and Cyprus in condemning Turkey's military action, both in the Aegean Sea and in the eastern Mediterranean. I have received an assurance from President Donald of the European Council that the very worrying developments in Syria and Turkey's actions there will be addressed at the meeting between the EU institutions and Turkey, which is taking place today. This issue has been raised by the government on a number of occasions. Those who fought against IS in Syria must be supported by the outside world. Turkey's actions cannot be justified. The Security Council resolution on ceasefire must be complied with, of course, also by Turkey. Madam President, I would like On Thursday we also had a discussion within the so-called leadership agenda. The theme was now taxation, focusing on the digital economy. It is a problem that global companies make huge profits in markets where no tax is paid, and at the same time it is clear that we have some different views on how to solve this problem. There are several of us who believe that we need to try to find global solutions to global problems and that the EU should therefore primarily seek solutions within the framework of the work carried out by the OECD. At the same time, we must be open to looking at solutions within the EU as well, but this must be preceded by a thorough analysis so that neither the EU as a whole nor individual Member States are distributed disproportionately. Madam President, I would like On Friday, we met without Prime Minister Theresa May to discuss the situation in the UK's withdrawal negotiations. At this meeting we saw a number of progress and clarifications in this area. An important step was already taken in the run-up to the meeting, when the chief negotiators agreed on the crucial elements of both exit agreements and transitional arrangements. Thanks to this progress, we were able to adopt new guidelines during the meeting for the forthcoming discussions on the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom. We have long been waiting for British clarity about how they view the future economic relationship – we have now got it. Unfortunately, it will be a tough Brexit because it chooses to leave both the Customs Union and the single market. This will cost both to them and to us. The government is therefore working closely with the business community to equip us for the consequences that will arise for both authorities and businesses when the British leave the EU. Overall, however, I am pleased that we can now take another step towards the orderly Brexit that we all want to see. It will provide clarity both for citizens and for businesses. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would also like to mention that, in the run-up to the European Council, I met both President Donald of the European Council and President Jean-Claude of the Commission at two separate meetings, in order to address, in particular, the negotiations on migration and the budget. Once again, when I put forward the need to step up efforts to develop a new asylum system this spring, by June at the latest, both confirmed that the Bulgarian Presidency is working on this issue and that the intensity of this will now increase. As far as the long-term budget is concerned, I reiterated the Swedish priorities and underlined that we will not be able to accept the bill when the UK is now leaving the EU. I think I had a somewhat greater understanding from the Commission than before of our arguments. Now, of course, we are continuing to work vigorously to ensure that the European Commission presents us with the best possible proposal in May. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-243	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! First of all, I welcome the fact that the European Council managed to agree on the guidelines for the forthcoming negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom and on the relationship. This provides a first basis precisely for negotiations on a free trade agreement. It is a free trade agreement in which we moderates – and I hope the government too – believe that it must aim for it to be as ambitious as possible and to have as few trade barriers as possible. We are convinced that it is the best thing both for the other EU Member States and for the UK. The Prime Minister also mentioned discussions on how the US's decision to exempt the EU from the steel and aluminium tariffs imposed has an impact on the EU. Here I would like to stress the importance of continuing negotiations. It is perhaps also too early to call out as victor in this, because this applies until May and much work remains to be done. But I listened carefully to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister emphasises dialogue over confrontation. That is something I would also like to send along, because we do not want to see an escalation in the situation where we are risking a trade war. Then I would like to turn to the question of Russia. It was clear. Here the Prime Minister clearly explained how the discussions have gone. I'm glad it was a stronger statement. I am also pleased, and welcome, that the Prime Minister says that he was pushing to mark Russia as clearly as possible. I would therefore like to ask whether the Prime Minister sees what more opportunities there are. It is precisely about the fact that the whole of Europe is now marking against Russia: that this action and similar actions are not acceptable. What does the Prime Minister see?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-246	Madam President, I would like With regard to Brexit and those guidelines, it is expressed that we want to have as close a relationship as possible with the United Kingdom. At the same time, however, it is written that we are limited by the position that Britain has now taken: that it wants to leave both the customs union and the internal market. It is a question of obtaining a free trade agreement, goods and services, of cooperation in the defence, security and foreign policy fields, and of other economic cooperation, for example in the field of research and innovation, within the framework of the opportunities that exist when we are now a third country, so to speak. That's what it says. It also says that if Britain changes its position, we are prepared to act accordingly. I think that is clear, and that is good. As far as customs duties are concerned, I share that view. It is certainly too early to talk about some victories here. A small victory on the part is that we in the European Union have taken, at least temporarily. This gives us an opportunity. However, I underlined in my introduction that I believe that it is far from certain that the opt-out will continue, so we need to use this time in the best possible way to simply achieve another dialogue or to continue the dialogue – I would prefer to express myself. As far as Russia is concerned, a meeting is already taking place today. As I said, at the sitting, we agreed to take back the EU ambassador for consultation. In addition, there are ongoing discussions on further such measures, i.e. with diplomats, I should say. In addition, we have pointed out the importance of seeing different options, so that you do not just look at one measure. What are the options? Let us then first of all find a common European solution, a measure, because that is the absolute best thing. However, it has already been included with the EU ambassador.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-249	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Then we can move on. What would be the nature of such initiatives, Prime Minister? There are a number of options. Who could it be? And what can Sweden, the government and the government's representatives prepare to, as it is described, maintain unity but also progress a few steps further? I am thinking, for example, of more listed people, financial consequences and political consequences. One can say that a small political consequence is to call the ambassador home, but I see this as a start. Without listing all the options, I wonder what the Prime Minister sees as alternatives. How will the Prime Minister work before, for example, the FAC in April and the European Council in June, which is quite far away, to ensure that this really has consequences for Russia?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-251	Madam President, I would like I do not think I want to go too far here and now, because it is also important that we get along with the others. However, the examples mentioned by Karin Enström are some that can of course be considered. What we are doing now is instructing for today's Coreper meeting. This is how we do it: Let's see together what different variants there are! It can be anything from listed people, mentioned here, to sanctions and other things. I do not want to have that discussion too far here and now, in this House. But there are alternatives, and we mean that we should first see the whole table. We are aiming for a joint agreement, so that it will continue to be a joint EU act. These are the instructions that have already gone out to put maximum pressure and really show that this is totally unacceptable.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister Löfven, for the report. This was a summit that overwhelmed many different issues. We in the Left Party largely share the government's view of what should be done. This applies not least to the feared trade war that we are entering, for which the United States has full responsibility by unilaterally deciding on tariffs. This time the EU was not included, but we do not know how it ends. It is important to respond to this with firmness and, at the same time, to try to avoid a trade war, of course. It is also extremely important that Russia's totally unacceptable behaviour, which is likely to have murdered a defector in Britain, is strongly condemned and has clear consequences for its relationship with Russia. Turkey was one of the other points at the summit. The conclusions address both Cyprus and Greece, but the conclusions do not say a word about Turkey rolling into Syria and expelling hundreds of thousands of people from their homes. Today Muslim jihadist groups raid Aphrin, with Turkey's good memory. You steal people's things. You kill civilians. The European Union has a responsibility in this. Turkey is a NATO country. Turkey has a close relationship with the EU. The EU is paying substantial financial resources to Turkey, not only for the reception of refugees, but also for the consolidation of its border. At this fortified border, refugees trying to enter Turkey are being shot at today. I believe that a clear and direct condemnation of this assault is necessary in this type of Council conclusions. And to meet Turkey's dictator, Mr Erdo中an, without clearly expressing this condemnation, is in danger of being perceived as an indirect admission: to send out the message that we will not protest even if it goes further in northern Syria. My questions to the Prime Minister are therefore: is it not time for the EU to condemn this attack on northern Syria? And is it not time that this began to have economic consequences for EU aid to Turkey?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-258	Madam President, I would like As far as Turkey is concerned, it is not the case that this is not addressed. Just what Jonas Sjöstedt has now emphasised has been addressed by Sweden bilaterally. It has been raised by the European Union. It is being addressed by the European Union today. That is what I raised with the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, on Thursday morning: that it must be included in the discussion. And I got confirmation of that. This is, of course, included in the UN Security Council, because Turkey must in fact respect, not least, the Security Council's cease-fire resolution. So it is not the case that this is not addressed. It will continue to be addressed. But we also want dialogue there. How are results achieved? Is this done by stopping talking to Turkey or by continuing to talk to Turkey? That's the choice you have to make. We agree that we should continue to have that dialogue and that, of course, we should be clear about where we stand. We have not discussed any economic sanctions or such measures. Now, of course, we must ensure that we follow these developments with Turkey very closely. Today, at the meeting between the EU institutions and Turkey, the issue will be addressed.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. I am sorry, but it is not enough to raise the issue. It is not enough to express concern. Such situations require us to take a stand, to say that what Turkey is doing is wrong, that we condemn it and that there will be consequences. The fact is that neither Sweden nor the EU are saying this. They express concern, they refer to resolutions, but they do not choose sides. In fact, it is time to do so before the situation gets much worse than it already is. At the same time, other messages are sent. Germany is increasing its arms exports to Turkey massively during ongoing massacres, during ongoing wars, during ongoing ethnic cleansing! The EU is continuing its payments of money to the Turkish dictatorship at the same time as this is happening. This is a form of dual message, and now it is time to end the dual message and instead send a straight message to Erdo中an: We cannot accept that you kill people and drive hundreds of thousands of people out of their homes – the Kurds who freed the whole world from IS!
i-b54c184bdc45f836-266	Madam President, I would like It is as I say: it is not that we do not choose sides. We say what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. However, it is not as simple as Jonas Sjöstedt wants to sound suggestive when he says that we are now cutting ties with Turkey. We have millions of refugees in Turkey. Most of the aid paid by the EU goes to the refugees. It goes to their opportunities to have a job and for the children to go to school. It goes to supplies and housing. That's what it's all about. It is clear that if one takes the direction that I hear Mr Sjöstedt speaking for, it risks, above all, the welfare of these people. It is also at stake, and you have to take that into account. I do not share the view that the European Union does not take a stand against this action. The EU does, Sweden does, and it does so all over the board. Then there is the question of how to maintain a system that will make it possible to continue to help people who need it most.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-269	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! When I read the conclusions of the European Council, specifically paragraph 5 on social issues, I note that the Council states that the social pillar is a joint commitment of the European Union and its Member States. I also read that it intends to proceed with the proposal for a European Labour Authority, which, among other things, the social partners fear will have a negative impact on the Swedish model. Madam President, I would like I myself attended the European Summit in Gothenburg. There were government representatives from some Member States who openly declared that they would not meet the cost of introducing the proposed social rights in the foreseeable future. On the contrary, it was argued that it was a joint and several responsibility for all the Member States to co-finance this. So I have two questions for the Prime Minister, and the first is: Is there a situation where the Swedish Government will agree that Swedish taxpayers co-finance any part of social rights in other Member States via the EU budget? My second question is this: in view of national agents and the scepticism of the social partners towards the European Labour Authority, does the Prime Minister have any concerns whatsoever about its introduction?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-274	Madam President, I would like As far as the social pillar is concerned, I said on Wednesday in the European Council that I think it is extremely important that we discuss social conditions both in Sweden and in the European Union. We have a common market and a common labour market in which people can move across borders. Then I think it is important to know that you can do so without undermining social conditions. That is why, as before, this is an issue in which competence is shared between the EU and the countries. The social pillar is not something that would suddenly change the division of competences and mandates, i.e. who makes the decisions. It is Sweden that decides on the Swedish conditions, both in labour market policy and in our social security systems and so on. The social pillar is therefore not an expression of the fact that this is now going to happen in the various countries. The pillar is for us to follow a number of important issues relating to working conditions and conditions of employment, but countries should make their own decisions on how to do this. However, we must have a common way forward in terms of how to increase social protection. I think that is extremely important. It does not come from the fact that with a single labour market this is actually a common issue to look at. However, it is not a question of shifting skills or mandates. The first question cannot therefore be answered, because it does not imply such a commitment. On the question of the authority, there are some suggestions as to what it could do. If it could provide both workers and companies with information on what applies in another country, then it would seem a rather harmless thing for an authority to do. On the other hand, should it be proposed that it be given a mandate to resolve disputes on its own, for example, without the countries wanting to do so, then it is something quite different. Let us therefore look at what is being proposed, and then we will act accordingly!
i-b54c184bdc45f836-280	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Of course it is possible to answer the first question. It was a very simple question: Is there a situation where the government will at some point contribute to Swedish taxpayers co-financing social rights in other EU countries? It's really easy to answer. There are also statements from some of the Eastern European countries that they want it to be co-financed. The Prime Minister knows that very well. On the second point, I note that the Prime Minister does not therefore take the same approach as the social partners, who are actually concerned about the development of a labour authority. Furthermore, I noticed that the Prime Minister stumbled somewhat on the words of the Western Balkans and the forthcoming meeting. He began to say something about EU enlargement, and then he stopped and corrected himself to talk about continued engagement in the region. That is why I was going to take this opportunity to ask the question: what is the government's view of further enlargement in the Western Balkans? I have one last question. When it comes to Turkey, we have somewhat the same objections as the Left Party. It strongly condemns Turkey's action in the eastern Mediterranean. There, therefore, a consensus can be reached within the Council – it works. But you cannot condemn Turkey in Syria.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-285	Madam President, I would like In the last part, Greece and Cyprus had requested support for what is happening in the Aegean Sea and in the eastern Mediterranean. That is why it was raised. The meeting did not intend to discuss the EU's entire relationship with Turkey, but this issue was raised for that reason. The EU is still expressing and again firmly believing that what is happening in Syria is wrong. That's why we say that. That is exactly the same answer as to Jonas Sjöstedt. As far as the parties and the employment authority are concerned, it is again dependent on what that authority should do. That authority should not take over anything; we have said that from the beginning when the social pillar began to be discussed, and it is understood that we should retain our Swedish model. This does not mean a redeployment of mandates between Sweden and the EU. If it is the case that this authority does not take over anything that the parties are now doing, I am also absolutely convinced that there will be no problem for the parties.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-289	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the European Council's report. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank both the Prime Minister and Commissioner for Trade Cecilia Malmström for the hard work that has been done to avoid the devastating steel tariffs. Now we don't really know if this is going to carry all the way through, but you have to say so father, so good. I would also like to hope for a renaissance of political craftsmanship in which we can actually change things through urgent work, through negotiations and with respect for the other party. The black and white solutions, to shout and shout, can often seem powerful, but it rarely leads to any improvements and does not make any difference. I would therefore very much like to hope for a different system, in which political craftsmanship was more respected. Similarly, the long-term budget is obvious. Here there are 27 countries that will have very different entrances to that work. Then it is important that we actually discuss with each other and that we understand each other's starting points. Now the Prime Minister says that it seems that the Commission understands how we in Sweden think a little more. Having a clear position when entering a negotiation is a successful way of working. You cannot start by shouting about inserting vetoes, but of course you have to discuss and negotiate. It's the best thing for Sweden. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström once again. Steel tariffs would be devastating. We know what it looked like in the 1930s and what it led to.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-294	Madam President, I would like That is quite correct. I share the view that it is still dialogue and political work that makes a difference in the long term. It is easy to dissipate the most bold sentences and have most exclamation marks. It may be the simple part of politics, but the question is where it leads. Now let us hope that the dialogue with the United States continues and that we can create an atmosphere, a climate, that we can say that we should work together to deal with the overproduction of steel. It has been a good collaboration internally with both Cecilia Malmström and Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, whom I think has really done a good job. I want them to pay tribute to that. The same applies to the long-term budget, but now that issue was not raised here. But that question is based on the same thing. Somewhere we have to look at which whole is good Sweden. It's there somewhere we have to land. We have been clear that Sweden does not intend to take the bill because the UK is leaving the EU. This must reasonably mean that less revenue will result in less expenditure. It's a normal economic equation. We should hold it while being clear that EU cooperation is good and important for our country. Then it is important to ensure that we get out of the process with something that is good for Sweden. I believe that there is a somewhat greater understanding of our arguments now, but it will certainly be a tough process. It is certain that the Commission's proposal will not lead to great cheering in Sweden at the first stage. Then we must continue to discuss and grind until we get to a situation where we take responsibility for both the whole, because the EU is so important to us, and that Sweden does not take the bill for a country leaving the EU. Somewhere there must be the balance.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-299	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer! We must certainly hope that this will win, that we will succeed both in keeping steel tariffs away from us and in having a favourable outcome to the long-term budget. One of the issues also discussed at the summit was taxation. Taxation is generally a good thing. But why should some companies be taxed lower than others, such as Google, Facebook and so on? The question is how best to achieve this tax, whether it is at European level or through OECD solutions. It must be a very important issue to discuss in the future. I know that the Commission wants turnover tax while it would be more reasonable to levy profit tax, and so on. But here diplomacy is needed to arrive at a good solution. Increased taxation is good, but it must also be functional.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-303	Madam President, I would like I share the view that this too is a balancing process. It is clear that even in a digital economy it must be fair taxation. As I said, it is a major problem when companies operating in the digital economy can make huge profits in the market without paying any tax. They may pay a third as much tax here in the EU as other companies. Then, too, welfare suffers. The government has pointed out that we see, first and foremost, a global solution, that is, within the framework of the work carried out by the OECD. Then it will be a global solution to a global problem. However, if there is no solution there, because some players are opposed, we need to look at whether there is an opportunity within the framework of the European Union to find a solution. Then we have to look at whether something we are doing would make it more difficult for the European Union, whether it would be a disproportionate responsibility for the European Union or whether it is too small to deal with such a solution. Then we have to watch out. Therefore, there must be a careful analysis.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is gratifying that Europe received the exemption from the threatening customs duties announced by the Prime Minister here and which we have seen through the press. At the same time, however, there is still a threat because the derogation granted to Europe is temporary. It is also a threat that there have been proposals, or proposals, for new tariffs from the American continent. This is a serious threat to the growth that we need and want in all parts of the world. Free trade is part of getting the growth we want. My question relates above all to growth. There are signs that Europe cannot hold together, that is to say that the Commission is not the representative we have said the Commission should be in representing Europe on trade issues. It may seem attractive for some Member States to seek bilateral solutions in one way or another. What does it look like, Prime Minister? Are there signs that there are Member States that want to seek bilateral solutions to avoid the threats that could cause problems with growth in Europe?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-310	Madam President, I would like I share Mr Erlandsson's view that the threat remains. We really need to understand that it's not over. Now we need to keep this up and ensure that dialogue develops in such a way that there is a permanent exception and that the EU and the US can cooperate instead of fighting each other. Otherwise, it's a dangerous road. Unfortunately, there is protectionism on various trade issues, not just for steel. There are other things too, and it is really important to watch out. As I reported at the meeting of the European Council last Wednesday, we see some questions about the WTO, how the WTO works and risks not working in any year unless a judge is appointed to resolve disputes. It's an even bigger threat. I fully share the view that those of us who are free trade-friendly must really stand up to this threat. With regard to the cohesion of the European Union, I had no feeling at this meeting that there were some who felt attracted. But that's not to say that there wouldn't be. Well, I don't know. On the other hand, I heard about a country that had been offered a unilateral derogation that turned down – for the reason that the EU should stick together. It truly honors that country if that rumor is true. It's also a secondary rumor. There are a lot of rumours and speculations here, but I can say with my heart that there were no such signs during this European Council to do otherwise. Of course, I cannot give any guarantees, but I did not get that feeling at this meeting.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-315	Madam President, I would like I'm glad. Then I'll quote the old statement: ..................................................... So let me turn to the second big and important thing at the European Council, namely the Salisbury attack. It is good that the European Council could jointly condemn the attack. Were there any Member States who referred to the congratulations that the President of the Commission expressed to Putin on the occasion of the Russian elections and at the same time avoided condemning the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula? The congratulations of the President of the Commission take a bit of the condemnation that Europe has made of the Salisbury attack.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-318	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that a very clear message was received from the European Union towards Russia that the attack is unacceptable and that we are 100% behind Britain. We took a decision to call the ambassador back for consultation, and we are continuing the discussion today on what can be done further. That is a clear mark. The answer to the question is no. No one brought up Juncker's congratulations. It was his decision entirely. As far as the annexation of Crimea is concerned, however, the EU is very clear. That is why the sanctions persist. There is no doubt that the Commission fully supports the sanctions adopted and that they will remain in place until the reason for them has disappeared.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-322	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your accounting, Prime Minister. It is a good thing that we get these accounts and in that way have transparency about what is happening in Europe. What I want to talk about here is Turkey. The previous speakers were concerned about this, but then more about what we are going to pay in the light of the human rights abuses committed by Turkey. Developments in Turkey are regrettable. Around the turn of the millennium and the years after, Turkey developed towards democracy, but for the last ten years it has turned 180 degrees. It has only become worse and worse with the abuse of journalists and large professional groups and so on. The European Court of Human Rights has raised a number of cases. Turkey is the worst in terms of human rights violations. That is why we in the Liberals wanted the negotiations on EU membership to be suspended. However, the Prime Minister has said earlier that he is pleased that the negotiations have been suspended and that doors must be left open to Turkey. Does the Prime Minister take the same view today?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-326	Madam President, I would like Barbro Westerholm is absolutely right – it is going the wrong way in Turkey, no doubt about it. We have also pointed this out, and we continue to point this out. When it comes to paying, I think it is important that we agree that what is paid for refugees, that goes to refugees. I think that's important. Should this end, we will have a disastrous situation, especially for those people. That would not be good; that would be a disaster. With regard to the question of EU membership, we have a system for how possible membership can be achieved at all. You have to follow it. You follow a handrail, if I may call it that, for which chapters can be opened at any time. This is based on fulfilling a number of our basic human rights, democratic rights and so on. There I think we have what is needed to ensure this – that you cannot become a member if you do not meet those conditions. That is also the clear message to Turkey: in this direction there can be no membership, because it is going the wrong way. Instead, if you close the door, will it be better? The opposition in Turkey says no. That would not be good for them, because then they will have no alternative in the internal political debate. Then they cannot say that, if we do this, we actually have this opportunity ahead of us. I remember very well the meeting of the former Prime Minister Davutoulus with the European Council. He described the difficult situation that Turkey is seeing around it, in its vicinity. What are the economic realities? Yeah, not brilliant. Where's the best option? Actually, it's in the West. Should you cut that line and say that it is now out of the picture, then at least large parts of the opposition say that it is not good. At least the people we have contact with from my party say that it would not be good.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-331	Madam President, I would like My second question concerns the customs settlement. It was gratifying that Cecilia Malmström managed to produce a respite in five weeks. However, five weeks is a very short time, and this is not just about the EU and customs, but about world trade. For example, the car industry is affected if we change customs duties. There is a great difference between the US and the EU, but if you change it there, it will have repercussions on world trade in that area.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-334	Madam President, I would like As far as the European Union is concerned, it is just as has been pointed out very little time. Now time has to be used to consolidate that dialogue is the best thing and to get the most common perception of reality possible. I think I mentioned it in the EU Council: measuring trade surpluses and deficits today is not the same as 20 years ago. It's something completely different because the value chain looks completely different, so the numbers aren't quite the same. Only that, at least to get the same perception of reality, would actually be a step forward. Maybe it could reinforce the dialogue. What concerns world trade is also quite correct. That is why we are so stubbornly pushing that the WTO system must work. We must return to multilateral trading systems, strengthen the WTO and ensure that those rules work and that the dispute settlement mechanisms work. We are constantly trying to bring the discussion back there to ensure that the WTO is the best institution for this.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was a summit where many major and important issues were on the agenda. In most of the questions, the Christian Democrats share the line taken by the government. This applies not least to the question of the US safeguard tariffs and the EU's response to the poison attack that Russia is supposed to be behind. It has been up to several previous lines with several other questioners. I was going to ask you a question about the Brexit negotiations. There it was gratifying that, in the run-up to the summit, we had a first agreement on the terms of withdrawal between the European Union and the United Kingdom. It is an important step forward, but there are still many difficult parts to this. One can say that there are at least two different aspects to the negotiations ahead. One is what is usually said about Britain not being able to pick the raisins out of the cake or choose just a few of the four freedoms. That is one aspect. Another is that the UK is an important partner country to the EU, especially and to a large extent to Sweden, and also an important trading partner. As I understand it, there are different views among the Member States as to which of these aspects should be emphasised in front of the other. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, on the one hand, how difficult it is for the remaining Member States to reach a united line towards the United Kingdom and, on the other, how any difficulties affect negotiations with the United Kingdom.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-341	Madam President, I would like Yes, we agree on the US safeguard tariffs and the Russian action in Salisbury. In the case of Brexit, the exit conditions are not fully in place, not 100%. What remains, the big question, is still Ireland and Northern Ireland. But we have received good assurances from Theresa May that it will be resolved. If Northern Ireland and Ireland are to stick together and Northern Ireland is not to go out, so to speak, there will be a border in the water between the islands. That is the situation at the moment, and it is a perfectly possible solution. Gibraltar, too, remains a geographical issue. The transition seems quite clear. As far as the new relations are concerned, it is precisely the guidelines for them that are described here. There's a consensus here. We have now noted that the UK wants out of both the Union and the internal market. This means that it is a free trade agreement that we are looking at. We want this to be generous in the sense that it should cover both goods and services in as many areas as possible without tariffs, i.e. tariffs. So to speak, we want it to be zero. At the same time, however, we can see that this means that the UK and the EU will have different external relations. This automatically means that there will be friction in the trade. There must be some kind of control system here. We no longer have a common legal system; we no longer have a common dispute settlement mechanism. It will mean that there will be things that we have to deal with and solve. We have to prepare for that. If Britain should change its position from hard Brexit to something else, we are prepared to correct the guidelines accordingly, but the consensus is in the conclusions.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I would also like to ask a question about what the Prime Minister mentioned in his re-report about his getting a progress report on the state of play in the negotiations on the common asylum system, which is another important and highly topical issue within the Union. As I understand it, the message was that the Bulgarian Presidency is working on this and that the intensity will increase in the coming months, as we must hope with the objective that has been expressed – that this will be ready by mid-year.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-349	Madam President, I would like The main track is that the Presidency is working on what has been done before and trying to clear out a few things to clarify what options there are, to simplify the process. It is important that not only some countries represent the desire, but the European Union as a whole must stand for our desire to achieve this. That is why I have asked the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission a question again on this very subject. There is a clear ambition that we should be ready by June. That is also their commitment. In the meantime, we are not sitting still, but we are discussing, above all, with those closest to us who feel the same way, what proposals we can make to speed up and facilitate the process. Of course we should have a dialogue with those who think a little differently too. For example, I had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Poland on Friday morning.
i-AyGGnnJKaEe77aFMnDpRQy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the European Council report. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for all the answers he has so far given to the questions that have been asked. I am not going to repeat any of them, but I am going to touch on another area that the Prime Minister himself raised, namely the development of digital technology and the opportunities and challenges it presents us with. This is, for example, about the issue of taxation, but also about the protection of personal integrity. I wanted to ask whether the Prime Minister could reflect a little more of the reactions and discussions on the Commission's proposal, presented last week, on how to get digital companies to be taxed at the same level as traditional companies. I suspect that this was discussed at the Council meeting. It is important for us at home in Sweden to get a picture of how other countries are discussing this issue, so that we can position ourselves and contribute positive solutions to this challenge. Madam President, I would like Could the Prime Minister reflect a little more of the reactions and discussions on the taxation of digital companies?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-355	Madam President, I would like This is not specifically mentioned in the conclusions, but it is a matter of privacy, how data should be processed and so on. There will be a more in-depth discussion on this issue, and we will come back to it in Sofia in May. As far as taxation is concerned, it was raised and the Commission is presenting a proposal. There are differences of opinion here. Some think that we should work on this, while others say that it is very doubtful. Some may even be opposed, while others stand and weigh. There's a little ambivalence here-- there's no doubt about it. From the Swedish side we have expressed that we primarily want to see a global solution, because it is a global problem. The digital economy is not European but global, and that means that if you make mistakes there, the EU can be disbanded. That is why we would like to seek a solution in the work currently under way within the OECD. However, there are strong forces that do not want such a solution and that think that the current situation is good. That means you can get standing there and nothing happens. That is why we think it is good to be able to say: Okay, we are ready to look at an EU solution as well. However, it must be analysed very carefully so that we do not have a situation in which the EU as a whole or Member States are disproportionately disadvantaged, because then we have done ourselves no service at all. Then there'll be a blow to the air, and we'll stab ourselves in the foot. That would, of course, be unfortunate. This is the case with the discussions on the issue of taxation.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-360	Madam President, I would like Does the Prime Minister have any idea how the discussion will proceed? Is there a known agenda, or does it come up at regular advice in the future?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-361	Madam President, I would like I don't have it exactly in my head right now. But this is going to the Council first-- it's not coming back to us. Then there is the usual procedure between the Commission and the Council, and Parliament will certainly be involved. I don't have the timetable in my head and I don't know exactly what it looks like. As usual, we must be very active here and hold on to our position while showing that we are pragmatists. We see a problem and we have to do something about it. We prefer a global solution, but if it does not work, we must try something else. However, this must not mean that the EU as a whole or countries are being disparaged in a disproportionate way.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reporting back! I would like to come back to a small part that the Prime Minister went through quite quickly, namely that the President said in the invitation that you would also talk about the migration issue and the asylum package. And you did. There have been discussions for two years. A promise has been made – or at least it has been suggested – that the whole issue will land in the June summit. It is not many months away, and I would like the Prime Minister to develop a little more what happened in that respect.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-366	Madam President, I would like I also chose to hold a meeting with Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker separately on two different occasions, in order to keep that issue up. As I said, the Presidency has taken over the work, is now pushing to see if it is possible to simplify and arrive at clear positions and talk with everyone involved. I have been confirmed by both the President of the Commission and the President of the European Council that this is an issue to be decided on. There is no other agenda, which was important to me. This must not be an issue where some countries – Sweden, Germany and some others – push on while others sit and do nothing. The responsibility lies there, and it has been acknowledged. Let's assume it's handled seriously. I know that Bulgaria is working systematically and purposefully on this, but there is no doubt that it is a very complex issue. We shouldn't underestimate it, but I feel the responsibility lies there. As I said, we are still working with Germany, Holland and others to see what we can contribute with more in the process. We also keep in touch with those who feel differently from us to see how we can bridge this and where a compromise can land. Because it has to be a compromise. That was the discussion, but as I said, it was not given much time during this meeting.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-370	Madam President, I would like I have a brief supplementary question to the Prime Minister: did they discuss various contributions in the form of financial assistance to those countries that feel most vulnerable?
i-b54c184bdc45f836-371	Madam President, I would like No, not at all at that level. It is a discussion that has existed on other occasions – how to support the countries where the most people come, for example, where more border surveillance is needed or what may now be required. There was no such discussion at all at this meeting.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-372	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures the government intends to take to put an end to mosquito problems and whether the government intends to change the conditions for applying for mosquito control grants from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Furthermore, Lars Beckman asks what measures the government intends to take within a reasonable time, since effective mosquito control is based on the government and other authorities acting on time. Lars Beckman also wonders what is the government's long-term solution to the mosquito problem and whether I am ready to authorise pesticides for five-year periods. Finally, Lars Beckman wonders what I want to do to facilitate living in mosquito-tight areas. I recently answered a parliamentary question with some of the same content as this interpellation. The government, like the previous alliance government, believes that the problems of flood mosquitoes are partly a regional issue and best dealt with on the basis of the region's unique conditions. The Government has previously provided financial support for the preventive work with mosquito control, partly through the l andsbygdsprogrammet and partly through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The financial support is formulated in the regulation letter to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for the current year, in g od time before the mosquito season. Within the rural programme there has been a contribution to mosquito control at the lower Dalälven river for a number of years. During the spring of 2018, the Swedish Board of Agriculture will announce approximately SEK 3 million for this purpose within the framework of the l andsbygdsprogrammet. Long-term work includes the government's creation of nodes for knowledge and research on methods to reduce the presence of flood mosquitoes. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has for many years paid out support for mosquito control and analyses of the effects of the control. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decides on the terms and conditions, and I have not received any indication that the authority will change the conditions for applying for a mosquito control allowance. The state has thus taken responsibility for a long time. This government has also made further efforts compared to the previous alliance government, including by appointing the relevant county boards as nodes for knowledge in the field and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as the responsible authority to monitor the state of research in the field of control and other long-term preventive measures. As regards the exemption from the ban on the application of pesticides from aircraft, the Environmental Protection Agency is the deciding authority. If, at the same time, this measure can have a significant impact on the environment of a Natura 2000 site, it is the same authority, i.e. the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, that will test the Natura 2000 permit. If the Authority considers that the initial authorisation cannot be granted without the permission of the Government, the matter will be submitted to the Government. The government's admissibility test in accordance with Chapter 7. Paragraph 29 of the Environmental Code for the control of caterpillars of flood mosquitoes in the lower Dalälven flood plains is in progress, and I cannot anticipate this test. The application for exemption and Natura 2000 permit received by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency applies for the dissemination of Vectobac G against flood mosquitoes at the lower Dalälven for one year, i.e. in 2018. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has submitted the question to the Government regarding admissibility for such permission only in 2018. How an issue of admissibility to a Natura 2000 permit for five years would be assessed I cannot decide in advance.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-375	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Society for Mosquito Control, which is sitting in the gallery and which also had the opportunity to speak a little with the Government before this interpellation debate. Madam President, I would like Of course, this should not be a partisan issue, i.e. that one should be able to live and live in the whole of Sweden. It may seem obvious to us that this should be the case. But for those who live in certain localities in Värmland or for those who live at the lower Dalälven and have experienced the mosquito plague that has existed for a long time before this technical pesticide solution was found, it is terrible. I was born and raised in Norrbotten and have experienced mosquitoes in Överkalix can ensure that there is a big difference between the mosquitoes in Överkalix and the mosquitoes at the lower Dalälven. The big difference is that the mosquitoes at the lower Dalälven are very aggressive and sting directly. The reason for my previous written question and this interpellation is, of course, that the issue is not solved for this summer. The residents at the lower Dalälven now have to think about how this summer will be and have daily discussions about it. As soon as we enter April, residents should be able to know that they will have a mosquito-free summer. But they do not know. I find it very unfortunate that this government has reduced the state budget. Åsa Romson reduced the funding from 4 to 3 million. I think she said you can rely on the weather. Then there was an extreme summer of mosquitoes, and I think money was paid out. Now it is said that there are 3.3 million to apply, but in reality it is 2.4 million because it takes 900 000 SEK in co-financing. Last week, when I was talking to the control organisation before this interpellation debate about how to search, if the money is fixed and so on, they said they don't know it. It is unfortunate that we have not found a long-term solution to this issue. I also think it is to be expected that there will be no smaller mosquitoes in Sweden but that there will be more places where these mosquitoes will continue. I therefore believe that we must have a national contingency plan for it and that it is a national issue. The Government speaks of alternative solutions in its response. We can then, for example, note that the municipality has said that the measures taken in Forshaga and Deje over the last four years have not worked. It has not worked with open landscapes and mowings to fight mosquitoes, and now even in Värmland it is noted that pesticides must be used. It is very likely that more municipalities and more regions will be looking for money from the government subsidies that have been reduced. I find that unfortunate. I believe that the state must find a long-term solution and that we must allocate enough money. Why should the government do that? For example, at the lower Dalälven, the state owns about half of the large areas where mosquitoes are located. It is therefore perfectly reasonable for the State to take at least half the financial responsibility.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-386	Madam President, I would like I fully share Lars Beckman's view that this is a type of issue that should not be party-separated, and I note that it is not. It is very clear when you look at the history. Governments have dealt with this issue in exactly the same way regardless of which parties have joined these governments. The question is divided. It is a regional responsibility, and it is also a national responsibility. That is why there is state money to support those regions where this problem is really being tackled. What distinguishes this government's action from that of previous governments is that we have made it clearer in terms of the division of responsibilities, so that it is clear that it is the Environmental Protection Agency that has the national interest. We have also identified regional nodes for the collection of knowledge and the development of methods. This is because finding the right methods requires knowledge of the landscape's design and changes, and it is where the fastest way to collect signals from municipalities has tested something and has experience from it. That is why we regard it as incredibly important that it is regional nodes that are responsible for this development work. One should not think that you solve this issue in one way and then run on over and over again. Rather, it is important to build experience and adapt if you learn more or if development in some part changes. There is also new research from other parts of the world, and it is an entry point in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's mission to follow it so that we, if relevant, get that knowledge home to Sweden. Again, this is not a partisan question. There is a consensus that this is a shared responsibility between the regions and the state, and the state is active by allocating funds.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-391	Madam President, I would like Let us state that there is a method that really works and that it is the pesticide BTI. If there are then other pesticides or other technical solutions, I do not think anyone would have anything against it, but so far there is a means that works. This means is well-proven. It has been used in Germany for over 30 years, and it has been researched for a very long time. It has been found that BTI is a natural bacterium that attacks the very aggressive mosquito. I will not say that the Government speaks with double tongues, but I can note that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency obviously has not understood the signals from the government. You are saying that you are acting in the same way as the Alliance Government did, Minister. I read an interview with an administrator at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It was about whether to grant multi-annual permits, and the administrator said to SVT: Given that the government wants to reduce the use of BTI in the long term, the agency finds it difficult to say yes to multi-annual BTI-fighting. This is a clear message from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. If the Government has a different view, it should, of course, be clarified to the Authority. There are two pieces in this. One is the long-term financing, where the state has to take at least half the responsibility, and the other is the multi-annual permit periods. A third important issue is, of course, not to reduce the area where the control takes place, because Sweden's most experienced mosquito researchers say that there is a risk that the control that takes place on the second surface will not be effective enough. This is about the people who live in the area. One should be able to have a decent living environment and look forward to the summer as the rest of us do. You shouldn't have to worry about the summer being destroyed by mosquitoes. But it is also a question of animals, Madam President. It is about the cows, horses and other animals that are present in the area and which of course should also have a decent summer. It is therefore a question of both humans and animals. There are now major problems for the summer. The organisation that will handle the control this summer has not understood who to turn to to get the funds, when to do so, how to requisition it and when to do so in time. Clearly, then, there are major communication difficulties from our authorities. In addition, the government has cut the amount from 4 million to 2.4 million, and in Värmland it has been said that it did not work. The technical solutions used did not work. It is even said in a newspaper article in NWT. It says, the municipality poodles, and then: We have failed and do not have the knowledge needed to fight the sting mosquitoes. The municipality of Forshaga now admits, uncircumcisedly, that LPG traps, lattice and grazing cows do not help against the mosquito plague. ..................................................... So it doesn't help. It would therefore be interesting to hear more from the Government about the other technical solutions, in addition to that, as she suggests in her reply. However, there is one method that works. There is a method that really helps the residents at the lower Dalälven, in Värmland and elsewhere, and it is the pesticide BTI. I very much hope that the Government and the Government will now come to the fore so that everyone who lives in the area can look forward to a warm, lovely and beautiful summer – a mosquito-free summer, just like the rest of us.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-401	Madam President, I would like Now Lars Beckman brings together various issues and different processes in a way that I do not think helps those who live in this area and possibly listen to the debate. There are two different parts to this issue. One is about means, i.e. money, for mosquito control. There, each government has acted in the same way in recent times: funds have been made available in two ways, in the rural programme and to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. As I said earlier and as Lars Beckman has written in front of him, we have allocated these funds in our regulation letter to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. They're in place. There the government has acted in the same way as previous governments. Then there is the question of environmental permits to use a specific pesticide in a protected natural area. It's coming from below. What you are looking for, what means you are looking for and when you are looking for is a question for the applicant, but there is such an application on the government table. We handle it in order, and I cannot comment on it because it is a matter of authorisation. Again, this is not a partisan question. We're all in complete agreement. When we say that you should be able to live and work throughout Sweden, we mean every place in Sweden. It is clearly a question of quality of life but of course also of economic activity and the possibility of living and working throughout the year – not least for those who have animals and care for these animals. Equally obvious is the use of chemical pesticides. Here, too, this government is not different from previous governments, because this is actually based on legislation that has been in force all along and is now in force. In principle, it can be summed up as keeping the use of pesticides down. One should constantly evaluate and look at which other methods can minimise the need for pesticides. It doesn't have to be replaced, but you have to minimize the need. It is being tried in a certain order; that is why we have a specific environmental assessment of these substances. It is not specific to this issue and not specifically to this government, but it is fundamental principles that are laid down in the law that Parliament has decided. Nor do I see any drama in that part – of course, one should not look at this issue statically. Among other things, because the climate changes, we must follow developments, and we have made sure that it is done through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and regional nodes so that you get solutions that work at the respective place. In addition to the media data mentioned here, there are also data from each county administrative board, which also monitors these issues and acts as a link from the regions into the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and into the region. There are reports of experience in the regions, and I can see that these reports are not entirely in line with what is said in this House today.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-408	Madam President, I would like Let us note that there is a means that works and that it is called BTI. That pesticide has been tested in Germany, and it has been researched for over 30 years. It is a very good means that really works. Madam President, I would like If you cut from 4 million to 2.4 million, it will of course have consequences, not so much for the state budget – to be honest, I think a few million is miscalculation money, Madam President – but for the lower Dalälven business it is very important. It can mean the difference between mosquito plague and no mosquito plague. If you can spray a larger area or a smaller area, it can make a difference when it comes to the mosquito plague. It is therefore very important how the government acts. Then I can say that the Government says that there is no difference between the parties. I think that's good. I think it is good if we have a common view that we should be able to live and live everywhere in Sweden. I can also note that the Government's agency Environmental Protection Agency has said in an interview to SVT that it does not want to grant multi-annual permits because the government wants to reduce the use of BTI, that is, the pesticides that actually work. On the day there is another pesticide or other solution that works, those living at the lower Dalälven probably want nothing more than that pesticides should not be used in their vicinity. But there are no other pesticides. Here the state has a huge responsibility to ensure that you can live and live throughout Sweden and that you can live and live at the lower Dalälven. I think that these things must come into place by the summer of this year, out of respect for those who live in this area, so that they can feel safe and know that they are having a wonderful summer. There must also be a long-term solution that provides breathing space for a number of years to come.
i-b54c184bdc45f836-413	Madam President, I would like As I have repeated, there is no partisan picture of reality. It is important that we act jointly, both nationally and regionally. It is incredibly important that people throughout our country can live well and look forward to a lovely summer. I want to make it clear, not least to those affected locally, that in the 2018 regulation letter for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency there is no ceiling on the possibility of providing funds to limit the mass presence of one of the flood mosquitoes from the grant 1:3 Measures for valuable nature. The situation may be assessed from year to year and the necessary means given. This varies tremendously from year to year – it's good to know for everyone who doesn't have their place of residence in these parts and who doesn't have clear experiences. We have seen from the government that there is an opportunity to apply for funds. This possibility is in place, and then we deal with a specific issue of action with a special means. There is clear experience from other countries. There are research results that give a clear picture that not only is there a single solution that works everywhere, but there are various measures that have an effect. Some can work in conjunction with pesticides, thereby reducing the need to use pesticides, while others – under certain geographical conditions – can lead to the absence of pesticide use at all. Of course, in Sweden we will look at all parts and use the precautionary principle, which is fundamental in all measures for the environment and in nature.
