i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-4	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I plan to take to ensure the competitiveness of rural businesses if the government introduces a truck tax, and if Swedish hauliers will be compensated in any way if the government introduces such a tax. The Ministry of Finance has referred a memo on a new approach to the taxation of heavy goods vehicles. Pro memorian deals with a read-out of road wear tax with the aim of creating equal competition and order in the haulage industry. The road user tax is proposed to cover a limited part of the road network and to be differentiated between rural and urban areas. The construction of the technical system of taxation will provide information on transport throughout the country and will allow greater enforcement of the rules of the operators involved in heavy road transport. On the one hand, the police's roadside checks can be coordinated, and on the other hand, the automatic control stations also offer technical and practical possibilities to control, for example, cabotage transport, as has been requested by Swedish hauliers. I look forward to hearing the views of the consultation bodies and can already note that Sweden's Åkeri companies have welcomed the proposal. The government will take into account the responses of the consultation bodies regarding the impact on rural conditions, especially for those industries and those parts of rural areas where trucks are the only option.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. You have been investigating a truck tax for almost four years and have announced that it will be introduced in one way or another. The Minister says in his reply that the mileage tax should create equal competition and order in the haulage industry. The Minister's and government's weapons to improve competitiveness are apparently new and higher taxes. If we want to strengthen the competitiveness of the haulage industry and companies in Sweden, we do not do so by raising or introducing new taxes. They are already very high today. Why has the government said no to, for example, our proposal to investigate the competitiveness of the haulage industry? The Moderates and the Alliance have demanded such an investigation, but you have refused to appoint and carry it out. Why do you not want to investigate the competitive position of the haulage industry rather than just introducing new taxes? Why have you tried to refuse to put alcoboms at our ports and border stations so that we can stop alcoholic drivers trying to get into the country? Instead, you propose new taxes. You refuse to increase the salaries of our police officers so that more people stay and more people can carry out checks on illegal professional traffic on our roads. Instead, you propose new taxes. Why has the government not ensured that vehicles are properly trampled until fines and charges are fully paid? You are now proposing only 36 hours and new taxes. Why have you not reduced fuel taxes to increase the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry and companies? Instead, you propose new and higher fuel taxes. Daily we receive reports of alcohol-affected drivers who have caused accidents on our roads, and instead of increasing alcohol controls, you have cut back on these checks and instead propose higher taxes. When we Moderates proposed that we put a gps-puck in foreign trucks so that we can charge tolls, congestion taxes and possibly fines, you say no to this proposal and instead propose higher taxes. You have not given the go-ahead for longer trucks in Sweden, which could increase the competitiveness of Swedish hauliers. Instead, you propose new taxes. Instead of really tackling the problems that are out there that create illegal traffic and an uneven competitive situation, you are dealing with one thing: investigating new taxes. Competition on our roads is fierce, and anyone who can cheat on laws and taxes can compete with the legal transport, but instead of putting in power and more police, you are proposing more taxes. For a while I thought it was to be able to rule with the Green Party, which seems to be more worth than what is going on for Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. But now I understand more and more that the Social Democrats really want to make it more expensive to transport by truck here in Sweden. They want to make transport even more expensive for our Swedish companies. Does the Minister think that the haulage industry and companies can withstand even higher taxes and charges? Do you think that road haulage and companies currently have too low taxes? Do you think that diesel taxes should be reduced if necessary? How will you strengthen competitiveness with new and higher taxes on truck transport? And why, Minister, have you not carried out the competitiveness inquiry for Swedish haulage industry requested by the M oderatians, A Lliansen and the Swedish Parliament? Why do you refuse to do this? Instead, you only propose new taxes.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-23	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden is worried about jobs and growth in Sweden. It is of course good that we can have a discussion on how to strengthen the conditions for jobs and growth in Sweden. I have listened to moderate Members of Parliament for three and a half years as Minister of Finance. On almost every occasion, these Moderates tend to argue that government policies will undermine opportunities to start up businesses and reduce opportunities for employment in Sweden. During the three-and-a-half years that the Moderates have claimed that the government's policy destroys the opportunities for jobs and growth in Sweden, we have repeatedly seen how growth and employment are rising and how more jobs are created. In these three and a half years we have had good growth and record employment growth. A quarter of a million more people go to work than when we took office, and we see that Swedish business is flourishing. The Swedish haulage industry also needs to have the opportunity to flourish. That is not the case today. They are seriously affected by unfair competition from foreign hauliers, who often do not comply with the rules that we have in Sweden. Therefore, the government has taken important steps to reduce opportunities for unfair competition. It is about additional resources to review foreign hauliers and higher demands on those who procure or order transport, and we extend the time for classing. We have taken a number of measures, but it is clear that more needs to be done. In this situation, the Moderates want us to investigate the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry, but it is an investigation that risks taking a long time. Instead, we think it is important to be able to move forward with a clearer control of the foreign lorries that travel on our roads. This is a view that Swedish haulage industry seems to share with the government. About 18 per cent of road work in Sweden is carried out with foreign trucks. My view, which is apparently different from that of the Moderates, is that these foreign trucks should be involved in helping to maintain the Swedish road network.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-29	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Once again, the Minister and the Government are trying to beat themselves to the heart of the prosperity that prevails in the world and claim that it is due to the Social Democratic Government in Sweden. I may be bringing news, but the boom in the world is not due to the Social Democratic Government in Sweden, but simply because it is a boom. In this situation, the Social Democratic Government is engaged in plundering companies and individuals for money, which means that Swedish companies will be less equipped to cope with it than foreign companies are at the time of the recession. This is what will happen, and we will see the outcome of the next recession. Madam President, I would like Sweden already has Europe's highest fuel taxes. We certainly also have some of Europe's worst controls on our roads. Instead of tackling this problem, the government is trying to impose another tax. The government has not prioritised either police or more roadside checks during this period. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, illegal shipments can be driven right through border stations, illegal vehicles can drive around and illegal shipments can be driven in the country, and taxes and regulations can be ignored, drugs sold and contrabands sold, stolen and then just left the country. While this happens, our government is investigating new taxes for Swedish haulage industry that will risk and jeopardise jobs and companies in Sweden. On Sunday 9 September this year, we can replace this paralysed government. Let's really do that. The difference in Europe in terms of diesel and Swedish haulage can be up to SEK 4. This, Madam President, could mean an extra 240 000 SEK in diesel costs for a Swedish haulage company that drives up 60 000 litres per year – 20 000 km with 3 litres per mile – compared to a foreign haulage company. This is an enormous cost for Swedish hauliers. We know that foreign hauliers often bring their own diesel into our country and compete with the Swedish. Instead of looking at the competitive situation, the government is looking at how to introduce additional taxes on the haulage industry here in Sweden. Ultimately, this affects rural areas and businesses that depend on transport functioning. After the closure of rural businesses, the Social Democrats intend to compensate it with new government agencies and agencies. Please remove authorities and works from Stockholm, but stop killing the activities that already exist in the countryside with new and higher taxes from the Social Democrats! Madam President, I would like I did not get the answers to the four questions I asked at the beginning. Therefore, I would like to repeat them so that the Minister can reply: does the Minister think that the haulage industry and companies can withstand even higher taxes and charges? Do you think that road haulage and companies currently have too low taxes? Will you reduce diesel taxes to compensate the haulage industry in Sweden? How will you strengthen the competitiveness of new and higher taxes for truck transport? I would like answers to this, but I would also like answers to why the competition investigation that we commissioned two years ago has not been reviewed, which Parliament has supported and wants to carry out, but which the government has refused to carry out in order to really compare Swedish haulage with foreign haulage.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-38	Madam President, I would like When we discuss this issue, we need to take on board the technological developments that we see for both cars and heavy vehicles. We see a clear shift to more efficient engines. We are also seeing a shift towards more electric vehicles. With more efficient engines, emissions are reduced, which is one of the purposes of such a tax. When emissions are reduced, you also pay less excise duty on the fuel you have. Therefore, with a combination of a more efficient vehicle fleet and a road wear tax, it is not certain that the overall levy would increase. This, of course, needs to be looked at when discussing which is the best way to use the revenue that can be obtained from road wear taxes. It may be that the haulage industry believes that it is important to strengthen the road network. Of course, we can also look at other options such as vehicle tax. Does competitiveness need to be strengthened? My assessment – and it also seems to be the assessment of the Swedish haulage industry – is that a road wear tax is something that would strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. It therefore surprises me very much that the Moderates, who here talk about the importance of competitiveness for the haulage industry, are against this measure. Swedish haulage industry itself believes that the measure could strengthen their competitiveness in relation to foreign hauliers. Sten Bergheden also does not wish to comment on the fact that 18 per cent of the road work is carried out by foreign hauliers. Why should we not seize the opportunity to allow them to contribute to the maintenance of our roads? Sten Bergheden says that the government does nothing about the police. We have made very substantial contributions to the police during this term of office – more at the end than at the beginning, of course, because the Moderates left behind a very large deficit in public finances. We also have a special addition precisely to work against illegal cabotage. Sten Bergheden is confident that this tax will affect rural areas, but it depends precisely on how the tax will be designed and on which roads the tax will be levied. It also depends on how to differentiate charges between rural and urban areas and, of course, whether revenue can be used in such a way as to improve the road network in rural and sparsely populated areas, which is something that is very much in demand in those parts of the country. The most amazing thing that Sten Bergheden says, however, is that he believes that the taxation of companies is equal to the plundering of them. Is this the moderate view of taxation – that it is looting?
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-45	Madam President, I would like I can begin by answering the Minister about the haulage companies and the haulage companies. I have been in contact with many haulage companies around the country, and they certainly do not back up the idea of a new tax. Their welcome for it all includes a range of measures that they require, including reductions in fuel taxes and vehicle taxes. That is precisely the question I put to the Minister: do you intend to reduce diesel taxes now, as the haulage companies are talking about? To stand here and say that the haulage companies welcome something is not really consistent with the truth. Then you have a lot of different aspects of what you want to have done. On the second issue, Madam President, we actually proposed a gps-puck to deal with foreign transport when they enter the country and to put a transponder in the truck and be able to collect congestion charges, Eurovignette charges and possible fines. You have said no to this idea. You do not want this control. You don't even want a competition investigation to look at the situation. All you're working on is a new treasure that you're going to get in. It is clear from the Minister's reply that this should provide revenue to the State – these are the ones that are supposed to be used for something else. This means that it is our haulage companies around the country that will have to pay more money to the state. It does not care to carry out the checks on the roads and at the border stations that we could actually use to limit illegal traffic. It ignores this and focuses only on how to get at the taxes. I still haven't got an honest answer as to how you've been thinking. How much money do you intend to raise? Are you planning on reducing diesel taxes? And when will you conduct the competition investigation that we proposed?
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-52	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden draws conclusions that cannot be drawn from what I have said. Of course, the revenue from road wear tax can be used to compensate Swedish haulage companies. But since 18 per cent of road work takes place with foreign hauliers, it is perfectly possible to also get revenue that can be used to strengthen the Swedish road network, which is something that Swedish haulage companies think would be good. The most striking thing is that Sten Bergheden does not answer the question of whether taxation is looting. It is a rather startling statement from a Member of Parliament in the Parliament's pulpit. I usually say that tax is the price we pay for being a civilized society. Here the Moderates seem to have a different view.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-54	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me what analysis I am making of the consequences of the Government's decision and whether I and the Government intend to reconsider previous decisions and improve the terms of the ROT deductions. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits, along with unemployment that has been sustained at a high level. The ROT deduction was introduced in 2009, and the costs of the deduction amounted to SEK 9.6 billion that year. After this, costs increased sharply, and in 2015 the ROT deduction amounted to more than SEK 20 billion. The government limited the ROT deduction in order to finance more urgent investments for jobs and more housing that are considered to contribute to a lasting reduction in unemployment. Data from SCB show that the labour cost base for the 2016 tax reduction is broadly the same high level as in 2014. This indicates that the limitation of the ROT deduction contributes to increased tax revenues without significantly affecting the value of the work carried out under the ROT deduction. Combating tax evasion by introducing various tax subsidies becomes expensive. The government prioritises ways of combating undeclared work and contributing to greater legitimacy in the tax system than through subsidies. One such measure has been to impose requirements on civil servants in the construction industry. As part of the government's twelve point programme against tax evasion, we have also recently made proposals to extend human resources to more sectors, including automotive services, food and tobacco wholesale activities, and body and beauty care. The Government has also set up an investigation to review the F-tax system. The purpose of the review is, inter alia, to combat tax evasion and evasion and to analyse whether and in what way the design of the F tax system affects the conditions for setting up, operating and developing businesses.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-60	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply, which I found interesting for various reasons. Combating tax evasion and tax evasion is not something that the current government can claim they are alone in. On the contrary: the Alliance was very active and took many initiatives in this area during its reign, including the introduction of human resources in various sectors. These initiatives also include the ROT and RUT deductions, which contributed to reduced undeclared work in addition to, for example, creating jobs and giving ordinary citizens the opportunity to free up self-time by enabling people to buy services in a way that is almost impossible when you have normal income in a high tax country like Sweden. Sure, there was a lot of money set aside for the ROT deductions in particular. It still is, by the way. However, when the Minister of Finance claims that the reason for limiting the ROT deductions from 50% to 30% was to finance more urgent investments for jobs and more housing, surely she must admit that these efforts in turn have failed and that it was therefore a directly wrong priority? According to SVT's review, housing subsidies introduced by the government are slow. The Government has allocated SEK 11.3 billion over four years in investment aid to the developers. It's huge money. But they're not used. After two years, only 2.6 billion have been used, and according to the construction industry, many of the apartments built with this investment aid would have been built anyway. While we are in the area of housing construction, it is an area where the government really fails. The production of new dwellings falls and next year will be at the lowest level of over four years – and this in times of extreme housing shortage. According to Sweden's Byggindustrier, it is built well below the level set by Boverket to remedy the housing shortage, i.e. 80,000 homes per year over the next four years. In a declining construction cycle, private customers could have contributed to the purchase of ROT services. The entrepreneurs' report shows that 6,700 full-time jobs have disappeared in Sweden. In Skåne, which interests me especially, there are over 800 fewer full-time jobs in the construction industry in 2017 compared to 2015, i.e. before the deterioration of the conditions for the ROT deduction was introduced. The report also shows that the number of companies in the industry is decreasing, that bankruptcies are increasing and that the number of buyers of ROT services is decreasing – this despite the fact that, contrary to the previous term of office, we are in an extreme boom. However, as I wrote in my interpellation, the construction materials industry is doing well. This means that the Swedes are now doing the jobs themselves, or they are being carried out blackly because of the deteriorating ROT deductions.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-70	Madam President, I would like Let's do it again, Anette Åkesson. The data from SCB show that the labour cost base was around the same level in 2016 as in 2014. It is the labour cost base that shows how many hours of work are used in the ROT deduction, and it is basically at the same level. It is quite correct that there are fewer practitioners and fewer people, and this suggests that those who make ROT deductions do more jobs than before and use fewer companies. However, no fewer ROT hours are carried out. This means that we have been able to make this change without reducing the number of hours carried out in the ROT industry. We have thus been able to increase tax revenues without affecting the functioning of the economy. This is the type of tax increase you want to make if you need increased tax revenue. The need for it was great after the Moderates left behind the biggest budget deficit since the budgetary adjustment. After all, the Moderates have three times out of three possible deficits. We are investing in building new homes instead of you, me and others who already own their homes and have a high income getting a tax discount where other taxpayers will have to pay for us to be able to renovate our kitchens and bathrooms. We want to spend the money on giving young people the opportunity to put the key in the door of their first apartment. Therefore, we take the money from the ROT deduction, from you and me, and invest in our young people, the future of Sweden. This year 10 000 homes will be built that will benefit from investment support. It is both student housing and rental apartments that people with regular income can rent. The investment aid places a clear downward pressure on construction costs as there are clear requirements for these homes to have reasonable rents. What Sweden needs are new rental apartments so that our young people can move away from home when they enter the university or move where the jobs are. This is what Sweden needs, not further kitchen renovations for you and me.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-76	Madam President, I would like We probably need to both build more homes and renovate existing ones. All jobs are needed. There is no doubt that housing is needed. However, not as many as are built, and housing construction has decreased during the present government's time. That would have to increase. It is in companies that jobs are created, and our task in politics is to create the best possible conditions for companies. The present government has also failed to do so. As regards the business environment, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the overall assessment of the business climate in Sweden in 2017 fell to 3.2 on a six-point scale. This is the lowest entry since the question began to be asked in the form of a survey in 2008. The Small Business Survey mentions political unpredictability as the fourth biggest obstacle to business expansion. According to figures from the New Entrepreneur Centre, the start-up in Sweden, after several years of upsurge, has turned downwards, despite the fact that we are in the middle of a boom. We notice clearly that, among other things, the proposal to limit profits in the welfare sector strikes very hard against the interest and the desire to dare to start new. The revised rules for RUT and ROT also contribute negatively, says Harry Goldman of the New Entrepreneur Centre. The Swedish Enterprise and Industry report Entrepreneurship 2018 shows that business start-ups are decreasing: However, we see clear links to the changes that have taken place in RUT and ROT services with reduced deductions. In these sectors, start-ups have fallen significantly. ..................................................... Unfortunately, we got in the opposition and the professionals in construction right. Bankruptcies have increased and, with great probability, also undeclared work. That the Minister of Finance was aware of the risks of increased undeclared work when the government implemented the worse ROT conditions, I know after our interpellation debate two years ago. In less than five months, it'll be a choice. In the run-up to the last elections, Stefan Löfven promised that the Social Democrats would retain the ROT deductions and not change them. But already in connection with the 2015 spring budget, Per Bolund and Magdalena Andersson announced that the ROT deduction would be reduced from 50 to 30 percent. This has led to a halving of the use of the ROT deduction despite the boom between 2015 and 2017. We will see if the voters remember this betrayal in September. The Alliance succeeded in the work line because the reforms were linked. Reforms in both labour supply and labour demand were pursued. Job tax deductions, RUT and ROT deductions and lower employer costs for young and older people were some parts of the package. It became cheaper to hire, and it paid more to work. Now we see the opposite. The deterioration of the ROT deductions by reference to investment aid to the large construction companies, which they do not want, has resulted in fewer companies and fewer started building apartments. The government's taking a shot here and there, too. The latest is that we subsidise electric boat engines with our tax money. Now the Social Democrats must defend the fact that they broke their declared electoral promise. How credible does the Minister of Finance believe that the Social Democrats will be in the run-up to the forthcoming elections?
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-89	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson tries to paint a picture of a crisis in the Swedish construction industry, but the only crisis I hear about when I meet people in the construction industry is the lack of skilled labour and the right skills. This is because the construction reaches record levels. There were a record number of projects started last year. The assessment is that we need to continue to build a lot. In that situation, to remove the support for building new homes and instead spend tax money on me and Anette Åkesson renovating our bathrooms and kitchens is a completely wrong policy. It would make it more difficult for young people to leave home when they have a job or come to college or university. Why should we spend tax money on me and Anette Åkesson instead of our young people? In general, what is the policy against young people that the Moderates have? They do not just want to make it difficult to build cheap rental apartments that allow young people to leave home. They also want to introduce market rents, which risk increasing rents by 30-40%. This would make it much more expensive for all those living in rental law and make it impossible for young people to leave home, especially in combination with the Moderates wanting to legislate in the Riksdag on lower salaries for Swedish young people. What is the future for Sweden's young people that the Moderates paint with higher rents and lower wages?
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-93	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance is right; there were a record number of housing projects that began last year. It was thanks to the Alliance, for you should know that there are long lead times in the process of starting housing construction. There is still a great need to build housing, but now the pace is falling. Less housing is started than is needed, and it is much fewer than last year. Unfortunately, therefore, the present government has failed there. As mentioned above, both rental and residential apartments need to be built. Today it is profitable to build residential apartments, but with current rental regulation it is not profitable to build rental apartments. That's part of the problem. There are many things that go well in Sweden, but there are of course many major social problems that we have to deal with. It is equally obvious that it is not the present government's credit that the economy is going well, but it is the boom, the low interest rate and the impact of the implemented alliance reforms that contribute to it. It is therefore rather the case that much is going well in Sweden despite the government. We have a weak government that breaks its electoral promises, for example on the ROT deductions, and the reforms that have been implemented have not produced the results that were intended – for example, on housing construction. The government referred the deterioration of the ROT deductions to the intention to finance investments for more housing, but housing construction is decreasing, as I said. Of the huge investment aid allocated to the developers, only a small part is used. It is a complete failure, which not only hits employees and customers but also – and above all – against those who need housing. The government also spends time producing bad legislative proposals which it is known will not be implemented. The state is not fulfilling its commitment. At all, it is a huge waste of resources, not just on the part of the Ministry of Finance, that this government will go down in history. Some industries have to spend time pairing different moves. The alternative is to decommission and this has been the case for many ROT companies. It's distressing. White jobs are turning black again. It does not benefit customers, workers or society. I thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-99	Madam President, I would like We can therefore conclude that the change made by the government is as much ROT work as before. For me, it suggests that this tax rescheduling has been a good thing, because the change also means that 10 000 new rentals are now being built. It is rental apartments that allow young people to move to their place of study when they are given a place at university and which enable young people to leave home. Anette Åkesson calls it a gigantic waste. It's not my picture of what new rentals mean. On the contrary, we see that with the government's policy we have a strong development in the economy and in the Swedish labour market. Anette Åkesson believes that everything that after three and a half years with this government is going well in Sweden is nevertheless the benefit of the alliance government. Of course it will be a little difficult to argue for it in the election movement. When we took over, youth unemployment in Sweden was so high that we received crisis support in the EU, and now youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. We have an employment rate that is astounding. It is the highest in the EU and indeed the highest that has ever been measured in any EU country. A quarter million more people go to work. We have more than 100 000 more employees in welfare thanks to the government's efforts, and 28 000 of them are in school. This is a policy that we, as the government, want to develop, and of course the voters will have a say in this autumn's elections. Are we going to continue along this path, or are we going to trade it for the policies that led to higher unemployment, higher long-term unemployment and a crisis in youth unemployment? In between, there's the election.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-103	Madam President, I would like Momodou Jallow has first asked me whether I intend to work to ensure that the EU applies its own criteria on tax havens so that countries such as Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Belgium and Cyprus also come on the list. In addition, Momodou Jallow has asked me whether the government's attitude towards the City of London, the Channel Islands and so on will change with b rexit and that this part of Europe will no longer belong to the Union. The background to these issues is that in May 2016, the Council adopted conclusions on an external strategy and action against abuse of tax treaties. The conclusions gave the Code of Conduct Group a mandate to work on the issue of establishing an EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions in third countries. In November 2016, the Council established criteria for examining third country jurisdictions. At a meeting on 5 December 2017, the Council decided to establish an EU list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. The purpose of the list is to promote good governance in tax matters and to combat tax evasion and avoidance. A review and dialogue took place with a large number of third country jurisdictions in 2017, in accordance with the established criteria. Jurisdictions with identified problems have not been listed where they have made meaningful commitments at a high political level to address these problems. Initially, 17 jurisdictions were listed, but the Council conclusions of 5 December 2017 indicate that the list may be updated, inter alia, if new commitments are made at a high political level to address identified problems. Since December 2017, the list has been updated twice and now contains nine jurisdictions. All jurisdictions that have undertaken commitments are subject to the supervision of the Code of Conduct Group to ensure that they comply with their commitments. The first question is whether I intend to work towards the application of the listing criteria to EU Member States as well. The answer to this question is that Member States already live up to two of the three listing criteria. Member States must comply with the rules laid down in the Council Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, the Council Directive establishing rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market and the Council Directive on tax dispute resolution mechanisms in the European Union. The European Commission monitors the correct implementation and application of the rules of the Directives by the Member States. Work on the third criterion, which concerns fair taxation, takes place in the Code of Conduct Group on Business Taxation. All Member States have undertaken not to engage in harmful tax competition by complying with the criteria and principles set out in the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation. On the second question, on what happens after b rexit, the answer is that a non-EU country constitutes a third country jurisdiction and is therefore covered by the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. In particular, it should be noted that jurisdictions associated with and dependent territories of Member States are already covered by the work on the EU list. Jersey and Guernsey have therefore been examined in accordance with the criteria established by the Council in November 2016. They have not been placed on the list as they have made meaningful commitments at a high political level to address identified problems. These commitments are subject to the supervision of the Code of Conduct Group. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of strengthening international pressure on non-cooperative jurisdictions. The government therefore supports the work on the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-108	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. I have the feeling that the Minister of Finance is squeezed between what she thinks and what she should say in order not to frustrate cooperation with Ecofin and so on. It's her answer when you listen to it. The answer actually only describes what has been formally agreed, but it does not contain much assessment of whether this is in itself sufficient or whether it is properly implemented and equivalent to all jurisdictions. That is really what my first question is about. Madam President, I would like As mentioned by the Minister for Finance, the Council of the European Union decided to establish an EU list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. The reason is very simple: it has been considered that tax evasion is problematic and wanted to develop measures to counteract this, which is very good. Three conditions have been reached. It is a question of tax transparency, of fair taxation and of jurisdictions taking steps to counteract tax base erosion and profit shifting. This is very important. The so-called blacklist has included countries such as American Samoa, Guam, Namibia, Palau, Trinidad and Tobago, South Korea, Barbados, Bahrain and so on. You understand – not a single country from Europe. This list and the review have received quite a lot of criticism from several quarters, including from Oxfam and Diakonia here in Sweden, because it does not contain any of the EU countries accused of facilitating aggressive tax planning, such as Luxembourg, Malta, Ireland and the Netherlands. It is even being criticised by the European Commission. Commissioner Moscovici stated at a press conference on 7 March 2018 that tax laws in Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands have the potential to undermine justice in the EU internal market and increase the burden on taxpayers. My first question in the interpellation to the Minister for Finance was whether she intends to work to ensure that the EU applies its own criteria on tax havens so that countries such as Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Belgium and so on also come on the list. She answers: No, they have met the requirements. How could they have met the requirements? We have seen through the latest leaks how these countries facilitate tax evasion. Large companies – capitalists like Ikea and so on – can use tax laws and tax systems to hide money from the Swedish state. How can we continue to close our eyes when we know that these countries should be on this list? Therefore, I would really like to hear from the Minister: if they have made progress and are cooperative, what exactly have they done that means that they cannot be on this list?
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-115	Madam President, I would like There are three conditions. In order not to be included in the list, tax transparency is to be observed, and, secondly, measures are to be taken to counter tax base erosion and profit shifting and, thirdly, not to engage in harmful tax competition. The first two criteria meet all EU countries. It is about taking some of the measures that we have agreed in the OECD. This is something that all EU countries have implemented. The third criterion is therefore not to engage in harmful tax competition. There we have not worked on this list with regard to EU countries, because in the EU we have our own process through the Code of Conduct Group. This group works against harmful tax competition. This means that we have two different ways of working depending on whether it concerns EU or non-EU countries. With non-EU countries we have this list; the kind of code of conduct group we have for EU countries we do not have with third country jurisdictions. That's where we work on the list. The EU countries concerned meet two of the requirements. As regards the third requirement, which concerns harmful tax competition, we are working in the Code of Conduct Group. So we have two different approaches for EU countries and non-EU countries. Our assessment is that it is extremely important that we work intensively in the Code of Conduct Group to discuss how we tax within EU countries, so that we do not engage in harmful tax competition within the EU and between EU countries. That is something that is not acceptable. I fully share the honourable Member's view on this issue.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-118	Madam President, I would like I hear what the Minister of Finance says, and what she says worries me. We agree that tax evasion is a global problem. It is important, then, that global action is in place. But why do we have a series of measures for EU countries that are different from those for other countries? Why do we have that? When we have conditions relating to this problem, there must be a level playing field that applies equally to everyone, whether one belongs to the EU or not. However, the criticism we have seen so far is precisely that the European Union does not want to discredit its Member States by having them on this list. It will not be credible, and it will not be effective. Therefore, the criticism that the list has been watered down is essential in the debate. You have a list and have conditions, but the terms then do not apply equally to everyone, you have special conditions for a small club. We all have the right to our opinions, but no one has the right to their own facts. There are facts showing that these countries have a lack of tax policies and tax laws that encourage tax evasion. If we are serious about combating tax evasion, we must ensure that the conditions apply to all countries. They should apply to all jurisdictions without exception, I think. The Commissioner who mentioned these countries is present. He is aware of the consequence of not applying these conditions equally to all. That is why he specifically mentions these countries in the EU and says that Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands have the potential to undermine justice within the EU's internal market and increase the burden on taxpayers. This is a person who works with this daily, and a few weeks ago he said this. If the government is serious about combating tax evasion, I think it is very important to listen and look at the facts. One should not turn a blind eye to reality, because it will in no way help in our work and our ambitions to combat tax planning. Advanced tax planning means that successful global companies reduce their tax participation at the expense of other companies and also citizens, who are allowed to contribute to a disproportionate share of the common welfare. We want to avoid this. The Left Party believes that it is very important not to do what is happening now: we take some countries within the EU and give them special privileges, even though we know that they are cheating and that there is legislation that almost makes the work that we are trying to do here in Sweden impossible. Therefore, I would like to reiterate the question: does the Minister of Finance intend to work to ensure that the EU countries I and the Commissioner have mentioned end up on this list? Today, all the facts show that those countries do not follow the criteria that we have.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-124	Madam President, I would like To engage in harmful tax competition between countries, as the honourable Member says, is something that undermines the legitimacy of the tax system. It reduces the possibility of funding schools, health care, care for the elderly, roads, police and everything else that we fund together. It is therefore very welcome that the international efforts to combat harmful tax competition but also tax evasion and tax evasion have intensified in recent years. The Government and Sweden have been very driving this work with support from the Swedish Parliament. What distinguishes EU countries from third countries is that we in the EU have the Code of Conduct Group, which is designed to work against harmful tax competition. It is a work that has been quite successful. I would have liked to have had a corresponding task force against harmful tax competition with third countries, but that is not possible, because they are not members of the European Union. Then you do in a different way, namely that you have this as one of the criteria for being on the blacklist. However, I believe that the work of the Code of Conduct Group is more effective than putting countries on a list. That is why I think that the work we can do in the Code of Conduct Group is better. I think it is unproblematic that we have two different methods when we work against EU countries and against third country jurisdictions, because I believe that the way we work in the EU is more effective than putting a country on a black list. Nor is it the case that the Commissioner, who has pointed out problems with certain countries, is proposing to have a different working method from the one we have today. He does not propose that we work with a list of EU countries, but refers to the work of the Code of Conduct Group.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-127	Madam President, I would like The second question I put to the Minister for Finance concerns, among other things, the consequences of Brexit. What does Sweden intend to do about certain parts of countries and certain cities, such as London, having their own legislation? The City of London is a rather unique phenomenon with medieval design. It consists of a small square area in the middle of London's financial centre. In its council, citizens as well as companies, such as the largest banks and audit firms, have the right to vote. Companies also have several votes depending on how many employees they have. What are we going to do about this? Britain will not be there when it leaves with Brexit. What are we going to do? It also affects Sweden. It's tax evasion at the highest level. It is not acceptable for us to cooperate with countries that have such systems that undermine tax systems around the world. That is why I want to know exactly what the Minister for Finance thinks of it. Finally, I would like to emphasise the following. If we say that we should work to combat tax evasion, tax evasion and evasion, we must ensure that we do not compromise on these issues at all. We must ensure that we work with it on a daily basis whether it is an EU country or a non-EU country and what jurisdiction it is. We will apply laws and criteria equally to everyone.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-131	Madam President, I would like When the UK leaves the EU, the UK is a third country. If it engages in harmful tax competition, it can, of course, be included in the list if it does not, as is the case with other countries, make meaningful commitments at a high political level. The honourable Member says that if we are serious, we should not compromise. But if we are serious, we must also make sure that the process is taken forward. What is extremely important is that we now follow up on the commitments made by a large number of countries. What has been good about the work on the list is that it was first a large number of countries that would be on the list. Then many of those countries have now made commitments at a high political level. They will change their legislation so that it is in line with the criteria. What we are going to do now and in the coming years is to follow up on the realisation of those commitments. When that happens, the world will look different. Then we will see less of the mussel, more of the transparency and less of harmful tax competition. There is something that indicates that the work on the list will be very successful. But it's based on us following it up. So far, it seems that countries do not want to be on the list and are prepared to make changes to avoid having to come up with it. It is an important subject that has been raised. I want to thank you very much for the interpellation. It is a subject that is close to my heart because we know that the basis for us to have our welfare society and the basis for the Swedish model is that we get tax revenue.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-137	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me whether it is reasonable to be able to buy tax exemption in ways mentioned in the question and whether I intend to take any measures to prevent this type of tax planning. The question is raised in the light of the fact that network owners do not charge any energy tax on the transfer of electricity to energy-taxable electricity producers. Consequently, no energy tax is included in the VAT base for the transmission of electricity. The excise duty rules mean that no tax is levied when taxable persons supply excise goods to each other. Instead, excise duty is normally levied on a taxable person's sales to a final customer or on the taxable person's own consumption of the excise goods. In the case of energy tax on electricity, network holders and producers are taxable. Thus, a network holder transferring electricity to a producer shall not charge any energy tax, but the producer shall itself account for its own consumption. However, the network holder shall normally charge VAT when the electricity is transferred to the producer. The VAT base is the price for the transmission of electricity. Where the network holder is not required to declare energy tax, no energy tax is included in the VAT base. In addition to the VAT charged on the transmission by the network owner, VAT will also be charged by the electricity trading company. All this is a consequence of the structure of the rules on excise duties and VAT. It is fundamentally positive that companies are considering various environmentally friendly energy sources. On the other hand, if a transaction is made solely in order to avoid tax, the legitimacy and confidence of the tax system may be undermined.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-141	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its response to the interpellation, although I may not consider the question in my interpellation to be fully answered. I will briefly address the background to the interpellation and try to do so with a little fewer technical terms, which is certainly difficult to avoid in these contexts. Since the turn of the year, everyone is now paying their energy tax on the bill from their electricity grid company. On that invoice, VAT is also levied on both the energy tax and the cost of electricity transmission. If, on the other hand, you are an electricity producer, the electricity grid company will not charge the tax on the invoice, but you will have to pay it yourself to the Swedish Tax Agency. This also means that no VAT will have to be paid on the energy tax if you are a producer of electricity. For most companies, this does not matter, as they also have input VAT in their activities. However, for companies which have no right to deduct VAT, this is of great importance. In these companies, VAT on the energy tax is a cost to the companies in full. To be classified as an electricity producer, you have to buy into electricity generation units in order to cross a minimum limit of installed power, which for example for wind power is that you have to own one sixteenth of a normal-sized wind turbine. One thing that should be borne in mind here is that in most cases power production itself represents a microscopic share of the business of those companies. Such a manoeuvre will not only relieve them of the VAT on the energy tax on the electricity they have produced themselves, but on all the electricity they buy into the company. There is no further limitation at all. The Government's reply notes that all of this is a consequence of the structure and structure of the excise and VAT rules. But there is no closer assessment if there is any reasonableness in it and whether it should remain that way. It is clear that there is no specific intention for VAT to be withheld in specific situations, which is very much a loophole that has arisen for certain operators. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Government once again whether the government considers it reasonable that this kind of loophole exists, which leaves room for a partial purchase of tax exemption. If the Government does not consider it reasonable, I would like to ask whether the Government intends to take any measures to prevent this type of tax planning from being possible.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-151	Madam President, I would like One thing is important, and that is that this was not an opportunity that arose on 1 January 2018, but this was an opportunity that, with previous legislation, was greater than today. Now there is at least one known case with a company that has adapted to the new legislation in order to regain the tax situation that it had before 1 January 2018. So it is not that you pay less tax than you did last year, but you do not pay more tax than you did last year. To make changes solely in order to avoid paying taxes is, as I said in the interpellation response, of course problematic and risks undermining the trust and legitimacy of the tax system. Making changes to further limit the possibility of tax planning in this way would mean making substantial changes either to the VAT system or to the excise system. It would also make it considerably more complicated for all companies paying excise duty, because in that case different rules would be needed for the excise duties covered by the EU excise duty directive and those not regulated via the EU. It is the same with regard to VAT. What would be possible is to introduce VAT on all rentals of dwellings. The VAT directive does not allow for a reduced rate of renting of dwellings, but would in that case be a 25% VAT rate on all rents. None of the three options at hand is clearly quickly arranged or perhaps even desirable. That is why we in the Government intend to follow these developments closely to see if there are many actors who are making use of this possibility, and if so, we will have to consider what action is appropriate.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-155	Madam President, I would like It is true, as the Government says: D et here has been an opportunity that has existed for those who have been electricity trading companies until the end of the year. But now it's changing, and businesses are adapting. This phenomenon occurs all the time with a surgical precision to reach the limit and thus be classified as an electricity producer and be able to achieve tax exemption. It could certainly seem, if you are somewhat naive, to coincide with precise ambitions for environmental work, for example. To give an idea of what the financial incentives may look like, I have a current example from my home county, Kalmar County, where a municipal housing company has invested in part of a wind turbine to cross the border. The investment made by this company would result in a profit of modest SEK 30 000 in the investment calculation that was drawn up, but at the same time it would reduce the tax by SEK 850 000 when you did not have to pay VAT as a result of the investment. Thus, the pro portions were that for each crown one expected that in getting profit from the investment one received 28 SEK in reduced tax. Although it is a very limited part, it would be difficult for the Government to raise money for the state treasury if loopholes of the same measure were allowed in other parts of our tax system. What makes the present case more remarkable is that it was in a social democraticly governed municipality that it was found and that the municipal councillor in the municipality in question also sits on the party board of the Social Democrats. In view of the image that the Social Democrats are trying to create around their view of tax planning and towards companies that are trying to minimise their tax burden, it is not very sympathetic that they themselves engage in tax planning. When the opposition in the municipality problematized that it would be difficult to build investment decisions on a gap in tax legislation that is not known for how long it remains, the answer was in the local press on the part of the Social Democrats: the whole investment has been repaid in two years. You don't have time to change the law in two years. Of course, how one has acted in a municipality is not something for which the government can be held accountable. However, such action by elected political representatives, regardless of the level at which they are elected, seriously jeopardises the legitimacy of the tax system and adversely affects the morale of both companies and the people. That is precisely why it is urgent not to open up to such possibilities or to allow them to continue. I hear a bit of legitimate notes from the Government about this, and it sounds like you have the right entrance. However, one question remains whether the Government is willing to give notice of a review or follow-up as to what it looks like after this change and after the move of the energy tax that was carried out at the end of the year.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-161	Madam President, I would like We will, of course, follow developments in this area. I share the view that it is not good to carry out transactions solely in order to avoid paying taxes. This applies to private individuals, to companies and, of course, to politicians. At the same time, the change that has been made does not open it up to new ways of avoiding paying taxes. Instead, it actually reduces the possibility of paying tax, but the possibility of restoring the tax situation that existed before 1 January 2018 exists. I also assume that Mattias Bäckström Johansson believes that it might be a bit problematic to make changes that make it very much more complicated for all companies but also to implement a change that means that you add a VAT of 25 percent to the rental of housing. If there was a simple measure to overcome this problem, the government would immediately take it. The problem is that it would involve a massive shift in either VAT or excise duties or a 25% VAT charge on the rent of dwellings. All three measures are quite extensive interventions and would either make it more expensive to live in a rental apartment or make it much more complicated for Swedish companies. Of course, the best solution would be for municipal housing companies – it could also be educational companies, healthcare companies and the financial sector – to think about before carrying out these kinds of transactions.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-164	Madam President, I would like As I have previously mentioned, it is urgent that this kind of loopholes should not be allowed to be exploited, as it erodes the conditions for maintaining high tax standards. It has previously been possible to be an electricity trading company, and it has also been possible in cases where, for example, municipalities, real estate companies and county councils have invested in wind power and there was no limit at all for any installed power. Here, it is possible to classify who is the producer of electricity and also to manage it. It is fundamentally unreasonable for the Swedish Democrats to be able to buy tax exemption, which is one part of the problem of confidence in the tax system. The second part is more energy policy. The energy tax or the value added tax on the energy tax shall in no way govern the electricity market or affect investment decisions in power generation. The extensive subsidy policy already pursued in this area, together with this type of market distortion, jeopardises the conditions for a sustainable electricity market and risks causing a major electricity market crisis. I take note of some positive inputs and would like to conclude by thanking the Government for the debate and expressing a small hope that it will look at this and look at the opportunities available. I believe that it could be resolved by classifying it rather than by taking more extensive measures in the tax system as a whole.
i-6dc958f4fd1e57ae-167	Madam President, I would like The government believes it is urgent that we encourage companies, and also individuals, in various ways to use alternative energy sources. We also see that this leads to a lot of new energy sources being built in Sweden. There's a solar revolution going on every day. We also see increased use of other forms of environmentally friendly energy and electricity. It is important for us to cope with the climate change and reduce the warming that threatens the life of our planet. At the same time, we see that it has consequences in other parts of the tax system. However, we also see that the way in which we charge VAT and excise duties in this particular case allows for transactions that avoid paying VAT on an excise duty. It is unfortunate that it is used that way. And it shows what problems exist when you find an opportunity. But there is a risk that many other market players will have more trouble if we remedy it. Of course, the best thing would be for everyone to stay away from making transactions solely to avoid paying taxes. This would increase the legitimacy of the tax system.
