i-d681f63a74a2146f-0	On Wednesday 12 December, I submitted the proposal for Stefan Löfven, the Social Democrats, to be appointed Prime Minister. Stefan Löfven has stated that he intends to form a government made up of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The proposal has now been tabled twice and will be examined at today's sitting.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-1	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in an uncertain environment facing a possible recession and an obvious climate threat. We have continued problems with criminality and shootings. Welfare has enormous investment needs. At the same time, unemployment has fallen sharply. Employment is at the forefront in Europe. The Swedish economy is strong. We have great opportunities to tackle the challenges ahead of us, but then Sweden needs a powerful government. Sweden needs to come together, rather than split up. It has now been three months since the elections. It was an election that had the highest turnout in 33 years. The voters have said their thing, and they have a right to expect us in this House to be able to deal with the outcome. If we are to continue to build a safer Sweden with more police and better healthcare and if we are to have an equal school with good results and be able to invest in roads, broadband and services throughout the country, we need a government with the ability to negotiate and compromise. But there are also things that we should not compromise on. The Swedish Democrats are a nationalist and populist party. They are basically a threat to our liberal democracy. A majority of the parliamentary parties have therefore clearly declared: we do not cooperate, we do not negotiate and we do not support a government that makes itself dependent on the Swedish Democrats. Stefan Löfven is the leader of the clearly largest party and, with the support of the largest government foundation, the natural government founder. But we have always been clear that block politics must now be broken. If there is to be a government in place, we need more cooperation and less polarisation. Over the past few weeks, constructive negotiations have taken place where all parties have both given and taken. We regret that, so far, we have not reached an agreement across the block border. However, our door is still open. If a new S-MP government is tolerated by the Riksdag today, it will remain focused on cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals in particular. We know that leading a minority government must compromise. In order to continue to equip Sweden for the future and to deal with future challenges, it is our conviction that Stefan Löfven is the one with the best conditions to lead a stable and capable government. The Socialist parliamentary group will therefore today vote in favour of Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-7	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates' parliamentary group will today vote against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. That is in line with what we have promised our voters in the autumn elections, and it is supported by the outcome of the elections. There are better and more natural alternatives as government leaders. Almost three months ago, we voted out the formation of the government that is today before the Parliament. It was a confirmation of the electorate's decision on 9 September. Nothing has changed either in substance or in parliamentary terms since then. It is still natural that Stefan Lövven's idea of a government formation is now being tested. It is just as natural for us to vote 'no'. The Moderates have presented possible ways forward in the process of government formation. We will continue to do so. Our basic view is that there are opportunities to form a government based on the Alliance's common reform agenda and in the common policies shaped by alliance cooperation. We have put forward various proposals as to what such a government might look like and under what conditions it would take office. Sweden faces major and difficult societal problems: gang crime, care queues, school failure, segregation and exclusion, and the EU's lowest growth per person. Sweden needs a government, but Sweden also needs the right government. There is a need for a government with a policy that can both tackle social problems and exploit Sweden's every opportunity. A new government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party will have neither the ability nor the will to do so. We Moderates have shown in action that we take responsibility for Sweden. We did this last Wednesday by voting for a state budget which will enable us to begin to address the major reform needs that exist. We will continue to do so. The Moderates will therefore today vote against the President's proposal to appoint Stefan Löfven Prime Minister.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-12	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a government. We need a government that through liberal reforms strengthens Swedish competitiveness, steers towards a continued green transition with reduced emissions and a better environment, improves integration and creates security throughout the country with a strong rule of law as well as a strengthened defence and closer care. We need a government capable of implementing liberal structural reforms for more jobs, better integration, more housing and more and growing businesses. We need a government that does not blur gender equality and humanity, but a government that defends fundamental values. It has now been more than three months without Sweden having a new government. The Center Party has worked purposefully during these three months for a solution to the government issue where the Alliance can hold together, where neither the Swedish Democrats nor the Left Party can influence a new government's political orientation and where cooperation can take place across the block line. Right after the elections, we brought with us the other alliance parties an invitation to the Social Democrats to cooperate with an alliance government. Talks were held, but the Social Democrats said no. When I was appointed a prober, I tried several different government options where the Alliance could hold together in cross-block solutions. Even these government options were then blocked by other parties saying no. After months of fruitless attempts at a new government, the Center Party broke the deadlock a few weeks ago. As no other party moved out of its firm position, we chose to consider releasing Stefan Löfven if the Social Democrats could accept a clear liberal reform policy that we have put into practice in a demand list. Seriously and carefully, we went through our demands together with the Social Democrats for a number of days. Unfortunately, we were met with unclear and inadequate answers when they responded to our demand list. Nevertheless, we chose to give the Social Democrats one last chance to take our extended hand for cross-block cooperation by entering into sharp negotiations. Opening negotiations with the Social Democrats on budgetary cooperation is a major step for the Center Party. The breakthrough that the Center Party and the Liberals stood for by opening negotiations on substance policy with the Social Democrats to see if we could in this way give Sweden a solution to the government issue means the only major position changes that have taken place in the autumn. For five days, I and the Center Party worked day and night so that such cooperation could take place. We have been in countless talks with the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party. Unfortunately, the results did not stand for cooperation. Negotiations are about giving and taking, about being able to compromise in order to move forward, but unfortunately the Social Democrats did not have the power to meet us but said no to our proposals for reforms. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats did not have the power to cut the bond to the former cooperation with the Left Party in order to move in a more liberal and centre-oriented direction. It is truly sad that we were unable to reach a consensus on the radical liberal reforms that Sweden needs. I had hoped that there would be a greater understanding of this by the Social Democrats. The demands made by the Center Party for reform are about a more open and flexible labour market and housing market for more jobs, better integration and more housing. They are about tax reforms and better conditions for rural areas and the environment. Progress has been made on a number of issues, but there are still too many differences to allow the Center Party to contribute to Stefan Löfven being released as Prime Minister. We have therefore decided to vote against Stefan Löfven in today's Prime Minister's vote. I and the Center Party really wanted these talks to lead to something concrete. I regret that the Social Democrats have not taken the opportunity for cooperation that we have offered. Now the Center Party has tried all the possibilities for several months. We have been constructive, willing to compromise and prepared to take a new position when other parties have been locked down. Now other parties must also take responsibility for Sweden to have a new government.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-25	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a stable and capable government, not least in the face of an impending recession. The result of the elections is a risk that the outlying parties of Sweden Democrats and the Left Party will gain great political power if they are given a position of wave in the Riksdag. If this is to be avoided, the midfield parties must cooperate with each other. The fact that we Liberals have been prepared to take this step towards cross-block cooperation is not because we would be particularly fond of the policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party for the last four years. We have been strongly critical of many elements of the policy of the Red Green Government. Cross-Border cooperation would require the two government parties so far to move properly towards the centre, from their perspective making a right-wing turn and being prepared to accept liberal reforms in a wide range of areas. I requested a mandate from our parliamentary group and our party board to negotiate both an agreement on a budget for 2019 and a political agreement for a solution to the government issue. I was given such a mandate. Last week we conducted sharp negotiations in a middle constellation of four parties. All these four parties are needed to achieve a sufficient number of mandates in this House. The aim was to be able to form a new collaboration that takes responsibility for Sweden and thus exclude the outer edge parties from political power in the position of wave champions. In a strong polarised political climate in Sweden, a consensus in the middle could also have seemed cohesive in our country. However, as everyone knows, this centre group has not managed to reach full agreement on the political programme. Unfortunately, the differences in views on different issues were too wide between different parties. As everyone has been able to read in the media about the discussions at the closed internal meetings of the Liberals, many in our party have felt that the outcome of the negotiations was good from the point of view of the Liberals, while others were critical. We are a very transparent party. Had the results been approved by the four parties, the Liberals with several parties today would have been prepared to press the yellow button and ensure that Sweden has a new government. Unfortunately, today's vote does not provide the conditions for a functioning central government. We are voting against the President's proposal, not because we are against a middle solution – on the contrary, it would have been welcome – but because at the moment such a solution cannot be achieved.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-32	Mr President, I would like to The previous term of office will go down in history because of the insufferability and lack of responsibility of the government. Some proposals had to be withdrawn because they were so ill prepared. Other proposals were so badly designed that the courts could not implement them. No government has ever received such extensive and sharp criticism from the Law Council. Never before has a prime minister been notified to the Constitutional Committee because of deficiencies in the performance of his duties to the same extent. Several ministers were forced to resign because of their failure to perform their duties and because they put national security in serious danger. Other ministers had to resign because of their association with Islamists and violent foreign terrorist organisations. The government failed to gather support for its policies and was voted down on a number of heavy issues. It is perhaps not surprising that an opinion poll from Aftonbladet/ Inizio that came the other day showed that it is only 3 percent of the Swedish people no one wants to see a continued S-MP government. It can be added that the most popular government option in the same measurement was a government consisting of a conservative bloc with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Due to a breathtakingly irresponsible and naive migration policy, the country was placed in a state of balance on the verge of systemic collapse during the last parliamentary term. Insecure reached historical record levels. The number of sexual crimes exploded. The shootings increased. The number of hand grenade explosions in Sweden per capita ended up in parity with the drug cartel Mexico. Stockholm suffered a terrible terrorist attack, which could have been avoided with more responsible governance. Although the previous term of office was marked by a boom and a favourable world economy, and despite the increase in taxes, the government failed to move towards its own target for unemployment. Disabled children lost their assistance. Care queues increased. People died for nothing. Aid organizations such as the City Mission sounded the alarm that the number of poor elderly people in need of support from relief organizations to get food every day of the month reached new record levels. So this was booming. I shudder at the thought of what a government like this would do to Sweden in a recession. Ultimately responsible for all of this was of course Stefan Löfven. Today, we shall vote again on giving him renewed confidence to lead the country. Mr President, I would like to If any Member of this House were to hire a craftsman to repair his house and then it turned out that this craftsman instead destroyed large parts of the house, I honestly do not think that the honourable Member would choose to hire the same craftsman again. The Swedish Democrats believe that there should be at least as high demands on state ministers as on craftsmen. That is why, in today's vote, we will vote against giving Stefan Löfven the confidence to lead the country. Sweden needs renewal. Sweden needs faith in the future. Sweden needs a restored security and a restored welfare. Sweden needs responsible conservative governance.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-38	Mr President, I would like to On 9 September, the Swedes went to elections. 87% of those entitled to vote chose to exercise their right to vote for their representatives who are now in the Chamber. Each of us has a great deal of trust to manage. It is we who represent the Swedish people.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-40	During the election campaign, everyone in this House worked to gain confidence in our respective parties, for the issues we want to pursue and to make Sweden better. From the Green Party we have in every situation highlighted the climate issue, the biggest fate issue we face in Sweden and in the world. We have also worked hard for more humanity. Although, unfortunately, we have been too lonely on the issue of climate and the environment, we have noted that there are several other parties that also have a great deal of commitment to vulnerable people, to democracy and to equal rights. This was also very clear in the House in the previous Prime Minister's vote when the members of the Center Party and Liberals all voted against Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. There were and there are still good reasons for not letting a small conservative government led by Ulf Kristersson in the parliamentary situation in which Sweden finds itself. Such a government would in each individual situation be directly dependent on the Swedish Democrats to get its policy through. Many people are tired of the fact that the political discussion revolves around the Swedish Democrats. But there are reasons why it does, because the Sweden they want to create is something radically different from the Sweden we know. The Sweden that we love and are proud of is characterized by openness to the outside world, curiosity, international cooperation, democracy, being a haven for persecuted and fleeing people and being a player in the world for sustainability and humanism. Our Sweden is a country where we take care of each other while allowing each individual to develop and be himself. Last Wednesday, the Riksdag voted through a budget on the proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The President has chosen to decouple that vote from the decision on who is to form the government. In a formal sense, this is correct. These are two different decisions, and we respect the fact that the President continues along the announced lines and tests Stefan Lövven's confidence. If the President's proposal is today blocked by a majority in this House, all parties need to give serious thought to what positions can be changed in order for Sweden to have a stable and capable government without the risk of racist influence. It will take more time. In the end, however, it is not what determines whether we, as representatives and democracy, step out of this. It is determined by whether we can do our job at all. The Green Party is prepared to continue to contribute constructively to this. In today's vote, the Riksdag takes a position on Stefan Löfven. We want to form a government with the Social Democrats and in today's vote we will vote in favour. We will fight for a government that invests in the climate, a sustainable world and our children's future. We want a government that holds society together rather than pitting groups against each other, a government that stands for humanity. We will do everything we can to ensure that racism does not influence Swedish politics. We're facing a path. A policy that totally ignores our planet and our community, in which a party that wants to change the media, democracy and the rule of law gain influence, is something that we will do everything to stop. Sweden can do better.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-48	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party line has always been clear. It is Stefan Löfven who is our prime minister candidate. To mark it, we will abstain in today's vote. We also see that it is around Stefan Löfven that there is an opportunity to move the process forward. At the same time, as we have been saying all along, if it is a sharp situation and a government leader assumes the mandate of the Left Party in order to be elected, we naturally also need to have influence.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-50	Mr President, I would like to Before the end of this week, the House will have two votes to clarify the parliamentary situation. The first vote took place on Wednesday, the budget vote. The second is today about Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. The vote on the budget meant that the joint budget reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats gained more support than the transitional budget of the Red-Greens. Our reservation is an example of the policy we think would be best for Sweden. It is a policy which is fundamentally based on the Alliance's common reform agenda and which has been developed in the spirit of the Alliance. As a result of our budget reservation, the work line will be strengthened in the coming year. It's an investment in more jobs. The embodiment will be reintroduced so that the queues for health care will be reduced. The tax on the country's pensioners will be reduced and more retirement homes will be built. We will see smaller groups of children in preschool. The tax credit for giving gifts to non-profit organisations is reintroduced. There will be no saving on disability. Instead, there is a first reinforcement of the LSS. We will have more policemen on our streets with higher wages, and the defence will have the resources it needs in an increasingly precarious environment. Stefan Löfven and his proposal for a government base are notwithstanding the restrictions on a transitional budget for another political line. That is the policy that we are discussing in practice today. It is about which reforms, bourgeois or socialist, we think are the best way to move Sweden forward. Mr President, I would like to Government formation has now been going on for several months. It is sad to see how it has led the red-green opinion formation to cross the line of decency. Aftonbladet's LO-owned editorial team has compared the leaders of the Moderates with a Nazi partner. The Social Democrats themselves have claimed that if an alliance government takes office, we have placed ourselves on the wrong side of history. Let it sink in. I'll tell you honestly, I don't know what's worse, whether they believe what they say or whether they consciously make themselves. If they believe what they say, they lack the basic sense of proportion and, to put it bluntly, the basis of reality. But if they turn into poisons, they deliberately poison the political conversation. That kind of dishonest and direct anti-intellectual argument has a purpose, to strengthen the power game of the Social Democrats by deterring those who actually support another option from daring to realise that option. In the short term, it can work. But in a longer perspective, the smear fertilizes populism and also extremism. The good democratic dialogue requires more of us, a higher standard. The voters have the right to expect more from us. Those who live in insecurity have the right to expect more from us. Those who have suffered the betrayal of the past few years from a welfare that is not able to deliver have the right to expect more from us. It is still about them – affected people outside this Chamber – that the Prime Minister's vote is acting. These are the ones we should have in our eyes when making our decision. The vote on the budget shows that the conditions for the formation of a bourgeois government exist. Essential elements of politics are already in place. Then a bourgeois government should also be formed. That is why we are calling for the present proposal to be rejected today. If you want to see a bourgeois policy, you should vote for a bourgeois prime minister. The Christian Democrats will vote against Stefan Löfven today.
i-LnfbTKLCLFADXtCocn9Ldn	If at least 175 of the members of the Riksdag vote no, the Riksdag has rejected the proposal. Otherwise, it has been approved.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-65	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU2 on regional growth. The budget proposal submitted to Parliament on 15 November 2018 was decided by a transitional government. Specific principles were therefore applied in the formulation of the bill, where the starting point was the budget decided by the Riksdag for 2018. These principles were developed together with seven of the eight parties of the Riksdag, and they were agreed upon. After the parliamentary elections of 12 December 2018, in the first stage of the budgetary process, supported other expenditure frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the transitional government and which we believe must be taken into account as a whole, we refrain from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 19. The argument for tabling a reservation on M and KD with other spending frameworks than those of the transitional government is that there are pressing issues that cannot wait. That is not something we can see in this area of expenditure, because there are no proposals at all. What is important, of course, is, as usual, major tax cuts and reductions, such as a sixth job tax deduction, which always benefits those who earn the most. We Social Democrats are focusing on getting a new, effective, cross-block government. It has now been more than three months without a new government. We wanted to give a new government the best conditions for presenting an amending budget with its policy. This is, of course, now made more difficult by the fact that much of the scope for reform goes to tax cuts. Stefan Löfven was voted out without having a plan for what a new government should look like. The Parliament also voted down Ulf Kristersson, who did not have enough support to form a new government. And today you have voted down Stefan Löfven a second time. I'm actually wondering, what's the plan? Madam President, I would like Regional growth is an important policy area for the whole of Sweden. City and country depend on each other. What we have seen for a long time is a strong urbanisation and that the policy that has been pursued has not met the countryside, and this is in fact regardless of the color of the government. That is why we set up a parliamentary rural committee last parliamentary term which delivered 75 proposals on which we agreed in all parties. The report was called For Sweden's rural areas – a coherent policy for work, sustainable growth and welfare. Many of the proposals were implemented, some started and some needed further investigation. For example, we carried out a return of government jobs to the whole of Sweden. It is therefore remarkable that none of this is seen in the M and KD reservation, which has been put forward with the support of SD. It is also remarkable that the SD voted in favour of the expenditure framework for M and KD in this House last Wednesday, but in the Committee on Economic Affairs an hour later, the position in Category 19 Regional Growth was rejected. The only thing you can understand from that is that SD is looking to create chaos and that rural areas are not important. We also decided on a food strategy that is extremely important for Sweden's rural areas and something that the whole industry has asked for. We developed a national forestry programme, and we also had suggestions for a continued investment in Sweden's rural areas. Madam President, I would like We expected an orderly and responsible process with a transitional budget that would have passed the Riksdag as planned when the legislation was adopted and as the principles on which it is built are intended to ensure. It is not reasonable for a transitional government, which cannot resign unless it gets through its budget, to be required to implement the economic policies of other parties. We therefore believe that the most appropriate practice in situations such as this should be for the parliamentary parties to contribute to the formation of a new government that can take office and present an amending budget at Parliament's table as soon as possible. Sweden needs to be governed.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-74	Madam President, I would like All parties in Parliament have the opportunity to present sharp draft budgets. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates chose to do so. Why? The gang crime needs to be broken. We need more police in our country. Entrepreneurs, the business community, have had to resort to many different and costly means to keep thieves away. They are not waiting for a new government that takes time to get in place. Elderly people need care and care. Children need knowledge and order in school. Working should pay off. It is not reasonable for midwives, nurses and teachers and others to have 50% tax on the top part of their income. People should still have money to live for. Entrepreneurs and companies need to know that Sweden sees it as important that they can operate and develop in the country. We need more people who get jobs and generate growth. We also need new types of jobs in the service sector. That is why we have raised the ceiling for RUT, that is to say that at a lower price you can take the help of people who perform services. It also leads to the disappearance of a black market and the creation of safe jobs for people who have not received pensions in the past. We need to re-establish social contracts, we need subsidies to the municipalities, we need a cue billion, the defence needs its money and we need more policemen – 10 000 to 2024.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-78	Madam President, I would like I didn't really get a question to answer. What I can see is that, with regard to the reservation that was put forward in this House, it was not something new under the sun. As usual, there are tax reductions to those who have the most and RUT deductions to those who earn the most – up to SEK 75 000, there are not so many pensioners who need to deduct from RUT, because they don't pay much in tax. Nothing new under the sun. Within this area of expenditure, there were no proposals at all for the whole of Sweden to live.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-80	Madam President, I would like I could ask: why did the Social Democrats not put forward a sharp budget with all the proposals they had to go through the other day? It was perfectly possible for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to present their proposals or to join forces with parties and make a budget. I find it a little disparaging to say that nothing has gone through. Now we are talking about politics and regional growth, and no, it is right that everything is not there, but it is a general policy that affects many different areas. For example, we can take the lonely mother who is going to get to work. She works in the public sector and has a car. Should she be taxed for being able to get to work and not be able to take public transport and put it together in the last row of the month? I don't think so. I think there are things to do. In addition, pensioners have received lower taxes. I don't think it doesn't matter. Everyone needs more money to live and have a good life. It is a reform policy for this that we are building on with ever stronger values for social contracts and more.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-82	Madam President, I would like No, the Social Democrats chose to stick to the agreement they had made with the other parties that we should present a transitional budget. We stuck to what we had agreed. As far as the single mother is concerned, we have actually begun a job of reviewing the travel allowances, for example, and the very single mother will not benefit very much from your major tax cuts.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-84	Madam President, I would like All of Sweden will live. Yeah, that's what they call it, and it's a completely uncontroversial position to market. I know that no party has gone to elections on the contrary. But what about our sparsely populated area? What are the conditions for a life outside the city's soil, and what political signals have been sent to those who have chosen to live and work there? I mean, you say one, but you do other things. The governments of the previous parliamentary term have been the unrivalled champions of contradictory decisions when, on the one hand, the Swedish countryside has been highlighted as something worth defending and, on the other hand, has been pursuing a policy that has accelerated an already advanced urbanisation. Madam President, I would like Swedish countryside – whether we are talking about my own constituency Norrbotten County or sparsely populated regions further south – is fantastic, and there are significant values here. There are ore and forest, power-producing rivers and mountains that have raised downhill skiers of world class. There are hunting grounds, snowmobile trails, lingonberry forest and northern lights, i.e. the conditions for both jobs and for meaningful and qualitative leisure time. Sounds amazing, doesn't it? I myself am fortunate to live in a municipality with low unemployment thanks to two active mines. The ore is where it is and the mine simply cannot be moved. The same is true of the forest. It cannot be used on Östermalm or Hisingen or in Slottsstaden in Malmö where I grew up. But, Madam President, it does not look like that in all parts of the country. There are a wide range of places where industrial death is a fact – communities that take on a languishing existence after the only factory or local sawmill has been shut down and production moved. Why is that? And what do we do about it? Is international competition the only culprit in this drama that forces people from house and home with just the loans on the unsellable villa as a memory, or can it even be that it is not the competitiveness of low-wage countries that ultimately destroys these industries without our own inability to rake the mane to them? Could it be that a lack of IT expansion, a lack of infrastructure, a significant increase in transport costs and the absence of public authorities and services are precisely the signals that lead to companies and their investors choosing new locations for their production? A little to the point: If the state does not believe in the region, why should companies do so? Madam President, I would like It should be remembered that many of these sparsely populated municipalities have a one-sided economy and are therefore vulnerable. The local factory, sawmill, mine or whatever it is can often be the engine itself in the district and be a prerequisite for the fact that there is also a shop, gas station, school, health centre and retirement home. The Swedish democrats therefore want to take greater care than now of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who contribute to the whole country living. We should definitely ensure that those who live and work in these regions do not receive a second-class public service despite the fact that they often pay higher taxes than is the case in the metropolitan regions. If the whole of Sweden is to live, it is time to stop looking at rural areas as something remote and its inhabitants as some that can be scrounged through taxation at what they have most of: distance. Nor should it be regarded as a wasteland from which electricity, milk, the forest, the loaf and the ore come. People who live there should have the same right to, for example, police presence as in the big city. A few months ago I was involved in a traffic accident on the E10 between Gällivare and Luleå. Then came the pronouncing police from Haparanda, 150 miles away. While my wife and I went to Gällivare Hospital, the police took care of our dogs and drove them to the vet in Gällivare. Then the police had 25 miles to drive back to their police station. Madam President, I would like This is not a debate on police appropriations. But I wonder what had happened if anyone in Haparanda had been beaten up in his home during this time. What would have happened if someone had robbed a store and taken hostages? What waiting time is acceptable? And what can a heavily taxed population in sparsely populated areas reasonably demand for community services? Instead of taxing all distances, as the previous government has been doing, I believe that we should encourage and stimulate a more diversified economy, even in sparsely populated areas where realistic alternatives to their own car are entirely illuminated by their absence. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Swedish Democrats believe that the whole country should live – for real! Our regional policy simply does not aim to make rural life work when former state ministers go out and relax. It's supposed to work year round, for all those who can't ride the subway to their jobs.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-97	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Eric Palmqvist! I'll ask you a few questions. Note them! I hope you'll give me some answers, too. Do you think of yourself as a bourgeois politician? I've been following how you Swedish democrats have turned 180 degrees. In 2010 you said that you, without sitting on a right or left-wing scale, were the workers' party that stood up for the countryside. Today you have turned 180 degrees on many questions. Profits in welfare are a typical one. You went to elections because it is wrong that you can channel billions out of business; it is money that should go to welfare. And you turned 180 degrees. There are many questions where you have turned around. Today, you are an extremely right-wing party. Do you view yourself as part of such a thing when you walk the streets of Gällivare? I think you gave a good description of how we are doing in Norrbotten and in the countryside. I agree with a lot of things. But you are in favour of a budget option that really reduces investment in rural areas. You owe them in Norrbotten a response when you support the budget option where you cut the support for the small municipalities that make large wind energy investments. They have been able to get help with everything in the planning of wind farms. But that aid is cut, from 85 million to 15 million. Do you think this will benefit the small municipalities? It is poor municipalities that have major projects in progress, and they will try to match those investments. Do you think it'll help them?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-102	Madam President, I would like There were a number of questions. I tried to take notes during the trip. On the question of whether I regard myself as a bourgeois politician or a left-wing politician, the answer is that I regard myself as a Swedish democratic politician. It should be known to Mr Lahti that the Swedish Democrats have chosen their own path. We have voted on our own budget, in which we actually had higher appropriations in this case than in the proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. But the budgetary rules force us to write a special opinion in this case. We had, among other things, 20 million extra in funding for transport subsidies and 500 million extra for regional investments. We are presented as an extremely right-wing party. It is quite a piant of a left-wing party to call the Swedish Democrats an extreme extreme party. Member Lahti represents a party that has historically made itself known to sympathise with countries that have a radical view of human rights and the like. It's not something we can identify with. When it comes to wind power, it is expensive and inefficient. We have other investments in energy policy, but that is not what we are going to debate here. It will be debated in this House next week.
i-H2xAkbmbVzbTTF3d2R2fin	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers, Eric Palmqvist! As for those with whom we sympathise, if I were a Swedish democratic politician, I would be very careful to raise that issue. As far as wind power is concerned, I agree that this is not what we are debating today. But it is significantly cheaper when you start producing. It goes down in price all the time. Every morning you wake up, the production of wind power has gone down in price. If you compare wind power with the alternative, in terms of energy type, that your party is pushing, the cost is not even half against building a new reactor anywhere in the world.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-108	Madam President, I would like As I said, wind power will be debated in this House next week. Mr Lahti and I live in the same country. We know well that when it is as cold as possible and the lack of power is at its greatest, it is usually still wind. Then wind power produces nothing or very little. The fact that the electricity-intensive industry needs completely different conditions and rules of play is not unknown to us. That is why we have other solutions for this. As I said, however, there are issues that will be debated in this House next week.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-111	Madam President, I would like Since the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than the one we wish, the Center Party refrains from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in category 19 Regional growth. The Center Party went to elections on a very ambitious reform programme to move Sweden forward. We want a development that gives people the same opportunities to live, work and run businesses, no matter where they live. The policy needs to be designed with an understanding that the conditions are different in different parts of the country. A close-knit policy, in which decisions are made as close to people as possible, enables such a development. In connection with our proposals for regional development being discussed by the Riksdag in spring 2019, I intend to develop the Center Party's view on policy orientation. Madam President, I would like The whole country will live. I also say: Take the whole country into use! This means that you cannot sit with a big city perspective and decide how big a limit people who live and work in rural areas should be. I would like to take this opportunity to mention a few things that I have met when I have met easily despaired people in rural areas. There is a great frustration out in our sparsely- and rural areas, where people feel that the state has abandoned them. If we are to stop the split of Sweden – we can compare with the developments we have seen in Britain through Brexit, miss the pleasure that took Trump to power and development in Poland, Hungary, Austria, Italy, Russia and Turkey – we must let the whole country live and take the whole country into use. Some of the comments I have received will now be taken up. I'll start with co-financing state infrastructure. Poor municipalities that are busy caring for school, health care and care are forced to help fund state roads and the state's railway areas. This accelerates the differences between municipalities, and this affects poor municipalities the most. Another area is higher education. In growth regions there is higher education in the form of universities and higher education institutions. Many rural municipalities are desperately trying to offer training to their citizens and are building educational centres for municipal tax money while growing cities are getting it for free. Then I would like to refer to the relocation of authorities. The government's ambition to relocate government agencies is good. However, it should be borne in mind that the Stockholm area has received approximately 10 000 new state jobs over the last 20 years, while 239 other municipalities have lost 29 000 state jobs. Now the government has announced that a few percent of the over 100 000 agency jobs in the Stockholm region will be relocated. I have criticised the government for the announcement of jobs to be relocated into other big cities or in growth towns and not in those places that need jobs. Then I'll switch to the infrastructure. We have an unequal distribution of how infrastructure funds are distributed across the country. When I meet representatives and experts who advocate high-speed rail between our three major cities in the southern part of the country, they point out what a fantastic development is going to take place between the three major cities. Housing will be built, and there will be population growth. It's amazing, I understand, but I also usually ask: Where do all these people who are creating population growth come from? How are the municipalities that are a little further away doing? What is their amazing development? I would like to point out that I have nothing against high-speed rail, but I would like us to take a decision at the very moment when we are deciding on high-speed rail also to invest in Dalabanan, Botniabanan, the Stockholm- Oslo railway, the Gothenburg- Oslo railway, the Inland railway line and other important railway sections throughout the country. I'd like to bring up the woods, too. Forest owners who have used their family forest for generations are deprived of the right to use their forest and end up in a legally insecure situation where government officials can destroy generations of work. Right now there is a legal process in which people have been deprived of the right to use their forests and where the state does not want to pay compensation. Such violations of property rights I thought could only happen in non-democratic countries. I'll go over to the beachfront accommodation. If you live in rural areas, attractive accommodation is usually the only way to attract residents. This is blocked by the interpretation that authorities make of the existing legislation despite the fact that the Riksdag has taken two decisions to ease beach protection legislation. The Center Party therefore proposes removing the general beach protection legislation and identifying areas of special protection. The municipalities should have a much greater influence on beach protection. Predators are a problem for rural people. Those affected by increased predatory pressure must have a real influence on predator management. It is difficult to obtain loans if you live or run businesses in rural areas to build a house or your company. If you manage to get a loan, you have to pay a higher interest rate than in the big cities. That's how I move on to distance taxes. Sweden is the EU's second most sparsely populated country after Finland. Is it reasonable for us to tax distances? How does it hit sparsely populated and forested areas? We will, of course, work to reduce emissions, but introducing a kilometre tax on lorries and a flight tax will affect those who live far from the big cities and in the woodlands. There are other ways to reduce emissions and to tackle what is perceived as unfair competition from foreign hauliers. Free admission has been introduced at state museums. Where are the state museums? I myself sit on the board of a rural museum that is working hard to preserve a Swedish cultural heritage after one of our greatest artists. Why is Anders Zorn's business not worth preserving? Where's the police? In large parts of our country, it takes several hours for the police to come when there is a wife abuse. Would that have been accepted in Stockholm? In my home country, in Mora police district, there is a police patrol on duty during daily nights and nights. It takes 3 hours and 20 minutes to get by car from the north to the south of the police area. This is what it looks like in much of the country. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the state's escape from the countryside. Why does the Tax Agency, the District Court, Kronofogden, Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen, Skogsstyrelsen, Lantmäteriet, police, health care with several of the smaller cities in Sweden? Most recently, it is the Director-General of the Enforcement Authority who, with a strange reference to the government's decision to relocate authorities, wants to close a number of offices and move them to regional growth centres. The government managed to stop a wave of closures of tax offices. The current Director-General of the Enforcement Authority seems to be completely tone-deaf on this issue, which must have consequences when we have a government in place. Madam President, I would like If we in Sweden want to have a real regional policy, there must be major changes. Several of our authorities must also be given a promotion mission in their instructions. One must be able to have several perspectives in the performance of one's authority. Contributions are not the great solution to the inequality that exists in the country. It would only consolidate the differences. Instead, we should focus on providing people with equal conditions in terms of infrastructure, service, state presence, training opportunities and venture capital. We must give people an opportunity to grow and create their own future.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-129	Madam President, I would like Colleagues and listeners! We shall now debate the Enterprise Committee's report No 2. First of all, in the parts concerning the report's presentation of results, I would like to say that we share the view on how this has been dealt with this time. With regard to the announcement, we are also satisfied with the conclusion reached by the government. Now for the allocation of funds for regional growth, that is, category 19. I would like to make it clear here that the Left Party has abstained from taking part in the decision because the framework decision on the state budget was the subject of the citizens' way of creating confusion and chaos in the country. That is exactly what happened when their budget was heard, and this was made possible only with the help of the Swedish Democrats, who support the budget, and from the Centre Party and Liberals, who released it. Madam President, I would like What does it say to you when only 4 out of 17 Members participate in the decision on the allocation in one area of expenditure? For me, the signal is the bells. A small minority with the help of the Swedish Democrats have made the transitional government hostage to manage and take consequences that become completely strange in society. They want to create chaos in a situation where the focus should be on getting to a government that most of the Riksdag would accept or let go. I would like to mention Arbetsförmedlingen and Skogsstyrelsen, which are a couple of authorities that will have major consequences in their activities. Do you think those who are affected there are the same people who are looking for new ROT and RUT deductions? No, it's not like that. Clearly, the budget supporters who got their budget through on the framework decision for the state budget have others who are protected beyond what I and the Left Party are protecting, and I suppose that has a natural explanation. The party that coined the expression adults in the room suddenly becomes, at least for me, the party that really makes a mess of it. Madam President, I would like I know that everything I touch on in my speech is not directly linked to the report we are discussing now, but these consequences definitely affect regions and municipalities. The consequences are absolutely linked to many things associated with regional growth. Together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, the Left Party has a special opinion in which we explain and develop our view of the transitional budget and how it was intended to be used and developed. In a memorandum from the Council of State Committee, certain guidelines have been issued for the practical work of the Government Office during a transitional government period. The Constitutional Committee, when examining the powers of a transitional government, has referred to these guidelines. Our hope was, of course, that a responsible parliament now, in the unique situation that it actually is for us in Sweden, would follow these. This would create a practice, so that chaos would be avoided if situations like this were to arise again in our great country, which really deserve better than this! We will remember what happened after the election this autumn 2018. At that time, more than half of the newly elected members of the Riksdag voted against the Prime Minister's support, despite the fact that the Red-Green parties constitute the largest bloc with 144 mandates against the 143 mandates of the bourgeois parties. For this reason, all ministers were dismissed, and Sweden is now governed by a transitional government. In this situation, when the government cannot call for new elections or resign, creating chaos in this way, two things have been made clear to me. First of all, there are probably more parties that should claim the name. Secondly, if anyone starts talking about adults in the room, I'll take away everything I have in the room!
i-d681f63a74a2146f-140	Madam President, I would like We are different parties in parliament, for natural reasons. We have choices where people choose different parties. So, according to Birger Lahti, if you present a budget that does not suit the way the Left Party looks at the world, it is a budget in chaos. It's very interesting. Birger Lahti, is it a problem that we should try to crack gang crime, get police officers in place and get the core of security for people out in our country? We've heard how long it takes the police to arrive up in Norrland. Is it a problem that we get money and get older care started or that children get knowledge and order in schools? Is it a problem that people get money left on the last year and do not have to pay 50% tax? I understand that this is not in line with what the Left Party thinks, but we think it is good that people like the lone mother can manage. Entrepreneurs and companies want to hire. They want security. They don't want gang crime in the backyard. They also want to find rules and have it good to develop their business. We want people to hire. No, Birger Lahti, those who work at Arbetsförmedlingen may not use RUT or ROT. I don't know. I'm sure you'll find them there, too. In any case, many people throughout the country use these deductions, and people get jobs in that sector. In the past, there was an increase in funding for the Public Employment Service, which was then planned to be reduced. But now it became a transitional government, so no sharp proposals have been put forward. Then this is no longer in the game, and all of a sudden it is terrible that other parties do what they had planned to do but that did not happen. In addition, Birger Lahti, the Left Party supports the proposals under discussion now and would agree to a government that talks about defence taxes, that is, taxes on the richest. Let's talk about reality!
i-d681f63a74a2146f-147	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte, for your commitment! I'll start with the police. If AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson thinks there are police officers on the shelf somewhere that it is just to pick up, no matter how much money you spend in the budget, she lives in another world! There were great signals from the government that sat on how to train more police officers. It's a different picture than yours. I would be very careful to talk about care and care for the elderly when billions roll out in profit distributions. Would your proposal lead us to overcome this? No, there are other means that I think are much better. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson talks about single mothers. We can compare the lonely mothers I know and the ones you know. Which of them is it that has access to a better world and with what policy? I'd like to look into it a little bit more. You may feel lonely mothers who are so well off that they earn more than $5,000. Then I did not actually refer to those who work at Arbetsförmedlingen but to those who, with labour market measures via Arbetsförmedlingen, would have got a job in, for example, Skogsstyrelsen. They will suffer, but they may not exist in your world, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. They are definitely in my world, and they will suffer. They are not the ones who would have received these labour market employment contracts that can afford to deduct 75 000 ROTs. They will never have such money to move with. Clearly, you have different friends and acquaintances than I do. You stand up for them. Of course: we belong to different parties. But here I see clearly an essential difference that shows which world you live in and which you represent.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-153	Madam President, I would like I don't think Birger Lahti and I move in such different circles. I think the acquaintances and the people we meet all over Sweden are very similar. We meet all kinds of people. No, cops aren't on the shelf. That's the problem. Tick-tock, time said. Time has passed, and these police officers must be in place. You can't just wait. Closed welfare activities result if you take money away from those who are going to do a good job. Is Birger Lahti going to close the little health center in a country? It can be in Dalarna, in Jämtland or in other places in Norrland. There, private entrepreneurs have taken the lead in creating an activity that works in a very good way, where citizens are satisfied. No, there is not much care left when you remove this and prevent people who have worked in healthcare and have good knowledge and do good work. You are constantly referring to something that involves profits, but that is not just what it is about. It's about other things. It's about quality and good stuff going on in our country that you now want to stop. Not least, people with disabilities have got great activities instead of, as before, being in an institution. I get really upset when you raise this issue all the time!
i-d681f63a74a2146f-158	Madam President, I would like As far as health care companies are concerned, I understand that it grieves you that you would have some kind of cap on the profits you can make. We've never been against alternatives or having another performer. But the fact that you, at any cost, are fighting for there to be no limitations is something that puzzles me. In my last line, I forgot to answer this about companies. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says that companies want to hire and that they do not want crime. I'm visiting a lot of companies. Every time I ask what entrepreneurs think is the most important thing they want us politicians to do. Then they say, "I can't find people with the right skills." That's the biggest problem. I always get that answer when I visit companies. I was last told last week when I visited companies. Clearly we visit different kinds of companies. But at least the answer I get is perfectly clear.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-161	Madam President, I would like I'm a liberal, and I don't think life should be a lottery. You should have the opportunity and the freedom to do what you want, and together we will make it possible. A liberal policy for regional growth seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. We will take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development and company competitiveness that exist in different parts of the country. The basis for our prosperity is and remains entrepreneurship and economic development. Liberals want to give people and businesses all over the country opportunities to grow and develop. In this way, we take advantage of the entire Swedish development power, growth potential and employment opportunities. General efforts at national level for jobs, training and a better business environment need to be combined with regional efforts. The three metropolitan regions are growing fastest, as are the regional cities, while most of the country's municipalities have been drained of population and jobs when businesses moved or closed down. This has led to increased burdens, while public and private services have deteriorated. Worst has it been for the municipalities of Bergslagen, Värmland, Inner Norrland and Eastern Småland, which in several cases have become depopulated areas. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to live, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which in turn can finance our common welfare. Sweden therefore needs a business-friendly policy, and this is not achieved by increasing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Instead, regulatory simplification and a business-friendly environment are needed. I would also like to highlight four vital elements, not only for companies but also for private individuals, which make it possible for the whole of Sweden to live: But in order for people and companies to want to live and operate throughout Sweden, it is important that there is access to a well-functioning basic service at a reasonable distance. This applies to public authorities as well as municipal and commercial services. In sparsely populated areas, service solutions based on local conditions and collaboration with companies and civil society have the opportunity to become long-term and sustainable. The government has previously announced that it wants to move government agencies' headquarters from Stockholm. More importantly, however, the state's service to citizens, which has gradually disappeared from large parts of the country, is maintained – for example the police, the Employment Service and the Migration Agency. In order to be able to offer good quality and efficiency, this can be done in a joint organisation, for example at local service centres. Madam President, I would like As I said at the beginning of my speech, a liberal policy of regional growth seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in less-urban areas. Liberals want to take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development power and the competitiveness of companies that exist in different parts of our country. I naturally support the Liberals' budget and ask the House to take note of our specific opinion and not to take part in the decision.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-171	Madam President, I would like I had hoped to stand here and speak well of a scaled-down transitional budget – a transitional budget without real political substance, based on a number of principles to safeguard order and order in the situation we are now in, after the elections and before a government takes office. The principles had been firmly anchored by the Minister of Finance both in the KU and with the seven political leaders in the parties. In addition, I would have liked to have said that the Green Party has a policy of regional development, green growth and a vibrant countryside. I would have said then that rural development is central and that we should be able to meet the major challenges of the future precisely by investing in rural development. The environmental party's policy for rural and regional development can be summarised in five points: If we had a transitional budget, I would have stayed here. Now, Madam President, I must instead focus on the financial perspective voted through by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. We must thank the EU for the fact that M and KD have not paid so much in the area of regional growth. We must also take this opportunity to thank the European Union for the Structural Funds. They are important, and the Green Party believes that they will be even more effective with an even clearer focus on climate, or carbon economy, as it says in EU-Swedish. I would like to draw attention to some other issues relating to regional growth outside this expenditure area. Let me give you some examples of how the gap between city and country is widening with the M, KD and SD budgets. Entrepreneurship is affected. A doubling of VAT on nature guides hits rural entrepreneurs directly. Annika Fredriksson, Chairman of the Natural Tourism Company, says: It is strange that a budget exercise – she refers to the Moderates – with the title Green jobs are getting less. The Moderates have a rhetorical style that we'll have to watch out for. You say one thing and you do another. It is the same in climate, environment and nature. The Conservatives' environmental policy spokesperson said in the Report the other night that the M, KD and SD budgets are ambitious in terms of environment and climate. That's not true. It involves the dismantling of Environmental Sweden, which directly affects over 1 500 jobs and 4 000 companies in the green environment sector. It is a hard blow to the whole of Sweden and to the whole of the countryside. It also means that the climate change is slowing down. We have received a report from the IPCC showing that if we are to reach the 1.5-degree target, we need to accelerate the pace of climate change. Instead, M, KD and SD are gradually phasing out climate investment, reducing the efficiency of climate change. The most effective climate action is the one actually implemented. Housing is affected. Rental rights with investment aid account for nearly half of the rental rights built in Sweden each year. The abolition of the aid from 1 January will significantly change the rules governing the various actors in the housing sector. Is it only the red-green parties that now want companies to have long-term rules of play? This, of course, also affects the construction of smaller rural areas the hardest. That is precisely where investment support is most needed. Traveling is made more difficult. Free trips to public transport for young people during the summer are abolished. Guess once it is the young people in the countryside who are the hardest hit by this! There the trips are longer, and the costs of the bus ticket are higher. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the transitional budget was not a beautiful budget. It was soulless and in the absence of a new powerful red-green policy. The political ambitions had to be sidelined, but the transitional budget was the order of a country with a transitional government. Earlier in my speech, I quoted Annika Fredriksson from the natural tourism companies, and she can also finish my speech. The proposal to quadruple VAT on natural guides seems to be a hasty, ill-thought-out and ignorant. ..................................................... I'm also saying a hawsman's work. That's what this whole M-KD-SD budget is. The Green Party obviously refrains from taking part in the decision, because the framework decision for the state budget represents what Birger Lahti said earlier: this is about chaos and not about order for Sweden's economy and Sweden's government.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-185	Madam President, I would like Sweden is an elongated country with large distances in northern Europe. Sweden is also connected with other countries and a global sphere. You can't just do things locally in the small perspective, for example, deliver subsidies for the purchase of electric bicycles, which has been the Green Party's big thing over the past four years. It is important to work both at home and especially internationally, because we belong to a world where we are going to get around and where we are dependent on others. To screw in the system at home in Sweden so that you squeeze your own companies and people who need to get around do not deliver when the rest of the world is not there. Therefore, these meetings and work on climate policy are important. The removal of the symbolic flight tax is hated by red - green representatives. However, symbolic policies that tax people who travel instead of looking at emissions and who move flights from Sweden, for example to neighbouring Denmark, have no effect. I would also like to say that if you think there is public transport around the country in the countryside, you have not been there. It's also where people use the car the most. This is how families manage to take their children and grandchildren to school and other places where they are going. In addition, the Green Party has been involved in introducing a kilometre tax for entrepreneurs in this country, and this is not particularly beneficial for companies and growth.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-190	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson raises many questions. Of course, Sweden is an elongated country – we don't use that expression very often anymore. Of course, global work is very important. Now this is about regional growth and regional development, and globally, regional development and rural development are also very important things in the climate work. Isabella Lövin is currently in climate negotiations in Poland, and of course the Green Party is perhaps the most prominent in Swedish politics in terms of investments in international work in the field of climate change. The role of companies is very important in this work. Many companies in Sweden are also leading the international discussion on how to cope with climate change. It is these companies, which are developing strongly in Sweden right now, that M, KD and SD want to hit. It's making it harder for them to be leaders in the world. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson rallies over the e-bike venture, but the fact is that those living in rural areas have the greatest benefit from the e-bike. With an electric bike you can easily cycle 20 km to your job. I'm from Uppsala. It is Sweden's fourth largest city. But it is also Sweden's leading rural municipality with the most residents in rural areas. I can also say that the young people who live around the countryside in Uppsala have appreciated the free bus ticket they received this summer. And there are rural areas all over Sweden.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-194	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell talks about Uppsala, but we also have Norrland and everything in between. What's it look like there? In the last two years Swedish emissions have increased, according to SCB. You can think about that. The Institute of Economics has also noted that seven out of eight investments in climate are lacking in efficiency. There will be a lot of symbolic politics. Of course, everyone will be happy when they can buy something that will be cheaper when they receive a subsidy. But we have a lot of things that need to be done in this country, and then it's a matter of spending the right money in the right place. Finally, there has been a lot of talk about it being slaughtered in the budget during the hours since the budget was taken. But it is as much money or more if you compare with 2016. All the time, therefore, there is a symbolic discussion about who does the most for the environment. I would like to say that it is a matter of doing the best things to achieve the best results.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-198	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to abolish the effective climate policy in Sweden, which is about economic instruments, including aviation tax. It also lowers the ambitions of economic instruments in relation to the CO2 tax. It is not an effective climate policy. The most effective climate policy is precisely the financial instruments. In conclusion, Madam President, I would also like to answer the Moderates to the question of whether we are squeezing companies. No, it is indeed the Moderates who are responsible for a policy in which 4 000 companies are directly affected by the cuts made in the area of environment, climate and nature.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-200	Madam President, I would like As you who follow this debate, and many who now belong, this report concerns Category 19 Regional Growth. The objectives of the area are development power in all parts of the country with enhanced local and regional competitiveness. In the autumn, after the whole framework of the budget has been drawn up, the framework for each committee will be established. That is, and more so, what we are discussing here today. The policy content itself will come back for consideration in the spring. Then we shall talk about the content of the policy that exists in this area, along with the motions that parties and individuals have raised during the autumn. Then we will also discuss more how it will be possible to live, live and work throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Nearly 3.5 billion are managed under Category 19. The structure is such that there are, you might say, two parts: one part is about performance reporting and one part is about appropriations. There's three of them. All parties in this House have supported the part relating to the presentation of results. It has been implemented for a number of years. You look at how you report your policies and highlight the reporting from different directions and edges and look at how the accounting can be facilitated and become more clear and transparent in different ways in order to be able to take on the results. Regional policy is related to a number of areas outside Category 19. One of the areas concerned is rural policy, which has also been up here earlier today. It is presented under heading 23 Areella industries, rural areas and foodstuffs. Anyone to be included in the budget will find that there is no reference to the objective of a coherent rural policy in Category 19. Then you want to see it clarified so that you can follow in where things should be presented. Madam President, I would like We have supported and think that the work on improving and developing economic governance is good. In the area of Regional Growth, the Swedish Agency for Growth is a central player. The Swedish Agency for Growth is an authority that in many ways plays a role in the project funds discussed here, which in various ways benefit the parts of the country. The Agency has a mandate to develop, until 1 February 2019, a national monitoring system for project activities financed under the appropriation called 1:1 Regional Growth Measures. That is something we welcome. We very much hope that it will be simple, effective and clear so that the results will be good with a lot of benefit and administration will be reduced. Regional growth is used for various regional business support, project activities and co-financing of EU programmes. Most of the support decided under the allocation is either multi-annual collaborative projects with a wide range of public private actors or multi-annual enterprise investments. There is also an allocation 1:2 Transport subsidies, which go to regional areas and relate to compensation to companies in the four northernmost counties which, due to long transport distances, have cost disadvantages. It shall meet the needs of these undertakings and shall stimulate an increased rate of value-added in the region's economy. Appropriations 1:3 relate to European funds. It is the Regional Growth Fund that will deliver the last parts of the money that will remain there in the period 2014-2020. There are also final regulations from the period before, which ranged from 2007 to 2013. It is the payments from the state budget under the Regional Development Fund to eight regional and a national Structural Fund programmes under the objective of investment for growth and jobs that is at stake. The Swedish Agency for Growth is the authority that manages and certifies these parts. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! I would just like to ask a brief question so that it does not take up any longer: Do you believe in the reports that are coming about the climate and what challenges we face? Do you believe them, or what's your picture?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-213	Madam President, I would like I'm going to start where we left off in our last line shift, when Birger Lahti said that companies that he has contact with talk about lack of expertise. You don't talk about other parts. I just wanted to let you know that we talked about stealing and breaking and entering, and that you get unpleasantness from gangs who get in and pick products and other things from companies so that they get minus in the account. I think, no, I'm convinced and know that companies talk about different parts. Of course there is a lack of competence. There is a lack of skills because many young people finish high school without having the education they need. At the same time, the labour market screams for the people it needs. It doesn't match. It is about shortcomings from high school and that every person has the right to receive the education that he needs. We see in different places in our elongated country appalling numbers of unauthorized teachers – over 50 percent in some municipalities. In addition, we need order and understanding of our educations and our schools in order for everyone to be able to assimilate knowledge. At the same time, the business community must be linked in such a way that it becomes clear what responsibility it has to get to work. So there is a major structural problem here that needs to be resolved, and that is very important.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-217	Madam President, I would like I thought it would be easy to answer. I just asked you a short question, but you managed to avoid it, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. But maybe I wasn't expecting an answer. You can have another chance. Then I don't get any more. I'm not going to go into that part, but I need to develop it a little bit. I think just like this: An equal society is much better for everyone, and there, too, entrepreneurs would get away from this, that young children or young people do hyss when they grow up in a society that is not equal or safe. I'm trying again: Do you believe in the climate reports that are coming? You tell me! How would you ensure that flights are reduced, especially in Sweden but hopefully globally? The fuel you're talking about doesn't exist today. We don't have enough alternative fuels. These are great proposals – we will also develop them. Tell me how to reduce aviation and the climate issue!
i-d681f63a74a2146f-220	Madam President, I would like After all, you have two lines, and since we started a discussion that was not completed, I started at that end and answered it. I took the chance because Birger Lahti requested the floor. Of course, things happen in our world with the environment and climate. But there is a discussion that Sweden will do everything in a world where borders do not seem to exist, where country becomes another country and you will suddenly do everything within your own country and therefore screw a system together. I don't believe that. I do not believe that people should not be able to use their cars in the small area until they can change cars and get a new car so that they can get to work, because you can't get out of work. I believe in the flight. We are still working on fuels and technology development, absolutely, and with start-up and landing fees. You should tax what releases, not people who travel.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-224	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. I myself have quite a lot of experience in politics, but not in parliament but in municipal politics. I think that political governance is something very important. I also have my roots in Norrland and own forest in northern Västerbotten. We'll talk about Norrland on more occasions. This is about your previous question to me. I have learned one thing that is important in the work of politics: that those who govern should have a political impact. That is why I thought it was important to have the transitional budget, because it gave the greatest opportunity for the government in the future to change and include its proposals in an amending budget. I am a little interested in how you reason and how you view the principles that existed for the transitional budget. Was it any particular of the principles that existed that made you think it was right and proper that the Moderates and the KD went forward with their political proposal in this particular situation for Sweden?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-229	Madam President, I would like The principle is very simple: out there is a reality that is going on. The Parliament is not a transitional Parliament, as the government is a transitional government, and the Moderates will always pursue their policy based on what they believe in. I can list it again. We're gonna crack the gang crime and get more cops in place. We invest in elderly care and care and in children with knowledge, order and life chances. Work, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship will pay off. Higher ceilings for RUT create jobs in the service sector. We want to restore the social contract with law and order and security out there. As late as this week, reports came. Thankfully, there are good pages on Facebook where people engage in neighbourly cooperation, but there are also leagues that go around and pretend to be home help staff and other things. I think it's very important that we get the systems moving. We don't have time to wait. Local government funding of 5 billion has also been added. Defence – yes, we know what our world looks like, and the money will be in place. It is simply a question of getting started with a policy that is believed in for this country. That is why we have tabled our proposal. The question could go back: why did the Social Democrats not put forward an active draft budget with the Green Party or who you now wanted to propose? You could have done that very well. You've all had that opportunity. Instead, you sit passively and complain that there are others who have tabled a budget.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-236	Madam President, I would like It was fun that I had to answer a question, and I absolutely will. We have done this because we have a transitional government, which has no opportunity to conduct politics. They must not engage in political activity at this stage. That is why we have not presented a political budget, but a transitional budget. However, my question to you remains. You're arguing for the policy of the Moderates to be swiftly implemented. But we really don't know which government we're getting. It may well be another government, where the Moderates do not sit. Is it reasonable, then, for that government to rule with a moderate budget, rather than with a budget that you are able to influence yourself? Don't you, as a politician, want government politicians to have a political impact?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-238	Madam President, I would like Of course, I want policy to have an impact; that is why we have tabled a budget. Here in Parliament, we do not have a stop to put forward budgets that are political. The Green Party can therefore present a budget with others at any time. It'll take a while before you get a budget in place. Things take time, such as referrals. That is why it was urgent for us to present a budget, whatever the government. Either things are going on and going on, or there are things you can change. However, some things are stuck, which are very important to me: that people have money left in their wallets and that pensioners receive higher pensions.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-240	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear your speech, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar, where you talk about performance reporting and what we have done in the past term of office. We are very proud of what we have actually achieved in the four years we have been in government. We implemented very good rural policy, and I thank you for talking about it too. What I am thinking about, since you have no proposals in this area, is what you really want in the coming year in terms of rural areas and their development. That is not something you can see in your draft budget.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider. The results report is about economic governance and how to control the area of regional growth. This is what we have been looking at, even during the time of the alliance government. You look at how the government presents its approach to seeing results and following the policy proposals – if it is acceptable and you can see transparency, transparency and synergies. So this has nothing to do with politics in itself, and that is why we have found it very good that you have this accounting and can look at things and get them controlled. After four years, you're proud. Yes, I hope you are when you run a policy to achieve goals. We have many objectives on which we agree, but at the same time we have many different ways of achieving those objectives. We may see that what is a dead end for Monica Haider is an opportunity for us, or, as I see it, in a red-green government there are very many stops and bans, in areas where we see opportunities. This is really what this is all about, isn't it? As far as the policy in this area is concerned, it is about the financial framework today, and they have a number of times been the same. The Moderates have thus spent about the same money as the Social Democrats. The content of the policy itself comes in the exercise discussions after Christmas, on the spring page. Today it is about the framework.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-245	Madam President, I would like I guess that's what I was expecting: that I wouldn't get an answer to the question. You are very empty in this area and do not have much rural policy at all. You never have.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-246	Madam President, I would like Yes, you can express yourself in a game of politics, but in reality it is not true. For example, Monica Haider and I have met the forest industry a number of times, and they have talked about the problems they have with the mileage tax introduced by Monica Haider's government from a distance. They also have problems finding drivers. There are a great many structural problems that need to be resolved. We do not intend to tax roads, lorries, etc., because people should be able to get through. It's a way of living in the countryside. You should be able to live, live and run businesses. Apart from regional growth, we obviously have policies in all areas that address it, in the form of national economic policies. We will debate it next week.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-248	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' vision is that the whole of Sweden, with both people and companies, should be given good opportunities to grow, develop and live. Sweden's growth depends on both the business environment and the environments in which people live and work. Competitive companies, good communications, attractive living and living environments and access to public and commercial services are crucial for the development opportunities of regions and municipalities. We Christian Democrats believe that every citizen, no matter where you live and live in Sweden, should be able to have hope for his or her future and be able to see his or her own potential and the potential of the environment to create a dignified existence with its own livelihood. Every hour worked should be important for the individual's economy and for society. Although there are significant differences between different parts of the country, the feeling of not having access to the same service, quality in school, health care and long-term care or jobs is often the same. A Sweden that holds together requires a policy that provides the conditions for cohesion and community. Madam President, I would like The creation of regional growth is about daring to invest in the development of businesses, which provide jobs and thus increased consumption. Long-term conditions and conditions are needed at local level, where the public interacts with the business community. We Christian Democrats believe that the conditions of local business are crucial to Sweden's growth. During the previous term of office, I had the confidence and privilege to be a municipal politician and municipal councillor in Täby Municipality, located in Stockholm County. I worked daily to try to improve the business environment, see and listen to companies and collaborate and hook arms to create good conditions, because that's only when growth can happen. None of this can be taken for granted. We politicians should not just look at and believe that this solves itself – that that fixes the market itself. Sweden is growing and going to grow, but we're not going to grow like that. We will grow together in the best way, and then we need to focus on some basic factors and work for a good business community with healthy companies, which are also given opportunities for growth. Properly managed, this gives a positive development throughout the country. I am thinking of infrastructure, both the digital infrastructure and our transport routes, and of the efforts we are making and which must be carried out in the future. Changes in the labour market are needed in order to reduce unemployment and ensure that each individual has relevant tasks. This presupposes that there are homes where people can live their lives and are allowed to have dreams. Nutrition policy must provide stable, good and simplified conditions for more and growing companies. The private business community has been, is and will always be the backbone of Sweden's welfare. Without companies, we have no welfare. We Christian Democrats believe that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often family businesses, should be at the heart of the shaping of enterprise policy. The development of the basic industry is also very important for regional growth and job creation in Sweden, not least outside our metropolitan regions. The basic industry and the management of our common natural resources are the foundation of Swedish prosperity. Competitive industry and a strong base industry require a secure and secure supply of electricity, which the Energy Agreement has laid the foundations for through secure access to nuclear energy and the development of renewable energy sources. Madam President, I would like The opportunities offered by the digital society by reducing the importance of geographical location – whether it be a school class exchange with a school on the other side of the world, telecommunications services between Europe and India or diagnosis of disease in Australia using X-rays from a Swedish hospital – allow people with the right technology and access to electricity without interruption to live and work anywhere. For the number of jobs to increase both in suburbs and in rural areas, digital skills need to be increased and more accessible by our authorities. Today, our population is more digital than the Swedish Government. Having said that, however, I would like to emphasise the need for continued support functions across our country to support those who are not yet digital enough. Today, digital knowledge is required for almost any job, and to keep in touch with both private and public businesses. Good communications are needed throughout Sweden: rail, shipping, air transport and not least car. The car is a tool for freedom, and here we Christian Democrats are also counting on the expansion of charging infrastructure for electric cars that must take place throughout the country. Good communications are a prerequisite for our elongated country to have growth that develops prosperity and employment and for the whole of Sweden to live. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-261	Madam President, I would like You, Camilla, told us that we must dare to invest in the conditions for companies and that the local business environment is important. How, then, do you, Camilla, and the Christian Democrats view the tax shock in the budget for nature tourism entrepreneurs? There will be quadruple VAT on nature guides, which hits rural entrepreneurs directly. How do you explain as a Christian Democrat that you want to invest in this tax shock?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-263	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Maria for the question. The conditions for companies are important for our overall well-being. As I said in my speech, without companies we have no welfare. Today, nature guides may not have the greatest impact on ensuring that Sweden has continued functioning well-being. We do not believe that this has given the benefit that could be expected from nature guides. This is symbolic policy.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-266	Madam President, I would like Natural tourism companies are an important part of our tourism industry. It attracts many customers from Sweden and the rest of the world. This development is important for Sweden and for the local business community. Tourism contributes not only to jobs in the tourism industry itself, but also to jobs in the restaurant industry, the hotel industry and other activities alongside. The reduction in VAT on natural guides was recently introduced and, without even evaluating it, you are abolishing it now. How can the Christian Democrats want to raise taxes on companies in the important tourism industry?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-268	Madam President, I would like It is true that the tourism industry is important, and just as I said in my speech, it is important that politicians at local level talk and provide good conditions so that companies can develop and gain skills on the ground. I met an entrepreneur last week who said: Skills are very important. But right now there's no one to find, so give me incompetent staff. We need to work locally to improve the conditions for companies, regardless of the industry. It is important to work with these issues in a good way in the future.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-270	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla for her speech. I'll try to make it easy for you so you can keep track of the questions, and they won't be many. First of all, do you, Camilla, and your party believe that the climate reports are correct? My second question follows: you want to remove the tax on air travel. I understand that you may have different views on this, but what is your picture? If you believe the climate reports, Camilla, how are we going to reduce our flight? If you don't believe in them, it's easy, because then you don't care about reducing your flight. How do you want to reduce your flight? I understand this with fuel exchange, and I agree that it will develop. But we do not have these fuels in place; they do not exist today. I therefore hope that the answer will not be just that. So to my third question. You were talking about simplified conditions for companies, Camilla. Can you give some examples of what this might be about? When I ask this question to companies, it usually becomes very quiet, and then they come up with some shoddy proposals for simplification. I know many entrepreneurs, and most say that it's pretty good to be an entrepreneur in Sweden. I would therefore like to hear your suggestions as to what the simplified terms would be.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-275	Madam President, I would like I thank Birger Lahti for the questions. We Christian Democrats, of course, believe in the report of the UN Panel on Climate Change, which shows that we need to have stable electricity supplies over time. More nuclear power, more than 500 reactors, will be needed to cope with the electrification that the whole world is facing in order to achieve the climate targets. Here we have a discussion for the whole of Sweden in the future in which aircraft, car and many other things are included. It's about how we can switch to get more electricity in the future. Like you, we therefore believe in the climate reports, and we believe that we are pursuing a policy in the right direction. As far as simplified conditions are concerned, I also usually get and ask that question when I visit companies. I share your view, Birger, that many people think that there are good conditions for running companies in Sweden today. There are, however, many things that put a stop to it, such as the fact that the administrative burden on some companies is made more heavy by human resources and makes it difficult for them to spend important time on what has to do with the company's idea. That is an example. Another is that if you have operations in different municipalities, different permits are required. There may be 42 different permits in one municipality and several others in another municipality. How can we reconcile this better? These are some simplified conditions that we politicians can continue to work on.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer – it was good that I could at least get an answer! There is a reason why the human resources have come into existence. Do you not think, Camilla Brodin, that it is good to know that companies have a staff policy that is fair to all competitors? Isn't it good to know that companies don't have black labour? Don't you think it's a good idea to check things like that? There's a reason you have human resources. I do not understand why people would want to abolish human resources and why they seem to think that they are the very ones who are overturning a company. Camilla himself mentions that you believe in the climate reports and that you are in on what is said in the energy agreement. It speaks of 100% renewable electricity by 2040. That is why my final question is: does Camilla Brodin think that nuclear power is renewable electricity production?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-282	Madam President, I would like With regard to simplified conditions for entrepreneurs and human resources, we have moved in the opposite direction. It's not even digitized, it's a certain type of pen that needs to be used. When you regulate this for companies, we do not think it is okay. However, we must have fair conditions so that companies comply with the law. We don't want to see companies cheat. That's where you have to find good ways to control and follow things up. The energy agreement says about 100% renewable. It also includes nuclear power. We see alarming data day after day about the power shortage and the impact challenge. How can we cope with the electricity supply in Sweden? Look at Gotland! We cannot plan out nuclear power. We absolutely need to ensure that we have renewables, and we need nuclear power, which is also fossil-free. It is through nuclear power that we shall be able to achieve the climate targets.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-285	Madam President, I would like Crime is a threat to our democratic society and must be combated by all means. It is when faith in the future is lost that gangs and violence become an alternative. For me as a social democrat, it is incredibly important to fight crime but also the causes of crime. Sweden is basically a safe country, but we have problems that we must face with vigour. That is why, during the previous parliamentary term, we have tightened up laws to combat terrorism, to crack organised crime and to put an end to men's violence against women. At the same time, we have launched the biggest police effort in 20 years with the target of 10,000 more police employees by 2024. All these are important elements of a conscious job to increase the security of our society, and I, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, am pleased that there is a fairly broad consensus also in the important work ahead. What we do, however, at this moment, Madam President, are deeply divided about is how serious it is at this point, with a transitional government and a transitional budget, to push through another budgetary framework and, in the area by area, to fundamentally change the conditions. A transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It does not address the major societal problems of new reforms. That's not what it's for either. It is available to ensure that important social functions, welfare and authorities function in the same way as before. It is needed to create stability, and it is precisely a transitional budget waiting for a government to take up and present its economic policy. Although Sweden has a transitional government that follows the rules and presents a transitional budget, the Moderates and Christian Democrats voted on Wednesday through their budget motion with the support of the Swedish Democrats. The parties are free to do so. But in my view it is not responsible, and it does not bring Sweden closer to a government solution either. I am convinced that in this situation, where the country is led by a transitional government, we must concentrate our work on getting a strong government that can at least be tolerated by a majority of Members. It is not in Category 4 that the major question marks exist. Here the proposals are very much in line with previous budgets. These are things that are similar to what we have announced ourselves and that will be required in the future to strengthen the whole of the judiciary. It is a policy which, regardless of government, will have to be put on the table in the future. But, Madam President, as we know, society is a whole. That is why it is interesting that even when we work with criminal policy we have to raise our eyes in this situation. The best law enforcement in the long term is to build a society where the social divides are small, where everyone has the right to work, where women and men have equal power and where children and young people have secure conditions for growing up. In this way, welfare policy is an important part of criminal policy. Crime is born of inequality and inequality. That is why it is quite the wrong way to go when putting forward a policy that focuses on major tax cuts. That is not what Sweden now needs, it is not what the voters have asked for and it is not the policy that will make our country safer. It is never possible to combine moderate tax reductions with social-democratic welfare ambitions. That equation is an impossibility. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats mean large tax cuts of approximately SEK 15 billion. Despite the promise that tax cuts will primarily go to low- and middle-income earners, the Moderates' own analysis shows that tax cuts are most important for those who earn the most. The tenth of the society that has the highest income will receive SEK 4 700 more in the account next year, while the tenth that earns the least will have to settle for SEK 200. This, combined with substantial cuts in labour market policies, cuts in housing that will lead to the construction of fewer rental rights and cuts in education, does not create security and cohesion in society, but rather greater exclusion and divides. With the abolition of support for children's and young people's leisure time, less money to work with an equal school, scrapped youth contracts in the fight against youth unemployment and the closure of the Equality Agency, equality and equality do not grow. More exclusion and increased gaps and less equality and gender equality – it is a really bad recipe if you are serious about increasing the security of our society and reducing crime. Then it is not enough to invest in the judicial system. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats represent a completely different policy from the one on which we Social Democrats went to elections and want to pursue. We want to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden where investments in welfare and security take precedence over tax reductions for those who earn the most. We want a society in which we both strengthen the judiciary and fight crime, but also the causes of crime. Since the Parliament decided last Wednesday on other expenditure frameworks than the transitional budget, we Social Democrats choose to present our policy and our point of view in a separate opinion in the report and do not take part in the decisions on appropriations in Category 4 in accordance with the practice that exists here in Parliament.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-301	Madam President, I would like We have now established a framework for expenditure area 4 The judiciary to relate to. Like the previous speaker, we in the Swedish Democrats choose to show our policy by means of a separate opinion, because our policy differs from the established framework on many points. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a serious situation where serious crime has been adamant and where, for four years with a red-green government, the judiciary has not been given sufficient resources, powers or penalties that could reverse developments. The Swedish Democrats were early out proposing more educated police officers. But at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, all parties apart from the Swedish Democrats agreed that we had enough police officers and that the judiciary did not need any special resource reinforcements. This was, in fact, a serious miscalculation by the other parties. That is also the very reason for the situation we are in today. Now, however, the tone has changed. More parties want to invest in the judiciary, and above all in the Police Authority. It welcomes the Swedish Democrats. Nevertheless, there are major differences between the different opposition parties. The Swedish Democrats have budgeted for a total of 4.7 billion more than the government's transitional budget, of which almost 3.3 billion goes to the Swedish Police Authority. Of this amount, we have already allocated SEK 1.5 billion for next year to a targeted wage investment, which can then be compared with the earnings of the Moderates and Christian Democrats of SEK 360 million for the next few years. In this context, it should be said that the red-green parties do not want to see a targeted wage bet at all to Sweden's police officers. We have also chosen to invest in an equipment lift for Swedish policemen, so that they are equipped to face the toughest situations that can arise. To mention something more in our investment in the framework of the Political Authority, we have also chosen to invest in camera surveillance, so that all vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas could be equipped with camera surveillance to counteract crime in different ways. Madam President, I would like It is not enough just to invest in the Police Authority if the judiciary as a whole is to be able to deliver. It is also necessary for other authorities to have a reinforcement of resources that can meet the effects of a reinforcement of resources to the Police Authority. The Prosecution Authority and the Correctional Service are two authorities that have already alerted us about a strained situation. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed for this year a substantial increase in resources, so that prosecutors can handle more expected prosecutions. And the Correctional Service already needs more places of detention and more staff to avoid suffering. The Swedish Democrats have therefore budgeted for an increase of SEK 750 million to the Swedish Prison Service for next year and SEK 160 million to the Swedish Prosecution Authority. It can be said that more opposition parties here too have made an advance in their applications, but one party stands out. The Centre Party has allocated more funds only to the Police Office in respect of all proposals for funding under the judicial system. A single crown has not been allocated more to the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Swedish Economic Crime Agency, the Swedish Criminal Service or the Swedish Crime Victims Agency. A single crown has not been allocated more to any other area of funding. It is not a serious policy not to see the whole and completely leave out the rest of the legal chain. It can also be said in this context that the budget that we have now adopted for the judiciary gives more money to the Police Authority, the Prison Service and the Prosecutor's Office. It also provides the conditions for a targeted salary investment to Sweden's police officers. The reason this budget won was that the Swedish Democrats chose to support it. If the Centre Party or the Liberals had been allowed to decide, the Riksdag would most likely have adopted the red-green transitional budget. They chose to abstain instead of supporting the proposal that gave more money to the judiciary. Although the Swedish Democrats would have liked to see more money for the Police Authority and our other authorities, I am nevertheless proud to have contributed with my voice to our being able to strengthen the judiciary with more resources than was available in the transitional budget. To conclude, I must, of course, thank the Moderates and the Christian Democrats for this, which has finally left the principles of the December Agreement and has actually made the change possible.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-309	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats when they stand in this Chamber a few days after a new budgetary framework from the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats has been adopted. My brief question to Adam Marttinen is: should the House in this way see the Swedish Democrats as part of the government base for a right-wing government? After all, it cannot be the intention for a transitional government, which cannot itself call for extra elections and cannot resign, to administer a right-wing policy.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-311	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for my position in Parliament and in the committee, it is a little beyond my powers to decide government negotiations that have not begun. However, I note that we have acted exactly the same throughout the previous parliamentary term, since we have had an opportunity to influence the policy in a way that strengthens the judiciary through announcements. We have also tried to strengthen the judiciary in every vote on appropriations in the budget. This does not mean that we are automatically part of the government base. If we had been, we would have seen a much greater increase in resources than that which the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have delivered today. One of the most important issues for the Swedish Democrats is to strengthen the judiciary and ensure that the number of police officers increases, so that we get more policemen out in the streets and squares. In order to achieve this, we must also ensure that we increase the attractiveness of the police profession through a targeted wage effort that meets the expectations of the police, in order for the police who have left the profession to be able to return and in order for those who are next to join the profession. So we cannot say that we are part of the government base; I can say that much. But we are definitely in favour of a change in which we move away from the Social Democratic policy which has underbudgeted the judicial authorities each year. I'm not ashamed of that for a moment.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-313	Madam President, I would like I have no further question, but I want to say something. There is, therefore, a party which brings down a current government and which is pursuing a different policy from that which, according to practice, leads to a transitional budget, but this party does not have Members who in this House can answer the question of whether or not you are a government base. I would like to note in the Minutes that it is fascinating that we can stand here now, when two days ago we have contributed to the fact that we have a completely different budgetary framework from the one we have proposed ourselves, and in the area debate we have a completely different policy with much more resources. It's not serious.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-315	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer a possible accusation. The whole thing doesn't make any sense. I believe that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli can understand how one chooses to act in this House in order to get the best currency for his own vote. In this procedure, we have our own draft budget that falls, because our draft budget has been a smaller option than the proposals of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Then, of course, we stand at a crossroads: Should we choose to adopt a transitional budget, which severely restricts the conditions for Swedish police to grow in their costumes and expand their numerary, or should we choose the option of actually doing what we have asked for in all the years we have been in the Swedish Parliament and which we promised our voters to do, namely contributing to a strengthened judiciary? I do not think it is particularly difficult to understand that at this point we are choosing to strengthen the judiciary rather than to do what the Social Democrats want and overturn the judiciary.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-316	Madam President, I would like People should be able to feel safe throughout the country. We should be able to fall asleep without worrying about breaking and entering and letting the children go to school without fear of bullying or other abuse. The state of law must be equal and present to all people in all parts of the country. A well-functioning rule of law is built by ensuring that the fight against crime is conducted in a legally secure manner and that both victims and criminals are treated fairly and with respect for their rights and freedoms. Police have a central role in the functioning of the rule of law in preventing, limiting and solving crime. There is broad political agreement that the police need a substantial increase in resources. Such reinforcement should ensure the local presence of the police throughout the country, provide the opportunity for a substantial increase in police salaries and also create the conditions for better working conditions and a better working environment. Today's trend, where experienced police officers are worryingly leaving their profession and where the places of police training are not being filled, must be reversed. This requires greater effort. While the police must have more resources, these need to be given a different priority. Everyday crimes affecting many, such as theft, card fraud or online harassment, must be taken more seriously. It is crimes like these, such as bus driving, vandalism and shoplifting, which affect many people in everyday life. If society fails to face this crime, it risks creating a sense of insecurity and mistrust of the judiciary. Unfortunately, this type of crime rarely receives much attention from the police. Earlier this week there were reports from the Stockholm Police Department about new guidelines that say that cases less than SEK 5,000 should not normally be handled, at least until New Year. If the police close investigations at the moment the report has been received, it not only sends a strange signal to the criminals that it is free to move forward as long as you do not go beyond the 5,000-krona threshold, but it also detracts from confidence in the rule of law. Adding more resources to the police to deal with more crimes more quickly would also increase the requirements for the remaining legal chain. It is therefore also important that additional resources are invested in strengthening the rest of the legal chain, including the Prosecution Authority. In order for more serious crimes to be solved and more criminals to be convicted, it is also important that the police's work on personal security and witness protection is streamlined and given greater resources. This, too, is an important part of protecting the judicial system, since in many cases witnesses are a prerequisite for conviction. A strong chain of law also includes, of course, investments in penitentiary care. The task of the prison service is not only to impose punishment but also to prevent the recurrence of crime. The treatment programme of the penitentiary is crucial for the prisoner to be able to leave a criminal life. Madam President, I would like Our vulnerable areas are one of our greatest challenges. In some areas, residents feel that criminals are taking over, and often these are young criminals. Insecure is increasing, and stores are closing. Young people's crime must receive immediate, clear and consistent responses from society. Stronger penalties are needed, for example in the case of offences against blue light personnel, but we also need a response that does not drive the child into a criminal adult life. In order to counter the dangerous development of young offenders, we want the legislation to be reviewed so that young people who need to be removed from harmful environments can be taken care of as quickly as possible. There is no doubt that the best way to reduce the negative impact of crime – on crime victims, perpetrators and society – is to work towards fewer crimes being committed. It is therefore important that priority be given to crime prevention, especially in our vulnerable areas. The Center Party wants to make the crime prevention responsibility of municipalities and other public actors clearer, and we also want to increase support for the crime prevention work involving civil society organisations. Together with really early efforts and close contacts between schools, municipalities, parents and civil society, young guys – because it's almost always guys it's all about – can be prevented from drifting into a destructive life where their actions risk hurting both themselves and others around them. Every young man lost to crime is a loss and a failure. Madam President, I would like Some issues in the area of security need special attention. This applies, among other things, to crimes of honour. Not being allowed to decide how to go dressed or not to choose your own friends or who you want to live with is also being subjected to honorary culture. The problem of honour ranges from offensive treatments to forced suicides and murder in the name of honour. Honorable crimes must end. Women in Sweden have been murdered by family members with honorary culture as their motive. Boys feel pressured to control their sisters to preserve an alleged honor, and every year young men, boys, girls, and women are forced into arranged marriages. HBtq people are prevented from being themselves. We believe that there is a need for a proper investment in education in honoral problems in order for those seeking support from society to be able to get the right help, but we also want to see a change in Swedish law that ensures that honorary motives are seen as an aggravating circumstance in the assessment of criminal value. We also want honour crimes to have their own criminal classification, which is modelled on serious violations of peace, but covers acts committed by several different people by common accord. Sexual abuse is and has always been a major problem that we as a society have done too little to solve. We want to see tougher penalties for sexual abuse, but also want to see a new offence – aggravated sexual harassment – targeting situations where groups of offenders attack a person. Violence against women, however, is not only visible in streets and squares; on the contrary, violence is most clearly seen in close relationships. Since November 2017, the National Centre for Women's Peace, which operates the national support telephone for women who, for example, are of fer for violence in a close relationship, has seen a clear increase in the number of calls to the national support telephone. The Center Party wants the efforts on women's and women's shelters and on the Kvinnofridslinjen to increase significantly to help those who are trapped in harmful relationships. Madam President, I would like There is much that needs to be done to increase the security of everyone throughout the country. Whether you live in Vilhelmina, in Stockholm city centre or in one of our vulnerable areas, you should feel safe in streets and squares, on the bus, at work or in school and in your home. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Centre Party is not taking part in the decision on the allocation of budget appropriations because Parliament has already decided on a different financial framework from that which we in the Center Party want. Our view of the allocation of appropriations is set out in our specific opinion.
i-XZBh4WcwcPhxasw1StKY3v	Madam President, I would like A few hours ago, Jonny Cato Hansson and his centre-party colleagues in the Chamber voted against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. A few weeks ago Jonny Cato Hansson voted against Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. At the same time, the Center Party released the budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats on Wednesday. Madam President, I would like I have a very simple question: will Jonny Cato Hansson now let through what Annie Lööf has called a small, conservative right-wing government and let through Ulf Kristersson when he comes up for trial in the Chamber next time?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-333	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party and the Liberals are the only two parties that have opened up to make a transfer of positions on the Prime Minister's question. We have opened up to the opening of cross-block talks and, as Mr Ling knows, these have taken place over the past few weeks. We couldn't get all the way through. For the Center Party it was a big step to start negotiations with the Social Democrats. Now it is time for the other parties to take responsibility in the very difficult government situation in which the country finds itself. How the Center Party will act in the coming weeks, we will have to come back to.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-335	Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the Prime Minister's vote that we had two hours ago, Liberal Party leader Jan Björklund was clear: his first election was a middle collaboration, not to let a small conservative right-wing government or to go towards an extra election. I'm aware there's been a conversation. It is also good that this has been done, although it was, of course, a pity that it did not go anywhere. But what I am concerned about now, Madam President, is that Jonny Cato Hansson answers my very simple question so vaguely. We'll get back to that, he says. The previous clarity that a small conservative and nationalistic government will never be released seems to be no longer valid. Please correct me if I am wrong in your closing speech, Jonny Cato Hansson.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-338	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has been clear throughout the election movement and even after the election with what are our positions. Once again, the Center Party is one of the few parties that have opened up to carry out a movement of positions inside the Chamber. It is necessary to dare to take this situation seriously. The Green Party has even gone out and said that they will not release a government in which they are not themselves, even if it is a Social Democratic-led government. That is what I call closing doors, and we need less of that in this difficult situation. The Center Party is prepared to take responsibility for Sweden to have an active government. That is why, although it has been difficult for us, we have also started talks with the Social Democrats about just a middle government.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-340	I would remind the House that we are now debating the judiciary.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-341	Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants a new leadership for Sweden. But you voted out Löfven, you voted against Kristersson, you voted against a transitional budget that contained almost nothing and you just voted against Löfven again. Excuse me, Center Party, but what leadership are you talking about? You give power to the Swedish Democrats. You are doing what Annie Lööf put her fist on the table in the election campaign and promised that you would not do, namely give the Swedish Democrats power and influence. This is particularly true in the area of justice policy, which I would say is the most dangerous and most undemocratic area of the Swedish democrats. By abstaining, the Center Party has given the SD, the KD and the Moderates the power together. The policy that can now become a reality is a conservative, backward policy without the slightest stifling to liberalism and the freedom of the individual. For example, as KD, M and SD want, it will now be possible to introduce ghetto laws, so that people living in certain areas will receive tougher penalties and people living in other areas will be milder. This is very far from the policy pursued by the Center Party. You're talking about keeping the city and the countryside together. In your speech, Jonny Cato Hansson, you raised the importance of fighting property crimes, and you talked about metoo and sexual harassment. That is great, but what you have voted for is exactly the opposite of these efforts. Why is it so difficult to choose between Lövven's legal policy and Åkesson's ghetto laws?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-346	Madam President, I would like I would first like to make it clear that we fully agree that the policy of the Swedish Democrats, not only in the area of justice but in general, is harmful to Sweden. This is perhaps one of the few things that the Center Party and the Left Party share views on. I would not say that the Center Party is releasing the Swedish Democrats and giving them free access. Then we would not have had the difficult government situation that we have, where we even voted against our own prime minister candidate to exclude the Swedish democrats from influence. In the budget vote, the Center Party has chosen to follow the practice. Although we are in a new area of transitional budget, we have chosen to put forward our own policy, vote in favour of it and then not take part in the remaining votes. That the Swedish democrats have chosen to act in a different way and deviate from practice must, of course, be accountable for – not the Center Party.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-349	Madam President, I would like There's no practice right now, Jonny Cato Hansson. We sit with a budget Sweden has not had before, and we are in a situation where Sweden has never been before. With the line of argument that the Center Party has, I think it becomes clear that you are just standing up and being anti-racists in the electoral movement. Then you punch your fist in the table; that's when you stand up. But then you will be very happy to sit comfortably in your neoliberal chair and say that someone else has to take responsibility. You said, Jonny Cato Hansson, that there is not as much as the Left Party and the Center Party have in common as parties. No, there isn't. The Left Party is anti-racist every day. We make sure to take responsibility for Sweden. We're negotiating the budget with the government. You refuse to do so and you put forward a list of demands that cannot possibly go through. I understand that the Center Party is in a difficult situation, and I regret that.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-353	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that the Center Party is anti-racist every day of the week. The Center Party has not only been clear in the election movement but also after the election how we view the influence of the Swedish Democrats. If it were the case that the Left Party had so much liked to have seen a middle government, it could have facilitated this process by releasing one instead of making a lot of demands that would make it more difficult for the Center Party and the Liberals to agree to a middle government. So the Left Party has not made the process any easier in recent weeks either. It was also clear in this House today that one will not release a government over which one does not have any influence. Then it becomes more difficult for the Center Party and the Liberals, so I think the Left Party also has a great responsibility in this.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-355	Madam President, I would like It's a little woozy in the debate, I guess. I was thinking about what is on the table for the day, which may be more interesting and urgent. In my introduction, I spoke a little about what I think is a shortcoming. I was a little surprised when the Center Party in its speech just talked about the whole – about the justice chain as a whole – and about the need to invest in the Prison Service, the Prosecution Authority and the rest of the legal chain in order for everything to be connected together and to have a good effect. When you look at the figures in the Center Party's draft budget, however, you can see that there is zero kroner more than in the transitional budget, which is also quite scrupulously added from the beginning. I have to ask the question: did I hear wrong when I heard the Center Party talking about spending on the rest of the legal chain, or do I possibly read wrong in the budget in any way? Zero in my world does not mean much effort on the rest of the legal chain, but it means zero and nothing.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-358	Madam President, I would like It has become clear in this House that Sweden is in a difficult parliamentary situation. In this situation, the Center Party has chosen to present a limited budget with much scope for reform. Over the years, the Center Party has been very clear that we believe that a commitment to the whole chain of justice is needed, as I explained in my speech, and that remains. However, in this parliamentary situation, we have chosen to present a more limited budget.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-360	Madam President, I would like You can of course do a little as you like in this situation. However, you can also choose to show your choice from the political side of your party and then do as we have done and adapt to the framework set by the Riksdag – it has certainly now become the framework of the Moderates and Christian Democrats – and then write a special statement explaining what kind of efforts you want to make as a party. That is a little bit what specific opinions are for, and it does not in any way jeopardise a transitional budget or other framework in this context. Rather, it explains the policy of the individual party. There, the Center Party would have had the opportunity to confess color. When the Center Party does so in this situation, the sum will be zero to the Prison Service, the Prosecutor's Office and all other areas of expenditure except the Police Authority. Then, in the name of consistency, you would also have had zero crowns for the Police Authority.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-362	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats do not really share the view on how to deal with the difficult parliamentary situation is quite clear. We thought it was a difficult balance whether or not to present our own budget, but in this situation we chose to do so in order to clarify some of the efforts that we want to make. However, we also felt that it was time to take responsibility, and that is why we have presented a limited budget but which nevertheless makes certain differences clear. At the same time, we have been clear, both in the past and now, that we need to invest in the whole legal chain. As a consequence, we are investing more in the police.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-364	Madam President, I would like A slimmed-down transitional budget is not really much to debate, especially when it has also been voted down by the Conservative bloc. The Left Party supports the transitional budget presented by the government. It is not our budget and not the policy we want, but it is the most reasonable option in a difficult parliamentary situation. The Left Party wants more police and more employees in care for the elderly, we want to build more housing and invest in redeploying the tax system. Tax must be levied on inheritances and wealth in order to be able to invest in vulnerable areas. In budgetary negotiations with the government last parliamentary term, we achieved some ninety reforms for equality and welfare. We want to continue the work of creating a Sweden for all and not just a few. Madam President, I would like There are many challenges in Sweden today. We must spot the angry, violated young men shooting in our residential areas. Not only must we ensure that the police are in vulnerable areas, but it is now time for the rest of society to step in and assume their responsibilities. No one else can be shot by criminal networks that fight for areas, money and drugs and have far too much access to weapons and use unaccompanied refugee children to act as couriers to sell drugs, weapons or their own bodies. We must provide security for everyone, especially for women who are structurally affected by men's violence, who are raped, murdered and sexually harassed every day. Madam President, I would like What is now happening in the budget areas of other committees is the removal of clean crime prevention measures. For example, according to the Conservative bloc, the Public Employment Service is now to be closed down – one of many agencies that ensures that people come from exclusion to inside. Conservatives give 23 times more in their wallets for those with the highest income rather than giving to those who need it the most. Equality is crime prevention. Instead, what we are getting is a society that is torn apart. Those who live in vulnerable areas, where there is a push and where efforts are really needed, get nothing. The possibility of training is being reduced even though entrepreneurs are screaming for trained staff. Tell me, what is more crime prevention than work? What's more crime prevention than housing people can afford to live in? What is more crime prevention than an equal society? The answer is, absolutely nothing. Instead of investing in people living in vulnerable areas, the Christian Democrats invest money on those living in Djursholm and Bymarken. KD introduces an additional RUT grant, so now we will all pay tax deductions through our tax funds to rich people who will be able to get help moving heavy, expensive furniture in their own home. Tell me, how does it help us at home with a Billy bookcase? The Moderates make sure that people who earn over 42,000 a month pay less tax. When a party talking about the police and the increased salaries of the police, 90 percent, it is ridiculous that this tax relief is more appropriate for those of us who are MPs and our fat fees than for the police's crackling wages. I suggest that we, as legislators, lower our fees and instead raise the salaries of police officers, social secretaries and teachers. But with the politics of the Moderates and Christian Democrats it will never happen. For the Conservatives, it is more important to shoe yourself than to help others. M and KD are trying to take power through the back door together with the Swedish Democrats. Dark forces and racists advance their positions through the full power of established conservative parties. The Centre Party and the Liberals are anti-racists in the election movement, but when it comes to it, they release a budget that is governed by the interests of the Swedish Democrats. That's the difference between right and left. That's the difference between being anti-racist and power-full. Madam President, I would like There is no practice against abstaining on a transitional budget. Sweden has never had one of these before. But it is everyone's responsibility not to give dark forces power. That's the responsibility of the Left Party. The transitional budget is not our favorite. It contains a slimmed-down version of almost nothing. But the Left Party takes responsibility in a difficult situation, because it is not possible to rule Sweden on a reservation text. But that is what will happen now. This is what happens when you let the game take over in a difficult parliamentary situation. I refer to the specific opinion. The Left Party does not take part in the decision.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-377	Madam President, I would like One can only be a little moved by the concern of the Left Party. In these Christmas days are delusions such as the existence of Santa Claus and such commonplace, and they have spread into the Chamber, one might say. Liberals have voted in favour of their own economic policy and in the past in the financial framework. That is why we have a specific opinion, and I will explain what it is all about. We Liberals believe that the cost of the rule of law is not something that can be included in formal speeches, but rather that we are making an impression here and marking how much we value it. The rule of law is our protection against barbarism or the power of the strong. There is nothing so important for vulnerable people and no social policy as important as recreating a safe and secure rule of law that helps the people most in need of it. The complicated parliamentary situation has meant that we now have a transitional budget that has been topped up by the Moderates and Christian Democrats for the clearly better. But that, me and the Liberals, is not enough. That is why we in our budget have almost 1 billion more for the police. We are spending more on prosecutors and prisons and half a billion more on the important crime prevention work, because that is what is needed if crime is to be reduced. I will come back to that, Madam President. We are pleased to be able to account for this, because it has meant that in our budget we have chosen not to do certain other things. For example, we have not reduced any diesel taxes, but we have chosen to invest resources in the justice system. It is something of great benefit, and it is so central. We're not talking about the Polar Research Secretariat. Although it is also an important authority, it is not as important as the Police Authority for the survival of society. I am pleased that the Social Democrats here are nodding and have the same insight. We have heard here in the past that reducing crime and increasing security require much more than a strong judicial system. That is something I would also like to emphasise. Of course, you have to work with the broad social policy brushes if you are to reduce crime, as we heard earlier. To the extent that I might ever agree with anything that the Left Party has said, Madam President, it is important, for example, to have a functioning school, with a social policy that ensures that we keep drugs away and that we create meaningful leisure time for people so that they have the opportunity to do sensible things. In mental ice age, crime is created, and that is what we see. Madam President, I would like If you want to talk about results, Sweden in many places has become much better when it comes to crime. Fewer young people end up in crime. In the past, however, a certain number get deeper and deeper into a swamp of crime and become some form of cannon fodder for serious organized crime. Wide brushes are important. But this is not just about social policy. It is important to also work broadly with the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and a variety of authorities. It is particularly important to work within the municipalities with the so-called violence of honour and the culture of honour and the whole complexity that violates people's freedom and commits serious crimes. Municipalities need preventive work for young people. We need a new Social Services Act, which is not on us in the Justice Committee. In the coming years, however, we need to talk about one. We have a law that was created in the 1970s that is used in a completely different world. Today we have a new time in a new Sweden. Other measures are needed to stop social misery and the causes of crime. However, I think that some others may debate this, Madam President. Let us measure the result, which is what you do when you put forward a budget and look at where reinforcements are needed. You wish there was money for everything. What do we see and what is the result of the burning of 3.8 billion more in our draft budget than is stated in the committee's proposal and another good piece than the majority in committee, that is, the Swedish Democrats together with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, do? The national security survey is worrying, if I may put it that way. The number of reported offences can be measured. It's pretty constant. However, it can be said that there is a deep concern that a greater amount of crime is never reported. In an earlier speech, fraud was mentioned. I can tell you that I myself am subjected to at least a couple of fraud attempts a day. However, I usually don't give out my bank codes and things on the phone to other people who call and want them. I hope no one else in here does either. Few should do it. We can also measure solved crimes. We can talk about when the police respond, about court proceedings, about the number of prosecutions leading to prosecution, about the quality of police investigations and about how full it is in prisons. We can also talk about the results of rehabilitation in prison. Support for victims of crime is another matter. In all these areas, things are not going well enough. The development is serious. Large areas in Sweden have the character of the Swedish rule of law having withdrawn and something else has rolled in. This must be broken. I'm afraid otherwise we'll soon get beyond a limit so that it can be repaired. So the situation is serious. As far as the police are concerned, the Liberals' motion – and in part in our special opinion – shows that we want to make further adjustments to the organisation. We also highlight in other contexts that it is important that the police work at the right times. It must be the right number to do the right things. We need cops with the right tools. The list of measures presented by the head of police to the committee and the Ministry of Justice is also an area to which we will have to come back in another context. We must respond to this as soon as we succeed in getting a new government in place. It is our responsibility – we in this House – to ensure, firstly, that there is a government in place and, secondly, that we have a policy that meets this. The police need the right tools. It also needs the right help, as I have said before, Madam President. The cooperation authorities that are taking action against serious crime must be given new directives. They have to work much more on law enforcement. We know that the police are now taking the initiative to seriously meet SKL and the National Board of Health and Welfare, as mentioned earlier. The Social Services Act is too flat, and you miss the target. Because of misplaced goodwill, the efforts that are so important are not made. Madam President, I would like There is more to say about this, but for time winning I do not dig deeper into what has to do with the prosecutors and the courts. The latter, by the way, had until recently plans for redundancies. This would happen at the same time as we know that it is taking more and more time to set targets. Furthermore, the Prison Service needs more resources. It's full of jails, in Sis institutions, in prisons and in our custody. However, the latter is not necessarily the task of the Prison Service. All of this requires that we need to invest a lot more from here. This is part of our special opinion, Madam President. Finally, I am pleased that the House has made a statement that it wants to spend more resources on crime compensation. It is of course very sad in essence that people are subjected to crime and suffer injury. But you have a right to compensation. The Liberals' view, however, is that the levels of damages have been far too low in Sweden for many years. Not infrequently, it feels like a mockery of those who have been subjected to a crime. Madam President, I would like Liberals refrain from taking part in the decision, but I would like to point out our particular opinion.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-400	Madam President, I would like Johan Pehrson has now Killgissa his way through a post in nine minutes. It started with an introduction that the Left Party believes in Santa Claus. Then he goes to the Polar Research Secretariat, and then it rolls on in a harang which, I think, was about the Liberals' legal policy. I have a tip and a question. The tip is: Prepare your posts! The question is: What is the crime prevention work of the Liberals? And what parts of what the Left Party brought up did you think were so great? You shared our views and liked them so much that you had to talk more about the Left Party than about the Liberals. This is very interesting, and I want to hear more about it.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-404	Madam President, I would like The quality of the posts is very varied. I thought that, for the Left Party, it went away a little and was about general economic policy. The view of succession law came into play as part of the legal policy when we were going to talk about the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I felt like I had to mark 'cause it pulled away. There is a strange view of how prosperity is created. Prosperity is apparently to be created through high tax revenues. The best thing one could want from a Santa – which of course does not exist – is that the Left Party at some point realises that prosperity is created by entrepreneurship and hard work by employees in these companies. This creates growth in Sweden, and that is how we get a wealth to distribute. The Left Party cannot sit in this Chamber and distribute money that is not created anywhere. It was on the basis of such a wish I spoke. As far as the content of our preventive work is concerned, I often talk about schools, social services, the content of people's lives and the fight against unemployment. These are perhaps the most important broad things that we need to work on in order to prevent the causes of crime.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-407	Madam President, I would like Of course, you have two different political and economic theories on which to base yourself depending on whether you are a socialist or a liberal. It's not like one's right and one's wrong. After all, we have a capitalist economy that is much more used and more widespread. This is usually what the Liberals refer to. You have a rather naive view that it is only entrepreneurs who create wealth, that there is a kind of nourishing and tiring. Then you and I, Johan Pehrson, are boring. We stand here with high fees and debate day after day. I believe that we must only accept that we have different views on economic policy. What we agree with each other is how important the issues of education, social services and unemployment are in reducing crime. There, I think we should take each other in hand, rather than blame the other for not being able to count or not being able to do economic policy, because that is not true.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-410	Madam President, I would like Given those conciliatory moves, you're a little eager to just stretch out your hand, but it's very difficult. I can do this because Linda Westerlund Snecker is a very nice person, but her analysis is still horrifying. As a liberal, I can love high tax revenues because they give me the resources to do good things, for example investing in more police. But it has absolutely zero to do with high levels of taxation. This delusion must be driven out, preferably out of this house. It would make life easier for all of us. Maybe we should go on a field trip to Venezuela? I'll hit North Korea, too. We have a few more – should we take Cuba at once? Then we take a tour of the Western world and see which economic model has succeeded best in creating the conditions for prosperity and well-being. I wish the Left Party a Merry Christmas with many good books. I'll send some over on occasion.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-413	Madam President, I would like I have had the privilege of following the developments of the Liberals in criminal policy during the previous parliamentary term and to today's date. I have to say that I am quite impressed by the journey that the Liberals have made from the first year of opposition, 2014, to today. Today, the Liberals are one of the opposition parties that spend most money on the judiciary. It is well aware of important proposals for a targeted salary investment for Swedish police officers. There are necessary penalties. In a number of areas, we have rightly been very critical of the Red-Green Government, which has been passively in the gallery in criminal policy for four years. It honors the Liberals. What I wonder about is what role the Liberals will play in the future. Will you create the conditions to push through everything that you think is so important, including wage increases, penalties and resources for the rest of the judiciary, along with those parties that feel the same, or will the Liberals throw all their legal policies overboard in favour of some ministerial seats in a red-green government?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-415	Madam President, I would like It's a little early to say. I think it is very important to be clear this way before Christmas, when we do not know what happens after the Prime Minister's vote we just had. Sweden needs a government that holds and meets the challenges we face. It paints a picture of a pretty tough recession. We see what can happen in Europe and what can happen with regard to our external security. We are also debating challenges with regard to our internal security. We need a stable and sustainable government. Then it can be shaped in different ways. It is no secret, Adam Marttinen, that the Liberals have had talks with the Social Democrats. It is clear that social democrats leaning left or putting their heads in the sand are of no use to us. But I am among those who believe that the Social Democrats have contributed to the development of our country. If they were drawn in the right direction, that would be fantastic. That would be conceivable. But it should also be possible. There are several options. However, as Adam Marttinen may have seen, I am among those who think it might be good to support Ulf Kristersson in a later vote.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-417	Madam President, I would like It is a little bit of this that is perhaps the lack of the Liberals' position on the whole. In criminal policy, I think that the Liberals have had a positive development and a good understanding of the conditions that create a stronger police force and a stronger judicial system. But it is clear that it is worrying if there is a risk that you will refrain from implementing your own policy on the grounds that it may become dependent on the Swedish Democrats, as the debate says. Then your policy will not be worthy of the name. If you refrain from implementing your own policy if support from the Swedish Democrats is required, as I said, you are throwing your politics overboard and putting yourself in the lap of a Social Democracy that will dictate the conditions for how you shape your criminal policy.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-418	Madam President, I would like Few areas are as suitable for focusing on issues such as our area of justice. What leads to better crime prevention? What leads to better law enforcement? What results in increased security? I look at the proposals of all parties and I can say that we see the will, here we see the power, here we see the wishes. I can see that the Swedish Democrats have invested even more than the Liberals. But I can also say that I only take responsibility for us. I rarely look at what others do. However, I listen to others and take it on board. I have explained why we think this area is important. It's out of pure concern. The rule of law is our most important defense. This is about the most important defence of the liberal rule of law. In other states, where it has been cut down, things have gone pretty fast. That is why it is the protection of the liberal rule of law that we are talking about today.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-421	Madam President, I would like Among the best things I know is cycling around or jogging in Malmö. Although sometimes this time of year can be cold, rain horizontally and be windy, it is still amazing. But on the tour you can also get to places where it gets a little harder to breathe, and not just because it's hard exercise. These are places that make you stop, if nothing else in the mind. This is not because it is hilly, but because you see light lit by relatives of people who have been shot to death there. This can also happen for a very long time afterwards, for of course the pain never ends in the relatives of the victims. This week a man was shot to death outside a preschool. It shouldn't be like that. It can't be like this. Every time someone is shot to death, whether in Malmö, Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg or elsewhere in the country, someone is losing their son, brother or childhood friend. During the last term of office, the Red-Green Government put a great deal of effort into combating crime and crime. Punishment was tightened, for example in the area of weapons offences and sexual violence. The police were given more resources, which has been needed. The police have also been given more tools. The police need to continue to be strengthened, but that too will not be enough. We have to do more things. Madam President, I would like Organised economic crime must be combated at all levels. The cross-government work against organised crime is crucial. It must continue and intensify. The police have pointed out measures that other authorities need to take to participate in this work. Everyone has to be there to help. It is, of course, essentially about preventive and preventive measures, about how we build society and what conditions we provide. School is, of course, crucial. It has also been telling from time to time when police chiefs have expressed the importance of political efforts at the school for it to work and for everyone who grows up to get the chance that education is the basis for. But there must also be safety nets later in life. Social safety nets are one thing, but such a thing as komvux cannot be overestimated as tools to allow more chances for people. When we talk about justice policy, we also need to talk about the importance of, and the decision-making of, the defectors' activities. Anyone who wants to leave crime must also be helped to do so. The life that the criminal has had is far from being simple. Getting out of it requires a job you need to be able to get help with. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say a few words about the very special situation we find ourselves in. Last Wednesday the budget of the Moderates and the KD, the reservation or what has been called the napkin sketch was voted through. The fact that we have a new budget before we have a new government is an understatement purely constitutional. It is regrettable that we have not been able to resolve this situation without the back door having a budget that will be very difficult to manage with. Only here earlier in the morning was discovered in the Culture Committee that it is clear that there was no way to change the free entrance of state museums that had been planned to bring in 80 million in the full year. It took a little more time, so it was only 60 million. There's 20 million missing. This will reduce the investment in biliotek that would take place in vulnerable areas. That is something that is directly crucial for the area we are now talking about. There should be activities and alternatives for people growing up in those areas. It became like this because of carelessness or something else from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Of course, we choose not to take part in the decision in this area. In fact, the differences are smaller than in many other areas. There is a common desire to strengthen the police and the whole chain of justice. Of course, we would have liked to see another budget presented that had built Sweden stronger. That is why we will not be taking part in the decision.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-431	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in a position where we have not got a new government. I think that everyone in this House can agree if it is problematic. But it is not problematic mainly for political parties or Members of Parliament. It is above all a question of Sweden having a new government in place. We come from a situation where we have had a government that has raised taxes by 60 billion and, at the same time, managed to betray the most basic social contract. That is why a new criminal policy is something that is really needed. We are in a situation where we have a transitional government. But we have no transitory crime. We don't have any transitional gangs in our vulnerable areas. We don't have a transitory police crisis that's almost gone. We have a major problem that a new government with the support of many parties in this House needs to deal with. We have 200 criminal gangs, 5,000 life-style criticals and 61 vulnerable areas. In a number of these areas, I dare say that we have also lost control at certain times. We're seeing death shootings that are continuing right now. If we look at the shootings among young men, there are ten times as many shootings in Sweden as in Germany. We see international theft leagues that tour Sweden and now account for a majority of all burglaries. Fraud is increasing avalanche. Recently we were told that the police in Stockholm now completely stop investigating entire categories of fraud. We have a police density that is currently the lowest in ten years. I assume that all parties in the Committee on Justice have been contacted by judges, courts, prosecutors and the Prison Service. Everyone points to the need for increased resources now. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs have discussed something very serious. This is about the increase in sexual offences. Right now, there's a lot going on. It is not just a connection to the fact that we have had an important discussion about meetoo. It seems that we are now experiencing a very sharp increase. It's crimes that are very serious. It is something that can scar people's lives, especially young women. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have decided that something must be done. Now is not the time to sit and wait, but now is the time to start acting. It is perfectly reasonable for political parties in this House to put forward the political proposals that we have promised our voters and then stand up for them all the way. I am surprised that more parties have not chosen to do so. For us, the draft budget is basically about the fact that we now want to strengthen the whole legal system. It's about going from talking about that it should be invested in the police to actually doing it. When it comes to the police, we are now putting forward initiatives that mean an increase of half a billion for 2019. It increases up to 1.1 billion by 2020 and 2.3 billion by 2021. It is, of course, a question of bringing in resources so that we can really move towards 10 000 more police workers. This would give the Police Authority a little better opportunity to work with camera surveillance in vulnerable areas and obtain better resources for equipment. We also choose now to take the first step towards something that is completely new. It's a targeted salary bet for the Swedish police. We have said that the salary should increase by about SEK 3 000 a month. We are now taking the first step with this budget. We choose to invest more in the District Attorney's Office. If we are to be able to destroy gang crime, to get better investigations in order to prosecute more rapists, we must also ensure that the Prosecution Authority can hire and not have a job freeze. This is something that is real. That is why it is so vitally important that the House is prepared to take decisions that allow the Prosecutor's Office to get an additional 75 million. We choose to bet on the courts. It is incredibly important for us to have a rule of law worthy of the name in order to defend liberal democracy. I hear here that it is handed out a lot of reviews. Conservatives seem to be a new fashion word, I have noted. For me it is a question of really standing up for liberal democracy. The fact that there have been savings on the courts is something you should really be ashamed of. We are now presenting an additional 130 million. This means that we can now ensure that we get judgments more quickly if it is the case that we are guilty. We can ensure that we get more sentences that come much closer to when the crime has been committed. We're going to have to invest more in Correctional Services. All in all, this will amount to an additional 166 million for 2019. I also believe that we will have reason to come back if we are to succeed in both having good rehabilitation and being able to turn many people so that they stop committing crimes and living a criminal life. We're going to have to do some punitive work. Today we have too weak penalties linked to people who commit very many of the crimes in Sweden and especially when it comes to gang crime. Then, Madam President, I have to say that I am extremely pleased that the committee is now in agreement with an announcement to double the compensation for violations. Damages to crime victims have not been adjusted for over 30 years in Sweden. This means that we are now finally bringing in a perspective that has been lacking in Swedish criminal policy for far too long, namely the victim's. We'll take the victim's perspective instead of the offender's. All in all, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal. We in the Moderates and Christian Democrats see this as the first step during this term to be able to make Sweden safer.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-449	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are storming into the arms of the Swedish Democrats under any conditions. You are using a difficult parliamentary situation to serve a racist party the opportunity to gain power and influence, Tomas Tobé. It is clear that the Moderates have been preparing this for a long time. During the last parliamentary term, you made over 100 announcements in the Committee on Justice together with, among others, the Swedish Democrats. I had expected more than that from a party that considers itself to be government-supporting. But that is the case when a party removes a prime minister but has no plan whatsoever for who will rule instead of how the power can be taken. In your speech, Tomas Tobé, you mentioned the punitive measures that the Moderates want to impose. Among other things, you want to remove the quantity discount and penalty discount, double the penalties for some people, have life for murder and remove the parole. In already overcrowded prisons, for which the Correctional Service has warned, this will lead to chaos. There is no height for this policy in your budget. I can tell you what you should have budgeted for the Correctional Service: SEK 945 million more per year. Your punitive measures cost 945 million more a year, and it is before all the prisons and detention centres needed to carry out the penalties have begun to be built. My question is, how do you count in the Moderates?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Linda Westerlund Snecker! I'll get back to it. The Moderates are storming into the arms of the Swedish Democrats and I think it's a rather interesting perspective. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are presenting a proposal, and it is correct that the Swedish Democrats have chosen to support it. In what way has the proposal been changed by the Swedish Democrats having voted in favour of it? The truth, Madam President, is that it has not changed at all, because it is the proposal of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. In the same way, it is when it comes to announcements that are made in the Committee on Justice. It has even happened, Madam President, that I and Linda Westerlund Snecker have been in complete agreement. We have even made joint announcements during our term of office. I haven't felt the least more communist about it. I haven't felt that I find it problematic. I have rather thought this: how good that we can agree on this. If there is a majority in favour of politics, it should apply. I think that the vast majority of parties in this House should take a look. What if we stood up for our own policy in this House? What if we stopped being paralysed by the fact that there is an eighth party in the Swedish parliament and instead began to focus on solving social problems? With regard to the cost of punitive measures, it is correct: these are things that, of course, can lead to increased costs. We have presented a large number of punitive measures that will need to be investigated to some extent. There too, we will have to increase in future budgets for increased costs when it comes to penalties.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-458	Madam President, I would like Of course you can stand up for your politics, and the Left Party does. But we do not stand up for our politics along with racists. That's the difference between what the Moderates do. I met with the suburbs against violence and mothers who have had their children shot out in the suburbs on Wednesday. They are the ones most seriously affected by the vulnerable situation in the suburbs. But what they want is no longer punishment, but a well-functioning school, housing and drug treatment. But instead, the Mothers are going to pump in tax revenue to build prisons and lock people up. A person in an institution costs 1 million a year. There are an incredible number of teachers, social secretaries and police officers that we can hire for these millions, instead of locking people up. It is your policy, Tomas Tobé, that will ensure that we cannot hire the people needed in the suburbs.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-461	Madam President, I would like Linda Westerlund Snecker says that the Left Party stands up for its politics, until the Swedish Democrats might think the same. Then you no longer stand up for your politics, Linda Westerlund Snecker. It's an interesting perspective, which you have to reflect on. That's right – I think most mothers and, for that matter, fathers also want a good school, good recreation centres and a strong social work. But what the mothers – because it's usually mothers – that I've met in the vulnerable areas want is a present police officer and help to get rid of the criminal gangs that drag their twelve- and thirteen-year-olds into starting to sell drugs. Mothers have no problem whatsoever with many of these individuals being locked up anymore. I think we will have to do a lot more if we are to manage to reverse the development of the affected areas, and there is the encapsulation of a number of dangerous people a crucial part. But there, the Moderates and the Left Party think very different.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-464	Madam President, I would like It is no exaggeration to claim that Sweden is in a difficult parliamentary situation. It is more than three months since the elections, and we still have no government. The transitional government has presented a transitional budget, pure from new political reforms. However, the lack of new policy proposals in a budget does not mean that it is apolitical. The transitional budget is full of the red-green policy of the last four years. At the same time, it lacks what we are going to discuss and has discussed here today: substantial and directly necessary efforts on the judiciary. In Sweden, all public power is based on the people, and the Riksdag is its main representative, not the government. We don't have a transitional holiday. The voters cast their vote on each of our parties because they want us to make our policy a reality. The Christian Democrats will take that chance at all times. Madam President, I would like The other day, a man was executed outside a pre-school in Malmö in the morning, at the drop-off time. In the last month there have been reports of shootings in Veddesta, Helsingborg, Uppsala, Hisingen, Malmö, Eskilstuna and Örebro. So far this year there have been 274 shootings in Sweden, and 42 people have been killed. It is ten times more common in Sweden than in Germany for young men to be killed, as Tomas Tobé said in his speech. Innocent people suffer far too often. Let me give you a few examples, Madam President. It's about the exchange student who was going to eat his first pizza in Sweden and was shot at the pizzeria, the 63-year-old man who died when he picked up a hand grenade in Vårby farm, the 16-year-old who just started high school in Malmö and who lost his life at a bus stop and about the eight-year-old – the eight-year-old – who fell victim to a hand grenade when he greeted Swedish relatives. These are victims who have never had a hand in the criminal settlements that are responsible for the increase in deadly violence that we see. Madam President, I would like In serious criminal and extremist environments, there are over 15 000 active individuals. The problem these individuals pose is enormous, and it affects society as a whole. Violence kills. The drugs are breaking down. Hospital staff are not allowed to work at peace, but are threatened with violence. The welfare systems are being exploited. Whole neighborhoods are being held hostage, and people there don't dare testify. In some places it is not possible to run businesses without dealing with the power of criminals. Women's freedom is pruned. The freedom of expression and demonstration is under threat. Parliament has the opportunity to act. The Christian Democrats take that chance in every situation. The struggle that needs to be taken against the criminals cannot wait. We believe that the left-wing government did too little, but the problems have accumulated for decades. It will take a long time to reverse developments. That is why the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have decided to act immediately now that the chance exists in the Swedish parliament. With our budget, the police will get 11⁄2 billion more next year. This means that the road to 10,000 more police employees is funded. At the same time, we are carrying out a strong wage investment that will lead to an average salary increase of SEK 3 000 for police officers. They deserve that, and they need that, given the important role they play in ensuring the security of our country. Our wage investment will help more people to apply for police training, and we also hope that it will lead to the return to the profession of many of those who have chosen to stop working as police officers. Police officers are the prerequisite for and engine of preventive work. Without a locally based police force in the local community, companies will not pop up or social efforts will be as effective – mothers and fathers who want to be out on night hikes will not feel safe – and other civil society efforts do not stand a chance against the grossly organised criminals who put whole areas in fear. That is why police are the key to effective preventive work. When the police are strengthened, it is important that the rest of the judiciary is also strengthened. That's why we're spending SEK 75 million on the Prosecution Authority. The number of cases will increase with our efforts. The authority itself has warned that it can become a bottleneck without the right resources and also points out that competence can disappear – probably it has already done so because there has been a stop at the Prosecution Office. This must be prevented if we are to combat crime. We increase the funding to the courts by SEK 130 million. Over the last two years, cases in migration, criminal and family cases have increased. That increase will continue. Serious crime is a threat to the security of our courts and security must be strengthened. Modern IT solutions can make the work more efficient, and the Christian Democrats also want to see more courts opened in the country. When the police's ability is strengthened and punitive measures are implemented, along with more resources for prosecutors and courts, the pressure on the Prison Service will also increase. The situation, as we have heard in the debate here earlier today, is already severely strained. We are making a strong investment in Correctional Care next year with SEK 251 million. As Tomas Tobé was in his line shift with Linda Westerlund Snecker, we are also taking heights because this will need to be further expanded in the coming years. In addition to these efforts, we are strengthening customs. We are not doing this in the area of expenditure that we are debating today, but it is worth mentioning in this context, because weapons and drugs should not be freely smuggled into the country and stolen goods cannot be freely smuggled out of the country. Customs must be given increased powers to arrest suspects. Madam President, I would like The victim perspective needs to be strengthened in the Swedish judicial system. The Christian Democrats have been pushing this issue for a long time. We are taking a major step in this direction with the efforts of the Moderates and Christian Democrats to double the violation compensation from 2020. In a difficult parliamentary situation, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have taken responsibility together. We have ensured that the police, the courts, the prosecutors and the correctional services receive substantial additional resources. The alternative would be to do nothing, but it has not been an option for the Christian Democrats. We have promised the voters at all times to take the chance to influence and get our policies through. When we see problems and have suggestions for solutions to them, we do everything we can to implement those solutions – to put an end to the shootings, push back crime and increase security throughout Sweden. That is why I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-478	Madam President, I would like It's been a year since Metoo broke out. It became clear how much women's systematic exposure to men's violence is. There is currently a great deal of work going on around the Swedish Government to inform about, among other things, consent laws and various political decisions taken to avoid and counteract sexual harassment. The Gender Equality Agency is currently working on a project on travel courage to stop Swedish men from buying sex from women and children abroad. There is competence development at courts, lawyers and social security secretaries. At last, there is systematic attention to work that will strengthen women and children who have been vulnerable. The problem is that the Christian Democrats will stop this work with this budget. You want to close down the Equality Agency, which has been in existence for a year and is doing an amazing job of counteracting exactly what must not happen again. Andreas Carlson said in his speech that the victim perspective is very important, and I can only agree. But it is precisely these robust political reforms that also ensure that there are no more victims. We must start to prevent this. We must ensure that patriarchal structures no longer expose women. We know that this is extremely widespread. Why, then, do the Christian Democrats choose to stamp out all the good in the form of political reforms that Metoo has brought?
i-d681f63a74a2146f-481	Madam President, I would like Linda Westerlund Snecker gives the impression that we would stomp everything good that has happened in the tracks of metoo. We do not think that what has been expressed by Metoo is good, but it is positive that it has come to the surface – that it has been debated and led to more complaints – but we do not stomp it in any way by dismantling the authority that was heavily criticised when it was introduced and that in the merger of various initiatives that were also made destroyed much of functioning activities that had been running for several years and meant a lot, not least for vulnerable women. These are the elements that we want to strengthen, but we also see a very great need to provide resources to the Police Authority. We are debating Category 4. We have heard and know that rape reports today are being piled up because of a lack of resources within the police. Now that we have the chance to really take a strong stance against the abuses and harassment that have taken place, we can ensure that the investigations of the Police Authority are speeded up by greatly strengthening the police's resources. Linda Westerlund Snecker has not made any such proposals on the part of the Left Party. We have heard the reasons why efforts are not being made at the Police Office, but I would like to remind the whole House of what the Commissioner for the National Police has said, namely that there is a lack of resources and that there is a great need for resources in order to achieve the ambitions that we share. We are not happy just to wait and see when we get a government. We're acting now. But we do not think that the most important measure to tackle all the structures that have been highlighted as totally reprehensible in the Metoo movement is about the Equality Authority, but it is bigger than that. We want to make sure that the activities that worked very well but that were decommissioned, moved or broken down when the Gender Equality Agency was developed can come back and continue. There are several years of working work there that can give even more impetus to the work that I think we agree that even more is needed.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-484	Madam President, I would like It's so typical. In a debate on justice, in which only men and I have participated, I am talking about the vulnerability of women and the structural harassment that men inflict on women – there has been a feminist roar that says it is enough now; we do not accept this anymore. Then the Christian Democrats will start talking about the police. It's too late when the police get involved. Then the crime has already been committed. It doesn't work to think that we stop women's vulnerability by hiring more cops. More police are needed – yes. But then it's already too late. It is preventive work that needs to be done. We need to overcome destructive male roles that create rapists. But the Christian Democrats have not grasped that feminism and equality stop vulnerability. The police don't. The police work when the crime has already been committed.
i-d681f63a74a2146f-487	Madam President, I would like We can have a general political debate as well. I do not think it is problematic to highlight various proposals in different policy areas. But we have a process in Parliament– Linda Westerlund Snecker knows – which means that we are debating the area of expenditure for the area of expenditure. It is therefore not entirely unnatural that the debate on the judicial system focuses on the judicial authorities and the additional resources that we are making there. I can highlight many initiatives that we in the Christian Democrats make in our motions and in our budget. We're investing in civil society. I think we need more role models, both male and female. We believe in a family policy that involves learning early in life to take responsibility and to treat other people with respect and dignity – no matter what gender they have. That is the basis for fighting back the abuses and totally reprehensible behaviours that exist. It's about starting early and having positive role models already in the family. Therefore, the Christian Democrats are investing in family policy and civil society, to face this and lay the foundations for a good society.
