i-ac00059349199ef8-0	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me what I am going to do to create a human health insurance system in which the sick are given financial security. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, the challenge was clear. Sick leave had risen sharply since 2010, and forecasts pointed upwards. More were taken sick, and more were taken sick for a longer time. The work capacity of sick leavers was assessed in decline and support for return to work was weak. On such a complex problem as sickness absence, there is not a simple solution; there are many measures that need to be taken at the same time. A broad action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave was therefore presented in autumn 2015 and has been further developed in the budget proposals for both 2017 and 2018. Since it took office, the government has improved the financial security of health insurance. We have increased the possibilities for rehabilitation, and we have strengthened the work environment so that fewer people get sick from their job. But more needs to be done. I note that the rise in sick leave has been broken. At the same time, I note that the action programme needs to be further developed in order to achieve the goal of healthier workplaces and a long-term low and stable absence of sick leave. If you fall ill in Sweden, you should be able to rely on safe insurance and quickly support back to good health and work. You'll understand what's happening and how to get back. This is not the case for everyone today, and it is unacceptable. That is why we are making changes for a safe and well-functioning health insurance. The government has therefore presented eleven measures for a safe and well-functioning health insurance centred on people. Let me mention in particular some of the measures that the government is now taking. Many times it is difficult for both the insured and the sick doctor and the environment to understand what is expected of the insured person and what rules and exceptions apply. All in all, this risks leading to a difficult understanding of the decision of Försäkringskassan, which ultimately risks the legitimacy of health insurance. The regulatory framework of health insurance should be in line with changes in society and people's needs. We get signals that sometimes it does not, which we take very seriously. The Government will therefore set up an investigation to analyse the application of the concept of normal work and review what should be a specific reason for the Social Insurance Agency to postpone the assessment of the ability to work against normal work. The authorities should cooperate so that the individual is given good support for health and work. No one should fall between the chairs because of lack of cooperation. The Government has therefore commissioned Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen – a zero tolerance mission – to ensure that the transition between the authorities works. The Government has also commissioned Försäkringskassan, within the framework of its statutory coordination responsibilities, to strengthen the work of providing support to the individual. The key to good rehabilitation lies in good cooperation and communication between employers, healthcare and Försäkringskassan. Here, Försäkringskassan has a great responsibility that needs to be changed up. The Social Insurance Agency is therefore given a mandate to be more present in contact with both individuals and other actors such as employers, health care and the Employment Service. In addition, the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan and the National Board of Health and Welfare to improve cooperation and dialogue between Försäkringskassan and the health care sector regarding the process of sick leave and medical certificates. The mission shall contribute to a constructive dialogue between the medical profession and the Social Insurance Agency and a consensus on how to ensure an effective sick leave process. It is a joint responsibility of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Health Care Agency that there are well-functioning forms of cooperation and constructive dialogue. When dialogue fails, it is ultimately the individual who gets caught. In addition to the measures I have mentioned here, the government will take further steps to increase support for the individual and strengthen cooperation between the authorities. The broad work that we do is basically about you not having to get sick from your work, but if you do, you will get both financial security and good support back to health and work.
i-ac00059349199ef8-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Strandhäll, for your answer. Yesterday I was in Gävle. I sat at the house of a woman named Ullmark Ullmark drinking coffee in her kitchen. Iza is a child nurse and enjoys her work very much, but today she is ill. She's been sick for quite some time. She has had bad luck, one has to say – two serious traffic accidents and then on it a burnout that it takes very long to get back from. We sat there and talked about how it feels when one moment you are healthy and go to work and the next moment you feel I need to get help with this; this society has to help me too. She thought that society's help would be there when she needed it most, but she's learned that it's not that every step – every piece of paper, every approval from the Social Insurance Agency – she has to fight. She needs help. She has to fight to be on sick leave and get sick leave so she can get well. She has experienced that her doctor has signed a certificate stating that she cannot work and then fail the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and lose her remuneration. Now she fears that she will simply be insured and not receive any compensation at all. She is a single parent and has a child to support. These are the people it is about, and they are many around Sweden. There are thousands of people who feel that they are being beaten in a figurative sense by Försäkringskassan – that they do not get any security and that they are expected to work while they are ill, although they cannot work and perhaps even though their doctor tells them that Anyone who is burned out and goes back to work too early can go back into the wall, and maybe it takes even longer to come back. This is a sign that something is wrong. Many with me had expected a Social Democratic-led government to have a more human health insurance. In fairness, I will say that some positive things have happened, sometimes in cooperation with the Left Party on the budget. We've increased compensation. We removed the stupefying stock that Swedish democrats and bourgeois want to reintroduce. Good! I also think that many of the investigations you wish to carry out are very welcome. It is good and necessary to do those investigations, so nothing bad said about it. But it feels like Annika Strandhäll walks like the cat around hot porridge. What, then, is the hot porridge in the middle? Yeah, that's the saving bet. It is the fact that the government in its instruction to the Social Insurance Agency says that there is a target of 9.0 sick days on average. When the Försäkringskassan receives such clear instructions, it goes straight down to the local offices and to the administrators, who get a mandate for fewer people to receive sickness benefit. It'll be a tougher assessment. That is when people sit in their kitchens and wonder: What will happen to me now that I do not receive any sickness benefit? That is the big problem. This does not concern Annika Strandhäll in her answer, but I think it is actually the main question. If this is changed, I think we will have a more humane assessment in many cases. I fully share the goal– it is clear that we want people to be healthy. They should have a good working environment and rehabilitation, and the cooperation between employers and insurance funds should be good. But when this is not the case, this objective risks leading to people who are actually ill and deserve the support of society not receiving it. Then I mean that we do not have the welfare that we have promised people. So I'm wondering, when are you going to remove the conditioning in 9.0 days?
i-ac00059349199ef8-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for an extremely important interpellation! When I hear stories like the one about Iza Ullmark, which you are now sharing, or for that matter about any other of it, enough people that I have met over the past year, who feel that they do not get the support they had expected when they get sick, it makes me furious. I myself have a background as a trade union representative for almost 20 years. I have at local, regional and central level in the union represented sick people and assisted them in very difficult situations in life, for example in 2003, when we in Sweden had the highest sickness rates in the world. Many of those who got sick were women in welfare, who, as a result of tough cuts in the 1990s, ended up in a situation where they got sick. It was also when the concept of fatigue depression came. They said that they burned themselves out or went into the wall; it actually didn't even have a diagnosis. During my life, I have spent a lot of time with just such errands. That is why it is incredibly important to me that, now that we are making changes in health insurance, we are doing it for real and not just going into the insurance, as many governments have done, to plug or drop the flow of sick leave. As I said in my reply– I have really tried to describe to Jonas Sjöstedt how I think– I saw, when I stepped in in autumn 2014, how we again had an alarming increase in the number of cases of illness. Every other sick leave is a woman, and there is an enormous dominance of women from the welfare sector in these figures. The majority of people are on sick leave because of stress, anxiety and depression, and it is the women in care who top the sickness statistics. We still have an elderly care in Sweden that produces twice as many sick people as the rest of the labour market. The government therefore presented a broad initiative in autumn 2015 to get a regulation on the social and organizational work environment, to provide money for more health and safety inspectors, to review women's work environment and to provide resources to the health care system for rehabilitation, CBT and other things to support these people. It was also about improving the quality of the processing; that is what the task of Försäkringskassan has been given. Sometimes I get so tired. Over these three years, we have taken 50 initiatives to improve before, during and after a case of illness, perhaps especially in terms of prevention. It is about stopping focusing on a precipice or a more distant deadline and instead seeing what we can do to support people. That is also why, Jonas Sjöstedt, the government has initiated the eleven-point programme: to try to take a broader approach and use the whole government's toolbox. After all, it is not a secret – you and I both know – that there is no majority in this House to make any legislative changes to health insurance, except to reintroduce the pre-stock and introduce another withdrawal day. Therefore, we have chosen to commission the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to set up a national coordinator, to take a longer-term approach to certain investigative tasks and to permanent rehabilitation coordinators in, for example, health care. But I am prepared to do more, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-ac00059349199ef8-36	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Annika Strandhäll! I have no illusion whatsoever that anything would be better for the sick if we had a bourgeois government or if you were to rule with bourgeois parties, as you say you want to do after the elections. What do the bourgeois want? They want to introduce the precipice again, together with the Swedish Democrats. They're competing to cut back on health insurance. It would deteriorate dramatically if bourgeois parties came into government. I just want to make this clear. However, I still have greater expectations of the government we have now. Many people have been in trouble for a long time because of the shortcomings in health insurance. These higher expectations are not so much about what you are talking about, because I think that pretty much everything is good – from the budget investments to the investments in rehabilitation and the working environment. This is absolutely necessary. This is where you can ensure that people get healthier and that the staff density increases in the social contact professions. But then there was this hot porridge that might be somewhere on the floor between us. You've set an artificial target in 9.0 days. If you write this to an authority, it tries to reach that goal. In the end, the pressure on the administrators ends up on the Social Insurance Agency. The newspaper ETC made an interesting and distressing report, where administrators were interviewed. Many of them chose to remain anonymous; they did not want to speak of their name. They talk about how the hardest administrators in the local office are picked out to try cases, so that there will be more rejections. They tell about how the whole culture is focused on reaching the rejection goal, so that you can survive these days. It is not primarily about how many are actually healthy and perhaps come back to work. They testify to the fact that in this office it even gives pay to reject more. I get cold when I hear this. This cannot work on an authority that is designed to help people to leave disease and get back to work. But it is actually this that will be the effect if you print out this clear objective in the regulation letter. It is not that we are voting on the regulatory letter in this House. Moderates and Swedish democrats cannot decide that there will be harder times for the sick, which they want to do, but it is in fact you in the government who write this letter. You do not have to negotiate it with the Left Party in connection with the budget, and you do not have to vote on it in Parliament. You're the one writing it. Today, many seem to agree. When you ask your former comrades in the trade union movement what the problem is, they point to many things, including the target of 9.0 days. If this is not the answer, and I choose to interpret it as not quite justifiable – that it is known that this must be achieved by people getting healthier and not by sick people, like Iza and others, losing the sickness allowance they so badly need. What Iza also said to me, and that burned down a little bit, was: I just get sicker and get harder to get together and get back to work when I always feel stress for my personal finances and feel that they are not with me but against me when I try to get the support I thought existed from the community. I would therefore like to return to my question: when will you remove these artificial 9.0 days and thus the pressure to reject people in health insurance?
i-ac00059349199ef8-46	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt! I will certainly answer your question now that I have a little more speaking time. At the same time, of course, it is incredibly important for me to put this issue in a context so that we do not stand here and talk about the government's policy for healthier workplaces and for fewer people to have to get sick and more people to get support being about a target of 9.0 days or a saving requirement. Because that's not true. I am extremely upset when I hear such stories as the one in the ETC, to which you referred. This is not something that the government has in any way sanctioned. We, Jonas Sjöstedt, are very clear about both Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen in terms of working together to support and help people back to health. Only last Thursday we decided at the government meeting on a government mission to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency: to strengthen coordination around individuals who are ill and need rehabilitation, support and help. We also made decisions that make it unacceptable for health care and the Social Insurance Agency to send out certificates between them, which result in the individual being squeezed. In addition, we have taken a zero tolerance decision that we have included in the regulatory letters. We tell both Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan that not a single person can get caught in the way we have seen in recent years. We – and I – are very clear about our ambition: People should not have to get sick from their jobs. If you do, you're supposed to get support and help, and we're going to have an insurance policy that provides security. This signal is crystal clear from me to Försäkringskassan. I find it extremely unfortunate that with 9.0 this is a shadow over all the 50 initiatives I have taken during my term of office. If I'm being honest, I think this is totally scratching the wrong powers on my back. I can ask you, Jonas: What is 9.0 about when it comes to the number of sick people in Sweden during a year? This is a social goal, not an individual goal. I read as recently as the other day how a researcher in the field describes this as an individual goal; but it is not an individual goal. We have also clarified this in the regulations to Försäkringskassan. This is about a goal of a low and stable sick absence in Sweden over time. That's what we're after. As a land, we have separated ourselves by having high mountains and deep valleys. Activities such as care for the elderly have been able to hide in the statistics for a very long time and have gotten away with it. This is not a saving bet. If you are going to relate 9.0 to something you can compare with where the absence was in 2013, i.e. before the sharp increases we have seen. That is what we are talking about. We can also compare with what sickness absence in Sweden was in 2007. So this is not a strange number, and it is no fiction that a country like Sweden could have an average sick absence in the nation that lies on that number. This is a goal that is intended not only for the Social Insurance Agency but also for employers when it comes to preventive work or health care when it comes to providing support. It can also be for work environment work to ensure that we have a work environment that does not generate illness. 9.0 is not the solution to the problem we are talking about here today, Jonas Sjöstedt, but the measures put forward by the government. This is what I stand for. It would have been easier for me to draw a line there and do nothing more, but it would not have solved the problem.
i-ac00059349199ef8-57	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the richest countries in the world. We have 184 billionaires in the country, and they are rapidly becoming richer and more rapidly. We have a historical budget surplus because, in cooperation between the government and the Left Party, we have taken good responsibility for the economy. In this country, we can afford to give sick people sickness benefit. We can afford to treat people in a human and dignified way. We can afford not to let them worry about their future and that of their family with the extra concern of economic uncertainty. How do you interpret the 9, 0? I believe that this is what hinders success. This prevents people from seeing and feeling that there is a human health insurance that works. And then much of what the government is now doing and wants to do, which is still full of good intentions, falls flat to the ground if, at the same time, there is pressure on the authority to reject when people are actually sick. This is the problem, and then you can't get around it. One cannot get around the fact that there is a contradiction between the positive work being done and the saving requirement, which in practice is being dealt with, which exists at Försäkringskassan and which is all the way down to the level of the administrator. People who work with this themselves testify that this is what is expected of them. We can afford human health insurance. But we cannot afford a labour movement that does not stand up for the welfare of the bourgeoisie. And I am concerned about the elections when the government does not see how thousands of people get so badly off this policy and how this makes it difficult for them to get well and come back. Of course, we should aim for people to be healthy, but that cannot be achieved by sick people not receiving sickness benefit. That is the case today.
i-ac00059349199ef8-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for an important interpellation! Just as you say, it is: In Sweden we can afford to give people who really need it the sickness allowance they should have in order to feel safe. It is this health insurance I want, and it is this health insurance that we are working to achieve. I am fully aware of the problems raised by Jonas Sjöstedt during this interpellation debate. That is why we took further action as late as last week with clarifications as to what health insurance we want to see. We will work for this to become a reality as well. People should be able to feel safe in health insurance. It'll have to cost what it takes. But those people who have a work capacity and want to and can come back to work again or to health, which is the most important thing, should also have the support they deserve. There the authorities and health services have a role to play. We also have this as employers in municipalities and county councils when it comes to what conditions we give the people who work there, so that they do not get sick from their job. I will continue to fight to ensure that we have health insurance that is safe and that supports and helps people back again. I am fully prepared to take the necessary steps. On 1 July, new legislation will be in place. It will provide additional support for initiatives in the rehabilitation work. At the turn of the year, another piece of legislation came in place that we started working on last year. It is about the Social Insurance Agency not withdrawing sickness benefit retroactively. I am prepared to take more steps to make people feel safe in health insurance. And I'm not happy until we've achieved it.
i-ac00059349199ef8-67	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me four questions about profit bans and freedom of choice in healthcare. The first question is whether the treatment will be subject to a profit ban and when that ban will be imposed. The second question is whether I believe that the right to choose healthcare providers according to the freedom of choice system that exists in Sweden benefits the quality development of all healthcare in Sweden and what measures I take to ensure quality development even if a profit ban is imposed. The third question by the interpeller is whether I believe that the possibility of choosing an employer in health care will be reduced if a profit ban is imposed and what measures I will take to secure that possibility. Finally, the interpeller asks the question of what measures I am taking to ensure that the debate on the profit ban does not already lead to fewer opportunities for people to choose the healthcare provider they want. I would like to start by pointing out that the objective of health care is good health and equal treatment for the whole population. Care should be provided with respect for the equal value of all human beings and for the dignity of the individual. Profit as an incentive can counteract the intentions of the Health Act. However, the Government does not intend to impose a profit ban on health care, nor on the rest of the welfare sector. Earlier in January, the Government decided on two legislative referrals, with proposals on, among other things, ownership and management review in parts of the welfare sector – Increased permit requirements in social services and the school system was decided on 11 January – and on limitation of operating profit and requirements for separate legal entities – Authorisation to receive public funding in social services, assistance compensation and school law-regulated activities was decided on 18 January. In both cases, the proposals take their starting point in the Welfare Investigation (SOU 2016:78). The aim of the proposals is to prevent rogue actors from operating in the welfare sector. In the latter legislative referral, the Government proposes to introduce a permit to receive public funds in social services, assistance payments and school law-regulated activities. The proposal aims to ensure that the tax revenue that finances welfare benefits children, pupils and users. The proposal limits the operating profit of private operators to a market remuneration for the capital invested by the owners in the business. However, this is not the same as a profit ban. In the above-mentioned legislative referrals on increased permit requirements and on authorisation to receive public funding, proposals concerning the health sector are not present. The Government has chosen to allow the issue of the effective use of tax resources in the health sector to form the basis for a separate investigation. In December 2017, the Government decided to set up the investigation Order and clear up the care (Dir. 2017:128). The investigation will complement the investigations already carried out and ongoing investigations in this area. The investigation includes, among other things, investigating the needs and prerequisites for, and the pros and cons of introducing certain permit trials or alternatives to such trials in the area of healthcare. As regards Lars Beckman's question about freedom of choice, the government has no plans to change the extent to which patients can choose healthcare providers. As far as the third and fourth questions of the interpellier are concerned, as mentioned earlier, the government does not intend to propose a profit ban either in health care or in other areas of welfare. The government has made it clear that it continues to want individual actors to be able to operate in welfare. Those who carry out serious welfare activities and regularly reinvest in the business will continue to be able to operate with high quality. A diversity of actors in welfare can contribute to increased innovation and development. Of course, employees in private welfare companies are doing just as important work as employees in the public sector. The fact that a larger proportion of tax revenue is used, for example, to increase staff density and to improve the wages of employees in welfare rather than being distributed to owners is positive both for employees and for the quality of welfare.
i-ac00059349199ef8-76	Madam President, I would like Let us begin this debate by giving a warm thought to and showing admiration for Ingvar Kamprad! It was a fantastic entrepreneur, who started with two empty hands, built up a world group and created many, many jobs not only in Sweden but also around the world. Today, everyone admires Ingvar Kamprad, except perhaps the Left Party Youth League and the Left Party. I have even seen ministers and ministers who have gone out and said: We are proud of Ingvar Kamprad. But, Madam President, Ingvar Kamprad was cut off from Sweden. In the 70's, the economic policy of the Social Democrats was at its worst with everything they introduced. These were wealth taxes, inheritance taxes, high marginal taxes and then wage and salary funds. This allowed many Swedish entrepreneurs to simply leave Sweden. The most successful owner families had to leave Sweden. I wrote this interpellation when I read about the fantastic entrepreneur Christina Wahlström, who has built up the private maternity care company Mama Mia. The article is available on the Swedish Enterprise website. The headline is Mama Mia, what a troublemaker! Madam President, I would like I think everyone should read about her story, how she fought against the monopoly, how she fought against poor values and how she fought against rhetoric that did not favour entrepreneurship. In 1992 the then bourgeois government in Stockholm introduced a maternity allowance. Then came the great lift for Mama Mia. Then it was also free for mothers to go to private maternity care centers. Before that, the rich could afford it. It was the rich who had freedom of choice. Then came the unique Swedish model, the model that we all politicians should be proud of. It is the model that means that I, regardless of my income and wherever I live, have the opportunity to have freedom of choice. You can choose a health centre and maternity care centre without having to think about your income, because this is publicly funded. Madam President, I would like The political debate that I would like to have is, of course, about how we improve health care and how we improve welfare. I listened with great interest to the previous debate between the Government and Jonas Sjöstedt. I listened carefully to how to reduce sickness rates. What the Government could have said then was of course: We will outsource more activities. We're going to have more small-scale operations in the welfare sector. That is where the lowest sickness rates are. That's where the most satisfied customers are, and that's where it's the lowest staff turnover. This is what becomes so difficult when government policy is not connected. They say they want to reduce sickness and improve welfare. But with the practical policy being pursued, it is a hot hunt for the successful entrepreneurs that exist in this sector and that we customers have chosen. I think it would be better if the Council of State openly, honestly and honestly said: We do not want diversity in welfare. We don't want entrepreneurs in welfare. We want to try to scare them away from this industry as far as possible. But that's not what the government says. Instead, we want to introduce a ban on profit, which I will return to in my next speech.
i-ac00059349199ef8-85	Madam President, I would like Yes, profit in a company is necessary for the company to grow, expand and provide security for owners and employees – without profit, no welfare. The more successful companies we have in our country, the better the whole country will do. Although profits are not always the main objective of companies, profits are necessary for companies to survive and for entrepreneurs to be able in the long run to ensure the welfare that we need and want. When a business makes a profit, a positive spiral in society begins. If one company is doing well, others are doing well. Success is contagious. Government finances are improving because companies pay taxes on their profits and because employees in companies pay taxes on their wages. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to develop not only health care, as in this case, but also society as a whole. But I want to come back to health care, because we are having this debate with the Minister for Health. In my county of Dalarna we have Sweden's longest care queues. We also have the least number of private carers. In the country, about 35 percent of all of us go to a private health centre or to a private health care provider in primary care. In Dalarna County Council, where there are approximately 275 000 inhabitants, we have three or possibly four private care providers. In our neighbouring country, Västmanland, 40 per cent of primary care providers are private. You don't have as long lines there. Of course, I have one thought: Is this connected? We have few private performers. Is that why we also have the long care queues? It would be interesting to hear the objections of the Government or perhaps explanations as to why this is the case. Why must it be the case that healthcare is in this way in a county council where the supply is not the same? Our neighbouring country has a much better offer, and there it also looks much better in the health care sector. I will stay there, Madam President, hoping for a good response from the Government.
i-ac00059349199ef8-92	Madam President, I would like When I visit my doctor– I think most of us visit the doctor sometime or several times in life – I don't care who his head is. What I attach great importance to – and hopefully many of them do with me – is that I get quick feedback, receive appropriate treatment and be treated with respect. Therefore, it is undeniably felt that the government's rhetoric in recent times regarding profit bans in welfare scares a great many people. The fear that it will not stay there, but that it will also affect our freedom of choice as to which doctor and school we will be able to choose future infectious diseases. I represent Jönköping County. There, like the whole of Sweden, we are sorry right now because one of the country's largest entrepreneurs and business builders, Ingvar Kamprad, has recently passed away. He leaves behind a historically successful act, not only for the company but also for Sweden. This is an example that we must call for more of. I was present at the previous debate with the left-wing leader, and from his tone I felt that he was annoyed when he referred to the 184 billionaires. Apparently, it was a number that disturbed him. However, it does not disturb me – Sweden needs more billionaires and more successful companies in all sectors. My questions to the Government are: Is the Government's and the Government's ambition and policy to implement the Left Party's policy? Are you so pressured by the Left Party and Jonas Sjöstedt that you must continue the systematic pursuit of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in welfare? If so, has the Government made any analysis of what this means for freedom of choice and for people's well-being?
i-ac00059349199ef8-97	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Although it is now being said that only school is in progress, there are still suggestions for an investigation to be carried out. In view of what we are experiencing now, one can only imagine what is to come, and that is why I was going to stick to the question. I was going to tell you the story of Christina Wahlström, who, like many other female entrepreneurs, started operations in the public sector, with midwifery. She herself is a midwife at the bottom and wanted to run the business for families in a different way, but you didn't look with gentle eyes at her business when it started. I call this innovations in everyday life – things that are quite obvious but that do not exist or existed at that time. This maternity clinic started in 1988 in Stockholm, and those who originally went there were the ones who could and wanted to pay for themselves. There were no agreements at the time, nor could there be any agreement with the county councils to do this as a business of their own. Families at that time had to pay $5,000 out of their own pocket, which meant that they could not accept everyone but only some. Christina, who started the business, had worked in the county council in Stockholm for ten years, and she had an idea to put the family, that is, the woman, the mother, in focus instead of focusing on the system and the business. So her idea of the world's best maternal care was not something unattainable, but it was about two things today quite obvious. One was to have opening hours when families were free, i.e. you would not have to leave work to go to maternity care. The second was that the visits would meet the same midwife all the way, which is a debate that is still going on here in the country. There were several midwives who struggled with their registered mothers, but it was a tough time when the business was not seen with gentle eyes. Finally, the others gave up, and Christina, who had debts to pay but who is a tough person, hung on and fought. Just as Lars Beckman told us, it was possible in 1992 to deliver midwifery clinics for county councils in Sweden, and it didn't cost anyone anything, but everyone could go there on the same premise. When I learned that in modern times this reception had been opposed by people who thought it was terrible that women could go there after working hours, that is, in the evenings, I could only be amazed. I didn't think it was true. For me, this feels like the era of Miss Friman's war show. It's hard to believe it's really happening. The same is true now that the left-wing government continues to prevent women from operating in the public sphere, where they invest their own money and build up activities for the benefit of others, where citizens have a choice. One can also imagine that these activities that run a good idea that is appreciated by citizens should be allowed to continue to develop their ideas and be able to start in new places. However, this is thwarted by the government, which demands that you have a maximum of SEK 45 000 over. This is how if you're going to run a health center, a midwife's clinic or something else in this country, you need an airbag. You therefore need to have money left over in the last row, and that is what the county councils are demanding. A health center had 500,000 kroner left in the account, but that was not enough, because you have to have a buffer if something happens. But that is not what the government is talking about at all.
i-ac00059349199ef8-109	Madam President, I would like There is nothing to get moderate Members of Parliament to get so involved in an interpellation debate in this House as when they are allowed to pull a lance for the unlimited right of welfare companies to extract profits from our welfare and enrich themselves on our common tax money. To come back to the example of Ingvar Kamprad, which is an entrepreneur of which we are of course all very proud and who has also helped to put Sweden on the map, one must nevertheless note that we also manage this heritage in Sweden. In measurements of the business climate, Sweden is among the world's best countries. In measurements of innovation capacity, Sweden is one of the world's leading countries. We are also one of the world's leading countries when it comes to start-ups. It is therefore very gratifying that we are managing Ingvar Kamprad's legacy. What we were going to talk about here today, however, was a possible profit ban in healthcare, and then I will come back to that. It is not the case that the government intends to impose a profit ban on health care, nor on the rest of the welfare sector. On the other hand, there is overwhelming support among Swedes for us politicians in this House to ensure that tax funds go to what they are intended for, that is, to a better school, better care and better care for the elderly so that our parents can feel safe. There is an unlimited amount of support in the measurement, I would almost say unlimited, among Swedish citizens. Even in the Moderates' own electoral groups, there is surprisingly strong support to ensure that the possibility of picking unlimited profits from Swedish welfare is limited. I must also say that it is amazing that this discussion is so black and white. We must be able to see what works more and less well with regard to the reforms that we have carried out over the last 30 years in Swedish welfare with the introduction of the increased freedom of choice, a changed school, a changed health care and a changed care. We can say that the school does not work very well. We see that the results are falling and that segregation is increasing in the Swedish school. It undermines equivalence and our chances of taking care of every kid so that they can become successful, innovative young people who want to start businesses in the future. They should not come from just one class in society, but actually from the whole society. Then there was health care, accessibility and care queues. Just what is being raised here is the very reason why we need to ensure that tax funds go to the right things. When we ask voters what they think about the Swedish healthcare system and what they think needs to happen, they say that the Swedish healthcare system needs more resources and that the situation for the staff needs to be improved. Investment is needed there in the future. The government intends to invest. The government's investigation into health care aims to ensure that resources go to exactly the right things.
i-ac00059349199ef8-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your clarity! There is nothing socialists are so passionate about as removing freedom of choice for ordinary citizens. I am proud of the Swedish model, Madam President. I am proud that Sweden can have real freedom of choice regardless of income. I am proud that it is not the richest rich who have the right to choose school in Gävle but that everyone has the right to do so. I am proud that in Gävle and Gävleborg you can choose a health centre regardless of your income. Quite rightly, the Government has understood that we Moderates are passionate about freedom of choice. We Moderates stand on the side of the little man against the system. The debate we have today is therefore not new, but we recognise that debate from the employee fund debate in the 1970s and what drove Ingvar Kamprad and all other owner families out of Sweden. If, instead, we had had a serious debate today, what if the government had spent as much time and effort on improving health care as on combating freedom of choice, then perhaps we would even have had lower sickness rates in the public sector? The target set by the government on sick leave has already been achieved in private companies. The political conclusion cannot be that we should sabotage those companies that work best. That cannot be a reasonable political conclusion. What if we had stood here and debated the losses in the public sector? That's the social problem. In Gävleborg County, public health centres make losses after loss. With the same compensation to the private health centres in Gävleborg County, they do not make big profits but after all a small profit. Then perhaps the Government would spend its time and effort even picking up the phone and calling, as another minister did, to the most successful companies and asking them how it is that they do not make hundreds of millions of losses, how it is that they do not hire relay doctors who cost 50 000 SEK a week per week and how it is that they have so satisfied patients. One of the health centres in my county is so popular that I don't know how many people have listed themselves there. It has become a problem that so many people want to list themselves there. When you visit the private health centres, the doctors who work there tell you why they have left Region Gävleborg, and they tell you how they have gained influence over their working day. They tell us how they don't have the politicians. These are amazing stories. What, then, is the government's desire to fight? Well, it's the businesses that work best. These are the ones the government has been led to fight, not to spend time, energy, focus and rhetoric on improving what can be better. This government will leave the Government Office. Then we will see what new government will be after the Prime Minister's vote this autumn. I hope that whoever gets Strandhäll's job in the future will focus on improving what can be better and not fighting what is good.
i-ac00059349199ef8-128	Madam President, I would like Of course, there is a difference between whether it is an alliance-led government or a socialist government. It's a shame it's so black and white. In fact, there are things you can learn from each other. The report "Vårdval med förhörd" shows that the county council-run primary care in three out of four county councils goes with deficit. This is done in those county councils where there is no freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is extremely important. In the report, Lars Stjernkvist, party colleague of the Government, has stated that freedom of choice and diversity are needed on equal terms. If a county council-run primary care centre – health centre or health centre – goes with loss, the county council goes in and compensates. But if I run a privately owned health center, it goes bankrupt. It is a little strange that the public, what we pay taxes to, go in and cover instead of looking at what the private health centre does that is so good and what can be learned from it. What is the business like, and how can it profit? It has to because otherwise it would not exist. Learn from the good examples, and ensure that county councils and private health care can work together on equal terms.
i-ac00059349199ef8-131	Madam President, I would like There is no such thing as unlimited profit, the Government – despite my background as an economist. There are profits in the private sector but, strangely enough, surpluses in the state-funded activities. For your part, profit is the price to stay alive in your industry. For us, freedom of choice is the crown of democracy. That's what we're going to fight for. It is frightening when the government, through the Government, is conducting a debate on questions after ordering from the Left Party, but then we moderates become even more stubborn in our position. We're gonna fight for freedom of choice. When you visit your doctor, you want to receive a dignified treatment and a proper and rapid treatment. In many places in Sweden this does not happen right now. Instead, I agree with the concerns and calls of my colleagues to the Government and the Government, namely to learn from what the best activities have to offer. Don't fight them. Respect people's right to choose.
i-ac00059349199ef8-134	Madam President, I would like Better school, health care and care! Normally we say in politics that we should take back those who are good at things. We will look at the good examples, and we will even export them to make money from them. There are good activities in Sweden to take advantage of. The government is now saying that it is the right way to close these operations. Letting businesses have a maximum of 45 000 left in the account is like a family having to make it out of 10 kroner a month, when it is over, to take an example of the same magnitude. What we should all be doing is content, which we have discussed a great many times – a high-quality content, which comes from learning from the best activities. I would like to repeat what I said earlier: anyone who looks at this debate in the future will see what the government is doing now, as we all get to know. They will see the reflection from the past, from Miss Friman's war. Then it was about women not having business. It is now a matter of women not operating in the public sector – care, school and health care. These are activities that they are incredibly good at and where they have for many years delivered services in the public but seen that there are opportunities to do it better, with citizens in focus. The airbag's supposed to be there, Prime Minister. If it does not exist, the businesses can close down, and it would be appropriate to actually talk about it.
i-ac00059349199ef8-139	Madam President, I would like I signed up for the debate because I listened to it remotely and was struck by moderate rhetoric. There's no such thing. There is a rhetoric in which it is claimed that health centres will be closed and that the government has put forward such proposals. It is said a lot of things, and you mix Ingvar Kamprad and a variety of things that the interpellation wasn't about – all to try to say things that the government hasn't done. That is why I also wanted to interfere in this debate. I know that, as the Government said, we have a very good entrepreneurship in Sweden and that we should be proud of it. I also know that the proposal made last week did not affect health centres. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson stood here and said: Now it will be closed medical centers. However, there is no such thing in the proposal tabled last week. I think it is quite tragic that there are Members of this House who are trying to suggest such things when they are not true. The proposal that came last week, which was not presented by the Minister who is here but by Ardalan Shekarabi and which we will be discussing in the Finance Committee eventually, once it has come from the Law Council, is about the school, which Annika Strandhäll has clearly talked about. We are many taxpayers who do not think that we should spend taxpayers' money on anything other than what they are meant for, namely learning, teaching and quality. As long as you continue to invest in your business, whether it is caring or schooling, you will have to continue with it. It is tragic that Members are trying to suggest something else here. In the case of health centres, it should be investigated. I am absolutely sure that you take on board all the good experiences that exist, that you weigh in the pros and cons and that you look at how you can do, what you can take with you for the future and so on. There is no such proposal in the case of health centres. With regard to the current proposal, which does not concern health centres but which, for example, concerns a little less housing like Solhem and so on, I am pleased that we have ensured that there is a buffer that can be used to invest in staff. It is true that last autumn there were many smaller companies that contacted us and said that they were worried because they had heard about the gigantic campaign that was going on from the Moderates and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. They thought they were going to have to close down now and that they are not allowed to invest in their staff. We have now made it clear in the proposal that we can have a buffer in order to invest in staff. As long as you invest in quality and invest back in your business – you might want to train your staff or invest in higher staffing – you can continue and use the money in your business. It is a pity when Moderates resort to the big hammer, but it is a good thing that voters think something completely different. The voters think that taxpayers' money should be used for health care, care and school here in Sweden, not for some big companies that stick with the money and stop the profits in their pockets. It is good that it appears that the Moderates are turning for them, not for the caretakers.
i-ac00059349199ef8-148	Madam President, I would like Madam Minister! Once upon a time – 20 to 30 years ago – we discussed employee funds. It was not a drama: a small part of the profits would be allocated each year to the employees and unions. There was nothing more to it, but the debate eventually became very clear. This would lead to a socialisation of Swedish industry in the 10-15 years to come. Then the Social Democracy let go of this question; it is dead and buried. Now – supported by the Left Party – the same social democracy, quite reluctantly, I would say, because it still remembers the employee fund debate, is proposing to introduce a limitation of profits in the public sector. As well as then, it is now claimed that there is nothing to argue about. You can have 7% in profit. Who can want more? That's double bank interest. It's nothing bad. That is the message, and it is sold into the same beautiful clothes as the employee funds were sold once, but it is actually as close to a lie as you can get. Even in Agenda i SVT it was said as a fact that the profit limit is 7%. The Prime Minister spoke in SVT's morning studio a little while ago, and he concluded that the investigation proposed 7 percent plus government loan interest. On the question of whether this will lead to the failure of operations, he replied: No, most are not even at levels around 7%. That is true, but – and that is why I went into the debate – what does the proposal for a limitation of profits now being put forward mean? It is not about 7% of the profits of a company, it is about 7% of the profits of operating capital, which is a small part of the company and which excludes people and so on. This is not about staff salaries and training. The assets of these companies are usually staff. The proposal, translated into traditional profit, is not about 7% or about 9-10%, as the Prime Minister mentioned, but about 0-2%. This, if implemented, would directly force a significant part of the companies to close down or go bankrupt. Who would be interested in having money invested in that business, with small margins and risk, if a profit cap is set at 0 – 2 percent in practice? Explain to me and us here that it is not just 0 – 2 percent! Explain to me that's 7% on the win! People in Sweden know what 7% of profit is: it is 7%. It is not about this. If you had made a 7% profit proposal, we would have been able to discuss it. It might have been bad enough, but it would have been one thing. It is a very radical proposal. Just as you presented the employee funds, there is now a proposal which sounds harmless and good but which is fatal. I just wanted to highlight this to the President, the Government and the listeners.
i-ac00059349199ef8-156	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised by the proportions adopted by this interpellation debate. As I said, there is nothing that makes moderate members of parliament as committed as the welfare companies' ability to pick out unlimited profits from the Swedish welfare companies, because this is what we are talking about here. The freedom of choice is here to stay. The government has made this clear. Serious companies will definitely remain in Swedish welfare. But rogue companies that are in welfare, not to run as good a welfare business as possible, but to make big profits, actually have nothing to do there. For this there is very strong support in the Swedish population. I can also say that not very much in this interpellation debate has really been about the questions raised in the interpellation. I answered these questions immediately, namely that the government has made it clear that it wants individual actors to be able to operate in welfare but that we have a responsibility. This is also the view of the Swedish people in a situation where the population is growing, we are getting older and we have more children, namely to ensure that the resources that taxpayers inject into Swedish welfare go to what they are intended for – children, the elderly and sick people – and not to profits. This is no strange thing in any way. But, as I said, freedom of choice is here to stay. I will also like to say something about the quite startling attacks that are taking place here in various individual county councils. Of course, this issue is not black or white either. We have fantastic county politicians of different party affiliations throughout Sweden who are struggling to ensure that they deliver as good a welfare and health care as possible to the citizens. I'm very proud of that. I've met them in the fall. If we look at this, we can see that the care queues have increased during these years and that one county council accounts for 32% of this increase – the others are far below 10% – and it is the Västra Götaland region that is governed by the bourgeois parties. The second part of this that I must also highlight is that people may not be as convinced as moderate representatives in this interpellation debate that everything works very well in the county councils where we have a very large freedom of choice. Let me just mention the closure of BB Sophia. Let me also mention New Karolinska – SEK 6 000 for a pair of socks and SEK 1.2 million of taxpayers' money to change a door. I think it was yesterday that the prosecutor went out and said that it will now start a preliminary investigation into the people who have died in the operational queues during the summer. What I am trying to say both now and in my previous speech is that these are not black or white questions. The same applies when we are faced with situations where schools go bankrupt and pupils are left without a place of school and education and when the municipalities have to take full responsibility. As politicians, we have a responsibility to do something about this. Given the demographic developments in Sweden with an increasing population, we need to ensure that every penny of tax goes to what it is intended for. This debate will, of course, continue all the way into the electoral movement.
i-ac00059349199ef8-166	Madam President, I would like We can talk about BB in Sollefteå. I have read Svenska Dagbladet's articles on how the Social Democrats handle healthcare in Västernorrland. Staffan Danielsson made a very wise point, and I noted that the Government did not answer his questions. I have full respect for the fact that Monica Green neither reads in the media nor interpellations before she participates in a debate. But it is clear from the interpellation that freedom of choice in Sweden has been impaired only because of the poor rhetoric that the government has against the private welfare entrepreneurs. On 7 December, there was a big article in a morning newspaper about Mama Mia not daring to expand and invest because of the terrible rhetoric that resembles the 1970s employee fund debate. So it's worse. Freedom of choice is worse in Sweden, and so it has deteriorated only because of the debate that is taking place. I find that very sad. What if the government had instead put its time and effort into debating what is the social problem, namely the losses in the public sector? How is it that with SEK 100 there and SEK 100 there, the private entrepreneur, the entrepreneur, can make a small profit, while the public sector makes large losses year after year? Imagine if we had had a government that had celebrated Christina Wahlström and Mama Mia and had highlighted all the fantastic entrepreneurs who have created real freedom of choice in Sweden. What if we had praised Christina Wahlström as much as we do other entrepreneurs? The list can be made long, from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south, over all the amazing people who create real freedom of choice. We will come back to this in the debate.
i-ac00059349199ef8-172	Madam President, I would like That taxpayers' money should be used for what they are intended for, the taxpayers themselves think. True, the Moderates do not think so because they think they should go for profits. Even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise thinks that they should go to profits. They even think it doesn't work without profit. If so, how have cooperatives, foundations and others been able to operate? Sweden is doing just fine. We have a very good choice, and we shall continue to have it. Then it is claimed in the debate that health centres should be closed, even though it is not included in the proposal. It continues to be investigated how best to do so. It is claimed that companies are being shut down because of the debate. I would say that it is because of the rhetoric of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Moderates. They are the ones who have gone country and country around and tried to suggest that there will now be such a ban. That is what has made businesses worried. Companies are wondering if this is going to happen. I have met entrepreneurs in Skaraborg who asked if this is true. No, it's not. Then we looked at the claims they had received from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. But this is bluff and bow. The entrepreneurs then wondered who to trust. Many entrepreneurs trust the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. But in fact it is a propaganda apparatus. The Moderates also show here whose way they are going. We shall ensure that we continue to have freedom of choice in healthcare, that we have the best care, that people get the help they need and that taxpayers' money goes to what they are intended for, because the Swedish people think so.
i-ac00059349199ef8-178	Madam President, I would like I based my speech mainly on figures from Johan Ingerö, who is an economist and expert at the Industry Thought Tank and a serious debater. He also quotes Joachim Landström, an expert in the profit investigation, who believes that a reasonable return with the Reepalu method – if one should have it – would be 48%. But Reepalu thinks it should be 7%. My question is still in the air. How much are welfare companies allowed to keep if they manage to deliver 7% in profit with the way in which companies calculate their profits according to all the tax rules of art? Can they keep 7%, Minister of Social Affairs? That's my question. Or, through Reepalus's technical trixing, do they in practice retain only 0 – 2 percent, which I claim to be the truth and the reality? It's a devastatingly low level. You are putting forward this proposal, supported by Jonas Sjöstedt, with lessons learned from countries with systems that no longer exist. It's amazing. The state itself is an entrepreneur. We have very nice government companies – Vattenfall, Telia and so on. What is the demand for returns for the government that Annika Strandhäll sits in on these enterprises? Is it 0 – 2 percent? Is that 7%? That's not enough. That's 8 – 10 percent and more. You are calling for this from state companies, while you are happy to put forward proposals for a de facto ban on profits in the public sector so that you can keep 0 – 2 %. Feel free to convince me that I'm wrong, Minister of Social Affairs. But I'm afraid I haven't. The Left Party has won on this issue.
i-ac00059349199ef8-182	Madam President, I would like I set up an investigation before Christmas that I am responsible for and that will see how we get the order and order in the care. I'm happy to talk about that investigation. It will, among other things, look at how we can reduce the proportion of relay doctors and relay nurses who drain health care activities on resources. Just as Monica Green says, it is incredibly important not to scare up Sweden's welfare entrepreneurs unnecessarily. Before I became a minister, I was the trade union chairman of the trade union that organizes employees who work in both public and private welfare, and I am very familiar with the quality of private welfare activities. I also know that it is not easy to say what is best or what is worst. If we look at sick leave, for example, we can see that they are slightly fewer in the private welfare businesses – not very much, but they still differ by being slightly fewer. It is likely that this may be due to the organisation of activities in the form of smaller workplaces, closer to their immediate manager, etc. Much can be learned from each other, and that is where this discussion should lie: how do we achieve good quality in these activities? How do we ensure that resources go to what they are intended for and not to large profits? Nor must we forget that in Sweden we are unique in the world by allowing profit withdrawals from the Swedish school in this way. In several countries of Europe, there are right-wing parties that cannot imagine anything like this. As I said, this debate will continue, and it is welcome. We have the people on our side.
i-ac00059349199ef8-186	Madam President, I would like Margareta Larsson has asked me if there is a political will to curb the high drug use in Sweden in favour of other directions that can be offered to the care provider. I would like to begin by saying that mental illness is a major and growing social problem. The proportion of people who experience and report problems due to mental illness has increased since the early 1990s, and we have seen an increased prescription of drugs to counteract depression, anxiety and anxiety. It is also known that the prescription of adhd medicines for both children and adults has increased in recent years. Mental ill health is a priority area for the government. The Government allocated over SEK 1 billion in 2017 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health and makes the assessment that there is a great need to further expand this initiative. The Government is therefore strengthening the investment in mental health by SEK 500 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work by SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. In 2017, SEK 100 million was added for this year to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry for children and young people. This investment will take place in 2018 – 2020. Given that many asylum seekers and new arrivals are children, the Government also allocates SEK 50 million per year from 2018 to improve access to healthcare to combat mental illness among children and young people in the group of asylum seekers and new arrivals. Most of the investment in the area of mental health is allocated to municipalities and county councils through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. The state's preparation for medical and social evaluation, SBU, has recently submitted a survey of knowledge gaps in the field of mental illness. One of the aims of the survey is to provide the government with a basis for assessing the need for possible further research in the field of mental illness. The report is currently being prepared in the Government Office. When it comes to adhd and treatment of adhd, a number of efforts are made. Among other things, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare developed a decision support with recommendations on the treatment of adhd in children and adults. The purpose of the recommendations is to contribute to the provision of pharmaceutical treatment of adhd based on the best available knowledge and in an equal way. In addition, in a report from 2017, the National Board of Health and Welfare conducted analyses of the development of the prescription of adhd drugs. In the report, the National Board of Health and Welfare notes that the prescription of adhd drugs can mean both upper and lower end of the medicinal product. It is therefore important to continue to analyse the prescription of adhd medicines, and I intend to closely monitor developments in this area. Finally, I note that effective care, both in first-line activities and in the more specialised psychiatry, is essential for people with mental illness to receive the efforts and care they need. In some cases this medicine includes, and in others it does not. However, it is important to bear in mind that for people with adhd, the drug can have a decisive impact on the quality of life in combination with various psychosocial and educational support measures. The choice of intervention is a medical assessment and not a political one. On the other hand, increasing access to psychiatric care and improving prevention against mental illness is a priority for the government.
i-ac00059349199ef8-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am, of course, pleased that mental illness is a priority for the Government and the Government. I do not question the good will, and I listen with interest to the financial efforts reported by the Government. But what has been the effect of all the efforts made over the years? Obviously, they have not acted as instruments. The monitoring by the National Board of Health and Welfare has not been able to give a summary of the results, and the county councils' reporting has failed – and will probably continue to do so. All in all, we still know nothing about all these effects and what has become of them. What, then, is saying that billions more will have an effect? Is money a magical phenomenon? I can't believe it, because the more money the psychiatrist gets, the sicker people seem to get... and the more it costs the public purse. Then the act has also proved ineffective. Madam President, I would like For my part, I think that we should perhaps stop this coercive behaviour and change our approach. If Swedish psychiatry now receives so much trust, it should at some point be able to fend for itself. In any case, it should be possible to show results that show that people are getting healthier. In any case, it is not the role of the state to provide tax funds for psychiatry, but the funding is according to law in the county councils and municipalities. Taking over financial responsibility more and more will reduce the responsibility of others. It is quite natural that this should happen. Madam President, I would like Current policies do not prove to have any economic success. That has been shown in previous years. That's why we might need some new visions. We might need more long-term measures within the remit of the state, and here the state could go in with financial support for research and education – but preferably without the intervention of the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmaceutical industry has no original interest in patients' health; the pharmaceutical industry wants to make money. It is quite important to keep this separate. The pharmaceutical industry in Sweden earned almost half a billion only on the adhd drugs in 2016. Adhd is a diagnosis based solely on an experience-based symptom list with cross questions. There is no medical evidence that the diagnosis of adhd exists, but as a result of the ever-extended diagnostic criteria, sick leave with psychological reasons has reached record numbers in the last four years. Worse it will also be now that the National Board of Health and Welfare recommends adhd drugs as the first measure of diagnosis. Only in 2016 did 1.6 million citizens collect prescriptions for psychopharmaceuticals. Why is it that, for 20 years now, citizens in Sweden have suddenly had such chemical imbalances in their brain that they need to be medicated for the rest of their lives? Perhaps the Government can contribute a theory. My question to the Government, however, is this: out of much, psychiatrist rin may cost without it delivering anything back?
i-YaLGuzGFK7Cn87dpVzQfSp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for the interpellation! The development of mental illness, both in Sweden and in many other Western countries, is very worrying. In Sweden we have seen how public health in general is improving, but since the early 1990s we have seen an increase in mental illness. Of course, the efforts that the government is now making on psychiatry are extremely important. Such efforts were also started under the previous government. I would like to say that, in the area of health, today we are in a shift. We note that, in many other diagnoses, we have good knowledge of treatment methods and of the resources required, but that psychiatry is somewhat behind schedule. That is why the investments we make are important. This applies, in particular, to the investments made by the government in developing first-line psychiatry, that is, rapid support and assistance, as well as the link with children and young people, which is an issue that we have debated in the past in an interpellation debate in this House. We note that we have quite long queues for child and youth psychiatry, i.e. for BUP – specialist psychiatry. But probably many of these young people would actually need to be caught up considerably earlier through pupil health or youth clinics. Then they might also be able to get help at a more appropriate level. We see that the prescription of both antidepressants and adhd drugs is greatly increasing in Sweden, just as in some other western countries. It may be important to enter the debate that we take on board new research and update our treatment methods on this basis. One example of this is the new guidelines that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has developed for health care when it comes to mild to moderate mental illness – i.e. depression or anxiety – where today much more than medication is primarily recommended for example therapy. When we see that there are growing needs in this area, while we are becoming much healthier in other areas, we need to ensure that there are healthcare professionals capable of responding to the needs of the population. A bottleneck that we have right now is the availability of psychiatrists and curators who can work in these activities and meet people where they are, not least given that every other woman who is currently on sick leave is sickly registered because of a psychiatric diagnosis. You can imagine that the person would actually have needed to meet a psychiatrist or therapist in some form when it applied for primary care. From next year we will introduce a sharper health guarantee in Sweden. You should have the right to meet the right profession within three days. There is a thought to this that has to do with this very discussion, namely that it is not self-evident to see a general practitioner when the need is as it is today. Perhaps you should instead meet a psychiatrist or another profession, who can better respond to the needs that you have. I will return to the question of medicines in the next speech.
i-Ad3S3oede4wxsvmZBDrg1o	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Government was upsetting a lot of things that are needed in psychiatry, but I still do not hear an answer to what the effects have so far been of all the billions that have been invested and what the effects will be of those who will continue to be invested. It is clear that we need more knowledge in the psychiatric field. We do not need to think about whether the need exists, but this is a fact. It is rather strange that we are stomping on the same spot as we did 70 years ago when it comes to the soul. We certainly have an avalanche increase in mental illness. But in fact, it is the diagnoses that are increasing avalanche, and this is due to the new diagnostic DSM-5. The stress symptoms that people exhibit based on their life situation are converted directly into diagnoses. Adhd has fewer criteria in the new DSM-5, which means that more children are diagnosed now than in the past. In the past 15 criteria had to be met in order to be diagnosed, but the number has now fallen to between 8 and 10. Roughly speaking, adhd preparations resulted in sales of SEK 840 million in 2016, with around 103,000 patients. The cost per patient will then be 8 000 SEK a year. In 2006, the number was diagnosed 14,859, with sales of SEK 90 million. So we see a 600% increase in the number of patients in such a short time. We are also seeing an 800% increase in the cost of medicines. Can that really be reasonable? On top of this, we have additional costs for investigation, lost time and health visits. A private investigation costs between SEK 15 000 and 45 000. The entire adhd industry is bringing in about 100 billion internationally. The diagnosis and medication of the entire population in Sweden is a remarkable development. People are in line today to get a diagnosis, which never before in history would have happened. Among those under 30 years of age, early retirement has increased by 40 per cent in ten years. So we are on a ticking bomb, and that is why we must dare to carry out an analysis. Stress-related diseases can probably be addressed much more effectively and cheaper if we welcome healthcare providers who are not linked to the pharmaceutical industry – i.e. alternative treatments. The pharmaceutical industry consumes money but gives nothing back. On the other hand, we are becoming increasingly sicker at increasing costs. Show me, the Government, another body in society that could show zero results and at the same time demand more money year after year!
i-EmsVfFRNwqvyXiNLTai7w9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for the post! Of course, I do not share the view that psychiatry has zero results, but I think that we in Sweden have a psychiatric system that works very well. But it is clear that there are areas for improvement, not least on the basis that we see that needs are increasing. It is incredibly important for me to emphasise once again that the choice of intervention is a medical assessment and not a political one. It is doctors who make this assessment. Nor should we forget in this debate that we are actually seeing good results. Too many people have made the whole difference. For example, we have seen developments in antidepressants, which make them work much better today – with far fewer side effects – than they did 10 to 15 years ago. Many people are helped by them and can come back and live a full life again. It is likely that the problems we associate with adhd have always occurred. However, it has not been diagnosed to the extent that it does today. The increase may certainly be mainly due to increased knowledge in this area, both in the public and in health care and school. At the same time, one reason why this has become so evident in our society may be that both school and working life today impose higher demands in a way that makes it more difficult for people with adhd to function in society. I will be honest and say that, of course, I am also bouncing to the sharp increase that we are seeing in this area and the sharp increase in the prescription of medicines. I can also understand the importance of the person receiving an adhd diagnosis carrying this with him for the rest of his life. I also said in my interpellation response, among other things, that in 2015 the National Board of Health and Welfare produced a decision support with recommendations on drug treatment of adhd in children and adults. The purpose of the recommendations was, of course, to contribute to the provision of pharmaceutical treatment of adhd based on the best available knowledge and in an equal way across the country. But, as I also said in the answer, given the rapid increase, it is important that we follow this closely. What concerns me and which I also touched upon in my reply is that here too, as in so many other parts of the healthcare system, we see quite large regional differences across the country, also in relation to the prescription of adhd drugs. It can be both over- and during the sale. I will monitor developments closely, and I will also look in particular at whether schools, although not, require a diagnosis in order to make resources available to students, for example.
i-ac00059349199ef8-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, and thank you for following this question closely! I think it's necessary. However, I cannot agree that psychiatry works well. I and many people with me – also many who work in health care – believe that psychiatry is in crisis. It's a big problem that we diagnose more and more. I see that there is a great interest in profit in the pharmaceutical companies, and that is what this is all about. Many times stress - related problems have to do with an unbearable situation in life. So you get diagnoses and drugs for that. It's not the way. I think it costs society too much to pursue this kind of policy. We should be careful not to sprinkle diagnoses around us that require strong medications. It stigmatises, it impairs the health situation and it does not serve the benefit of society. For psychiatry in Sweden, I think it is best to skip the National Board of Health and Welfare's new guidelines on pills and electrocution, which in the worst case will displace the CBT. If you follow the guidelines, the possibility of personalised psychiatric care will be significantly reduced. It is not only contrary to the Patient Act, but will also mean even more sick leave and early retirement, which in turn threatens the entire health insurance system.
i-7wauQApCdibneujP2uTj75	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for this interpellation debate! I think I said that psychiatry is partly working well. Of course it does. But I have also been clear in both this interpellation debate and other interpellation debates that I see a need for further development. This is also why the government has chosen to make the major efforts we make by sending funds to county councils to continue developing the quality of psychiatry, not least first-line psychiatry, where there is work to be done. It's not really a big deal. This is what we usually do when we see that a diagnosis for one reason or another is increasing in the population. Then we need to adapt the way in which we organise health care on the basis of it. I would say that this is the kind of work that we in Sweden are in. You should, as you say, be careful with heavy diagnoses, and of course as a doctor you should know what you do when you diagnose patients. Adhd is a long-term or chronic condition, and therefore drug treatment, if introduced, often becomes multi-annual. Initially, only children were diagnosed with adhd, but today we see an increasing number of adults diagnosed. They may have lived a long time with adhd without being diagnosed. This debate will continue. The work of developing psychiatry will continue. This is something that I'm very souled by.
i-ac00059349199ef8-239	Madam President, I would like Margareta Larsson has asked me if there is a point in seeing our history and reflecting on psychiatry historically in order to in our time dare to make new political decisions that benefit the patient. How society has treated people with mental illness is largely about the view of mental illness. Historically, there are major shortcomings in the treatment of people with mental illness, and serious abuses have occurred. Legislation on psychiatric care in Sweden began to change during the 1960s in order to increase legal certainty for the mentally ill, and a comprehensive development work for improved psychiatry has since taken place through, among other things, the psychiatric reform and specific government initiatives. Nevertheless, in some cases there are major shortcomings in the care of people with mental illness. This may partly be due to the fact that more people than ever demand care and treatment for mental ill health and that it is therefore difficult for health care and care to be sufficient. In order to curb the development of increasing mental illness and to improve the availability and quality of healthcare, the Government has implemented a number of measures. I will mention some of the most important ones. In 2016, the government adopted a new strategy in the area of mental health, which applies in 2016 – 2020. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk of mental illness. Mental ill health is a priority area for the government. The Government allocated over SEK 1 billion in 2017 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health and makes the assessment that there is a great need to further expand this initiative. The Government is therefore strengthening the investment in mental health by SEK 500 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work by SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. In 2017, SEK 100 million was added for this year to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry for children and young people. This investment will take place in 2018 – 2020. Given that many asylum seekers and new arrivals are children, the Government also allocates SEK 50 million per year from 2018 to improve access to healthcare to combat mental illness among children and young people in the group of asylum seekers and new arrivals. Most of the investment in the area of mental health is allocated to municipalities and county councils through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. If we get effective care, both in first-line activities and in the more specialized psychiatry, we ensure that people with mental illness receive the efforts and care they need. Accessibility in healthcare is a priority for the government. Over time, the availability of healthcare has improved, but in recent years there are worrying developments linked to the accessibility measures in the healthcare guarantee. The issue of accessibility is also closely linked to the issue of skills provision. The staffing and skills supply problems that exist in healthcare help to reduce the capacity of care and thus accessibility. This may, for example, be about closed care places. The government has taken a number of measures including increases in both general and targeted state grants, but also several other measures. The Government's strategy in the area of mental health should stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk. We will focus on creating the conditions for finding long-term solutions with joint responsibility in regular structures. Finally, I would like to say that the choice of interventions and diagnosis is a medical assessment and not a political one. On the other hand, increasing access to psychiatric care and improving prevention against mental illness is a priority for the government.
i-ac00059349199ef8-245	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This debate will not be about money and the economy, but about ethics. I agree with what the Government says – it is important to increase access to psychiatric care and improve prevention. Many would have previously been saved from being killed if politicians 50 years ago had had the courage to ban lobotomies. People would also not have been forced to sterilize if politicians had stopped this insanity, based on racial ideology, in time. A politician may not have to interfere in medical judgment, but when it comes to psychiatry, we probably need to be on guard in view of our past history and also our present, because there are a lot of guesses and admissions when it comes to diagnosis. For there is nothing to prove the claim of chemical imbalance in the brain, a claim used to try to heel on us antidepressant drugs. This myth has been put to death by several heavy scientists in the world a long time ago. There is no measurement or medical evidence of serotonin deficiency in our brains. No X-rays and no blood tests prove it. On the other hand, drugs and drugs create a chemical imbalance in the brain, and that is why withdrawal symptoms are so severe when they are stopped. That's why many people keep eating them when they want to quit. The confidence the Government has in the current expertise, without interest in monitoring developments in recent research and conducting independent analyses, is worrying. This belief would in principle mean that the Government would defend lobotomies and forced sterilizations if carried out today on the basis of science and proven experience. Madam President, I would like I fear that the entire population of Sweden will soon be diagnosed with chemical imbalances in the brain and other congenital defects. We really need to analyze this. Suppose the pharmaceutical industry is right! Does that mean, then, that evolution is going backwards? And if so, what has really happened? If Sweden's population suddenly has a lot of chemical imbalances in the brain and needs medicine for life, then let the pharmaceutical industry prove it! Let them prove that psychopharmaceuticals do not cause chemical imbalance but instead cure! They won't be able to. That is why we should also be sceptical. We should be open to researchers who have drawn different conclusions from those prevailing. Madam President, I would like In view of all the financial support the Government in its interpellation response mentions giving to psychiatry, I would like to ask: What difference will they make? What concrete difference can we hope for in the past? Can money stop drug use, diagnoses and electroshocks? What is the government's vision, other than wanting to give priority to mental illness? The UN has drawn attention to the crisis and the non-existent results in psychiatry. It points to a link with the pharmaceutical industry. That is why the UN is calling for a revolution to break down the power of mental health policy. I would like to hear the Government comment on that.
i-ac00059349199ef8-253	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Larsson for the interpellation. It is not always possible to stand in the Chamber and in this way have the opportunity for a more reflective interpellation debate. In my interpellation response, I have tried to describe that with the de facto development that we have in Sweden, where more people at least feel bad, both among adults and among children and young people, our health care must be inclined towards research, proven experience and evidence and developed to meet the needs that people experience. It is, of course, a terrible story we see when we look back in time at how Sweden and other countries have looked at mental illness, which has been treated in the most terrible ways. Nor is it a secret that, in our society and in our country today, this is still very clear issues that are extremely stigmatised, despite the fact that so many people at some point in their lives are affected by what we call mental illness. People who have experienced episodes of more or less severe mental illness rarely want to talk about it. It is still something that for many is shameful. This also makes this debate of course very important. As the responsible minister, of course, I will not go in and choose different treatment methods, but it is about leaning towards the research, evidence and proven treatment methods that exist, evaluating the results of the interventions and as knowledge develops and changes also change the way in which it develops and provides treatment. I feel that it is still a bit exciting to reflect on what is written in Margareta Larsson's interpellation. What's what? What is mental illness and should be treated as a mental illness, just as a broken bone should be treated as a broken bone, and what are new challenges in the time we live in and cause difficulties? What's normal grief? What is it that means that our feelings change during different periods of life when we experience different things? One should not overly medicate things that belong to life. It is something that is also being debated a great deal in different parts of society, not least in view of the fact that we have so many young people who are feeling worse and who are feeling worse and worse. As I have said in previous interpellation debates, we have a great need to be able to meet these young people earlier than today, to be able to discover this in student health and offer call support through youth clinics, for example, so that not the only step is that they end up in the queue of specialist psychiatry with everything that might follow from it.
i-ac00059349199ef8-259	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for very good questions. I also think it is very important for us to have this kind of reflection, so that not everything is just about money and crowns in debates like this. There is a very important point to make, including all suicides committed in psychiatry. In 2016, 1,643 patients had killed themselves in closed and outpatient care over the past four years, according to SVT News's review from last summer. Compare the number 1,643 with the 236 deaths in traffic the same year, it becomes quite strange. The facts show that it is six times more likely to die if you end up in psychiatry than on the roads in traffic. Why is this not mentioned more clearly in this House? It is a fairly important issue. I think it can be a lot about attitudes. Then why do we have these attitudes? I believe, Madam President, that this is a cultural issue that can probably be traced back to the German experimental psychologist Wilhelm Wundt, founder of Behaviorism in the 19th century. This Wundt laid the foundation for today's massive psychiatric drug depression, amphetamine treatment of children, electrocutions, sterilizations and lobotomies. It was without exaggeration an attitude toward man, who, according to Wundt, was a chemical machine, a willless animal without a soul, to be controlled by drug drugs and intimidation of desired behavior. Without any questioning on the basis of science and tried and tested experience, a large number of people were exposed to icy baths, water drainage, shocks, lobotomy, throwing swings and other devices. The public who happened to walk around mental hospitals at this time could hear horrendous screams. You kept your distance scared. No one could save these patients, because they were already so stigmatized. Madam President, I would like We certainly do not have any slings today, and I hope that there will be no diversions to our closed prisons. But we still have belting, forced gloves, isolation, separation, coercive medication and complete drug consumption with any psychopharmaceutical whatsoever. We also have the electric shocks in Sweden, for which Report advertised last Friday. Of course, staff turnover is huge, for why should one enjoy such an environment? There is no money in the world that could change the comfort and meaning of working in that environment as long as Wilhelm Wundt's spirit haunts the walls. There is also a risk of being influenced by peer pressure when it comes to the view of the people locked up. Madam President, I would like Ignorance is great when it comes to how different medicines match each other and how the side effects respond. It is easily interpreted as new diagnoses. In my opinion, this view of the human being in psychiatry is out of date. I wish the Government would hold me on to it.
i-ac00059349199ef8-265	Madam President, I would like That is very interesting. One question you might ask yourself is: What is normal? We can consider our society today and, above all, the fact that young people are feeling so much worse today. Is it because we narrow down what's normal? There is, for example, a completely different possibility through social media to compare with others and be able to relate to how to be and what it should be like for it to be normal. I would like to return to what Margareta Larsson started her speech with. Why is the fact no more heard in this House that we have a level of suicide in Sweden that lies where it is? Despite the fact that since the early 1990s we have had a rapidly increasing mental illness in society as a whole, there is still a huge stigmatisation of these issues. Many feel uncomfortable with debating and discussing them, and sometimes other issues may be easier. I know that in a previous interpellation debate we have had, I have told you a little bit about the efforts the government is making to improve suicide prevention. The Public Health Agency now has a national coordination mission. It is about coordinating the non-profit actors in the field and providing knowledge and support to the activities that exist around municipalities and county councils. It will be very exciting to follow it. We have also increased the resources for that work. This is a debate that will continue for a long time. We have spent quite a lot of money in this period of time. In the agreements that exist on how these funds are distributed in municipalities and county councils, there is a little more precise what the resources should be allocated to. We also have follow-up assignments linked to it so that we will see that we get results from the investments we make. Above all, however, we are quite right to talk about improving prevention. It's about catching early signals and making sure we have a working first line in psychiatry for both children and adults. These are the efforts we make to strengthen student health. There I think we will have to move on and do even more, to be really honest. It is important to gradually ensure that we make use of the most up-to-date knowledge available in the field and that it is applied by those who work professionally in these activities. The competence issue is a central issue and how we make it more attractive to work in our operations. I'll stay there.
i-ac00059349199ef8-272	Madam President, I would like I don't think money can fix attitudes. We can spend as much money as we can in psychiatry. However, if we retain the power-fullness and imbalance of power that we have today in psychiatry, there will be no difference. That is also what the UN rapporteur clearly points out in his report in June 2017. It is believed that there is a link between the psychiatric crisis and the pharmaceutical industry. As the UN Special Rapporteur says, new bold political decisions are needed to reverse the negative spiral. It takes learned politicians with confidence to think independently. It requires an open mind and a patient perspective where you first ask the patient how the treatment has been and not the doctors, because they have not taken the treatments. There are shortcomings. In the UN report of 6 June 2017, we can read that public health policy on mental illness is in crisis. It is not because of chemical imbalances in the brain that we are fooled into believing, but because of power imbalances in society. Therefore, the UN warns that power and decision-making in psychiatry are concentrated in the hands of biomedical concierge and opinion-makers purchased by the pharmaceutical industry. Madam President, I would like We must therefore leave the outdated view of man as a chemical machine and let Wilhelm Wundt rest in peace. I hope the Government will one day agree with me on that.
i-ac00059349199ef8-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for a good and important debate! I'm sure it will continue in different ways. Not least in psychiatry, we need to have a much more person-centred treatment method relative to people where people can be part of designing the treatment they most need based on their individual needs. We need a clear patient perspective in these activities. Nevertheless, I see above all that the resources we now provide to develop psychiatry in Sweden are resources that are really needed in view of the needs. I am quite convinced that they will come in handy. In psychiatry as in other healthcare activities in Sweden, we have important competence issues in the future when it comes to the supply of skills. It is important to cope with it and increase the attractiveness of working in psychiatry and modernizing treatment methods so that it will feel more attractive for those who seek and want to work in the activities. Thank you for a good debate.
i-ac00059349199ef8-280	Madam President, I would like Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether I intend to examine urgently the issues of shortcomings and grey areas in care at the end of life and how a strictly regulated right to euthanasia could best be designed. If not, Staffan Danielsson would like to know how I feel about allowing the question to be examined in a referendum, as has happened in a number of states in the United States. Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to initiate an investigation into how a strictly limited and regulated form of euthanasia, such as the so-called Oregon model, could be allowed in Sweden. The task of Swedish healthcare is to prevent, investigate and treat diseases and injuries. It also includes alleviating suffering and promoting the quality of life of patients in the final stage of life due to progressive and incurable illness or injury. It is extremely important that patients in this situation receive the best possible care. Like any other care, care at the end of life should be based on respect for the patient's self-determination and integrity. With regard to end-of-life care, much has been done over the last decade at national level to promote positive development. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed national knowledge support that provides good guidance for the governance and management of palliative care. Through government support to regional cancer centres, a palliative care programme has been developed, applicable regardless of the diagnosis. The Government also provides support to the Swedish Demenscentrum, which among other things provides knowledge support and a web education on palliative care. The Medical Products Agency has published recommendations on pain treatment in the final stages of life. The National Board of Health and Welfare has clarified which rules apply when painful symptoms cannot be alleviated in any other way than by palliative sedation affecting the patient's level of consciousness. Since 2011, there have been special regulations from the National Board of Health and Welfare on life-support treatment, which specify, among other things, the conditions for stopping such treatment. There is also a manual to the regulations that provides additional support in healthcare. The Swedish palliative register serves as an important tool for monitoring and improvement work. In its follow-up report from 2016, the National Board of Health and Welfare notes that trends indicate a steady improvement but that there is also a need for improvements in some areas. It is of course important that county councils and municipalities carry out continued improvement work within palliative care. These efforts partly respond to the questions raised by the State Medical Ethics Council in 2008 in the letter referred to by Staffan Danielsson and Johan Hultberg in relation to grey areas in healthcare. The issue of euthanasia is a complex and difficult issue. It has many different aspects and will be discussed with great humility. In essence, however, I have no other opinion than those of my predecessors with whom Staffan Danielsson has previously debated. Today, I am not prepared to initiate an investigation into euthanasia, nor do I think that a referendum on this issue would be appropriate. As Staffan Danielsson himself states, there is also no clear support in the Riksdag for such initiatives. Of course, I have great respect for the views expressed in the debate both by those who argue for and by those who argue against euthanasia. I also have great respect for those who find themselves in the difficult situation of incurable and fatal illness and for their relatives, as well as for those who express concern about what legalised euthanasia could mean from a social point of view. I have great respect for those who say that legalised euthanasia would mean a fundamental change in both the medical role and the mission of health care. The government currently has no plans to review the regime that has been in place in Sweden for a long time. I am aware that this is an issue which will continue to be debated both in Sweden and abroad and which we will continue to have to deal with. Therefore, for the sake of the debate, I welcome the summary of knowledge recently published by the National Council for Medical Ethics, which will hopefully contribute to a more knowledge-based and factual debate on this issue.
i-ac00059349199ef8-290	Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you for your reply, and forget my harsh words earlier in the debate! I am going to be a little emotional here too, because this is an important issue that touches us deeply. It is an important, urgent and sensitive issue we are discussing. I think the Government has a fair tone of voice in the answer. We elected representatives, who really represent the people and the broad majority of the people on this issue, are not dismissed as cold and insensitive by the Council of State as by, for example, the Medical Association and some religious forces. But on the matter, the Government is relentless. She refers to some studies and projects that have been carried out, and that is a good thing. But it remains a blank no to what the National Council for Medical Ethics, Smer, has requested since 2008: an investigation to improve palliative care across the country. There are shortcomings in healthcare, and there should be an investigation to see if it is enough or not and how it is with the grey areas between pain relief and the euthanasia that doctors can actually put in today through terminal sedation. The doctor decides, and the patient's will doesn't count. It should also be examined how a strictly regulated right to euthanasia could be designed in Sweden. But it is against this presentation from the National Council for Medical Ethics. My interpellation is very long; admittedly. But it certainly contains the strong arguments that I and many others feel are so strongly in favour of investigating and introducing a right to euthanasia in the event of severe suffering in the final stages of life. I think that Minister of Social Affairs Strandhäll takes on a great responsibility when she today, in 2018, with the knowledge we have about these important issues through, for example, Smer's excellent knowledge compilation, does not have the courage and the power at least to have the issues investigated so that the debate can deepen and broaden. I am convinced that within about five years Sweden has introduced a right to euthanasia in the few cases when this is a person's ultimate will in severe suffering in the final stage of life. Why didn't the government do more already in 2018? That's how it's gonna be called. Why this passivity? And yes, I know that the Alliance and Minister of Social Affairs Göran Hägglund did just as little. But then Smer's knowledge compilation was not there – the one that convincingly shows that the arguments for strengthening and that the arguments against do not hold. I realise that the issue of a right to euthanasia similar to that which currently exists for nearly 90 million people in six US states and in Canada is so sensitive that the issue of introducing it, or at least investigating it, may first have to be anchored in a party assembly or congress. I appeal to the Minister for Social Affairs and to responsible leading politicians in all parties to take such initiatives in their parties. Please note that in many cases, and by a large majority, the issue has been settled by means of decision-making referendums. The Oregon model of euthanasia is well anchored on the other side of the Atlantic, and there are no plans to back down. In Sweden, the journalist Inga-Lisa-Lisa Sangregorio, who was involved in pushing through the right to abortion, after a severe cancer, has written the brilliant book The Last Freedom. If you listen, or the Minister for Social Affairs, hesitate on this question: Read the book, and there is no doubt left! Journalist Norbelie Norbellie appealed at DN Debate about mercy to die prematurely in his severe cancer. Two leading doctors in the Medical Association were against euthanasia but changed when they suffered severe cancer, and so on. The opinion on the matter is crystal clear. 70 – 80 percent of the people are in favour. There has been a recent survey from Novus that shows that 61 percent are unequivocally in favour and that 14 percent are against, like political parties and the Medical Association.
i-ac00059349199ef8-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer I would of course have liked would be a little different! I had really wished and somewhere hoped that the Minister would, in any case, open the door in a glad way to look at these pressing issues. Madam President, I would like For my part, it would have been easier and more convenient if I had not taken part in this debate and if I had failed to raise the issue of euthanasia to debate and discussion. This is a difficult discussion. It is a question of difficult ethical balances and a discussion of boundaries. But I do not think, Madam President, that we politicians must duck too difficult questions. On the contrary, we have a responsibility to put the spotlight on them, discuss them and investigate them in a serious and good way. I think it is in some sense a betrayal that this government is not acting on this issue, just as I think it is a betrayal that previous governments, regardless of colour, have not done so either. It is a betrayal of those who desperately appeal for help to take control of their suffering and death. I think it is a betrayal of the principles that we otherwise hold for obvious, namely the right to a life of our own and the right to self-determination. This is a right that is apparently curtailed when one approaches side death and is in a desperate and difficult situation. Madam President, I would like I cannot turn a blind eye to the difficult stories and testimony that come to me. It is people who are sick in ALS, for example, who appeal to avoid being choked to death. It is people who want to control the end of life and have the opportunity for a calm and orderly closure instead of a death of pain and distress. Madam President, I would like In the run-up to this debate, as well as the previous debate that Staffan Danielsson and I had with the Minister's representative, Mr Wikström, I took off my party needle, because this is not a party political debate. This is a general human issue. It is a question of ethics and of the view of the individual's right. I think that anyone who opposes euthanasia, who says no, as the Minister now unfortunately seems to be doing here, and is not prepared to even lift the stone and investigate the question must actually answer the questions as to why people's right to self-determination is so severely restricted at the end of life. Why should not the one who is about to die, the one who suffers from terrible pain and anxiety, be given the opportunity to decide for himself how to end his life? In fact, I think it is necessary to answer this question if you are not even prepared to investigate it. Madam President, I would like Just as Staffan Danielsson was involved in his previous post, we have gained very valuable new knowledge. Among other things, Smer, Statens medicinsk-ethiska råd, has contributed to this. A knowledge overview has been drawn up of the experiences of other countries where euthanasia is currently practised and is legal. The United States state of Oregon has the longest experience, but there is also experience from the Benelux countries in Europe. I think that the knowledge compilation shows in a good way that the concerns that are often highlighted in the debate about the sloping plane and other things are not true and that there is absolutely no contradiction between good palliative care and euthanasia. Instead, the compilation shows that they can actually be reconciled and that it can rather help to strengthen palliative care.
i-ac00059349199ef8-307	Madam President, I would like Death aid is a difficult issue which I believe we politicians must not avoid. We must not shrink from it because it is difficult. The Swedish debate on euthanasia has been going on in waves since the 1970s. The Medical Association says no to euthanasia, but the corps is not entirely united. Senior doctors are more for than younger doctors. At the same time, more and more countries are legalizing euthanasia in some form. In Finland, more than 60 000 people have signed a citizens' initiative, and this means that the Finnish Parliament must raise the issue. In the Swedish debate, arguments for and against euthanasia have been put forward. Some of them have not been factual. This is one of the reasons why the National Council for Medical Ethics has produced its report. I'm on the council. V i produced a report in 2008, but we saw that more knowledge was needed here. That is why we have now produced evidence on the so-called Oregon model, which exists in five US states and which, almost two years ago, was also introduced by the Liberals in Canada. Then there is information on the euthanasia offered in the Benelux countries, Switzerland and some other countries. The models differ. The Oregon model that has been around for 20 years offers assisted dying by the person asking for help himself taking a medicine. The criteria are that you are terminally ill, have less than six months to live, are over 18 years old and have the ability to make decisions about your care. In the Benelux countries, on the other hand, they have what is called euthanasia, where doctors can give the medicine by injection. There the condition is that the person concerned suffers unbearablely. Smer's report deals with arguments for and against. Some are fact-based. For example, it is rejected that this would be a threat to people with disabilities. They are not affected by this model at all. The availability of palliative care does not affect demand either. The purpose of Smer's report is to have a broad public debate and provide guidance on how to proceed. The question of investigation was discussed at the Liberals' national meeting in November 2017, and the decision was made: The Liberals should await the forthcoming debate and Smer's position on the outcome of it before the party takes a position on the substantive issue. This is an important citizen's issue. It's not a professional question. I would like all parties in Parliament to initiate debates within their parties on the basis of the knowledge base. I notice that when I highlight the facts for and against, the reaction is: I have to think about this, because I have reacted emotionally to yes or no to investigate this issue further. I very much hope that all parties listening to this debate will take this to heart. Read the report properly and have your own discussions within the parties so that you know for sure what the facts are in the matter.
i-ac00059349199ef8-316	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the interpellants for a very important and difficult debate! I am thinking of what Mr Westerholm said in his speech here about the need for the parties to take on board the Smer report and to hold the debate in their own parties. This question arouses a great deal of emotion in many different ways. It somehow touches the innermost within all of us – the right to have ultimate control and self-determination over when you want and need to end your own life. I know that my predecessor, Mr Wikström, has debated this issue in this House with you. You, not least Staffan Danielsson, have a very long commitment to this issue which I have been able to follow. I know that Mr Wikström also said that he did not think that the form of investigation might be the best form for this issue, given that it would probably be very difficult in a parliamentary inquiry for individual parties that have set a foot in the matter to change their minds. The Smer report was something that Mr Wikström raised and that we were waiting for in connection with the previous interpellation debate. Perhaps they wanted to lean on it to clarify the matter a little. I can state from Smer's report that no new recommendation to the government to raise the issue in an investigation is being made. Barbro Westerholm will be happy to comment on that later. It is difficult that we do not have the professions with us on this issue, although there are, of course, individuals who disagree, for which I also respect. But in general, it is believed that this would change the very basis for doctors' role in health care and, in fact, also the basis for the way in which Swedish healthcare is conducted. We have also done quite a lot of development work in palliative care. I am aware that there is more to be done, but steps are still being taken in the right direction. I sometimes think about the opinion polls on this issue. When it comes to such difficult and deep ethical questions, the answers you get may depend greatly on how you ask the questions. That is not to say that there is no opinion on any form of euthanasia in Sweden, but I have seen figures of everything from 40 per cent to 90 per cent, a little depending on how you ask these questions. We must respect that too.
i-ac00059349199ef8-324	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to endorse Johan Hultberg's brilliant and clear contributions and Mr Westerholm's equally clear contributions. Now it is the Minister for Social Affairs that we are discussing with, but the Minister for Social Affairs stands for the view that eight parties, part of the medical profession and some Christian churches are behind. They feel the same as the 14 percent that Novus's survey, which has just come, opposes the right to euthanasia. 61% is in favour. I mean it's not 40 - 90, it's 70 - 80. We also know what the outcome has been in the referendums that have been held in the United States. In all there has been a broad majority in favour, except in one state where the Catholic Church mobilized strongly, and it became very even. It is not the Catholic Church or Christian Churches in other parts of Sweden, nor the Medical Association that should decide this matter, the Minister of Social Affairs. It is the Swedish people who will do it. I meet the Swedish people, and so does the Minister of Social Affairs. They're in favour. They have relatives who have suffered, and they look at this in a sober way. It is a concern that the Swedish people are in favour and that the political parties unfortunately do not represent the Swedish people's views on this issue. You can draw a parallel to a similar situation in Sweden three four five years ago. On the issue of migration, there was a clear opinion in popular opinion, but seven parties were of a completely different opinion. It won't last long. I hope that will change as and when. Democracy means popular rule. I want us to do this in a typical Swedish way, namely that we investigate the issue and get a proposal on how the Oregon model, which I think is best, could be introduced, and then we will have to discuss it. We can't let the National Board of Health and Welfare introduce it or anything like that. As I see it, it is a parliamentary decision or a referendum. Now the Minister of Social Affairs owns: in no investigation, no proposal and no referendum. That means we're on the same square as we've been in a long time. It's not sustainable. What are the arguments against a referendum? That's a difficult question. But the parties, the government and the parliament are not representative of the citizens on this issue. Sometimes difficult questions are raised to the people, often when the parties have different views. We don't really have that now. Instead, there is a diametrically opposed view between the parties and the Swedish people. I am going to start pushing this issue. But I want it to be absolutely clear that I want it to be decided in the ordinary Swedish way, with an investigation. We should look at the summary of knowledge that Smer has done so well and come up with a proposal on how a strictly regulated law could be drafted, and then we will have to discuss it. If we cannot resolve it in Parliament, which I am sure we will do within five years, then we will have to take a referendum. But if there is not even an investigation, we will have a referendum as soon as possible. That is how I see the question. I should have quoted Harald Norbelie and Inga-Lisa-Lisa Sangregorio here. They are two strong personalities with a clear message. Read Inga-Lisa-Lisa Sangregorio's book, Minister of Social Affairs! Then we'll agree.
i-ac00059349199ef8-334	Madam President, I would like When I and Staffan Danielsson debated this issue with Minister Strandhäll's representative, Gabriel Wikström, quite exactly three years ago, Wikström said, "It is quite impossible, of course, to imagine what it is like to sit in the waiting room of death." Moreover, this experience is entirely individual. And that's exactly how it is. That is why, for me at least, it is quite obvious to listen to the people sitting there in the waiting room of death – to use Wikström's words. Why should the people sitting in the waiting room not be allowed to decide for themselves when to step over to the other side? I wish the Minister would answer that question. In his reply, both the first and the second, the Minister highlights the importance of good, qualitative and accessible palliative care. Of course, we are in complete agreement on that. I am pleased that palliative care has been developed and is still being developed. I welcome much of what the Minister highlights in terms of improved guidelines, national quality registers and other things that hopefully help to improve quality but also make palliative care more equal across the country. We know there are problems with that. Madam President, I would like However, I think we need to be honest and honest in this debate. We must note the fact that palliative care has its limits. The vast majority of people in our country die a painless and hopefully anxiety-free death. But it doesn't apply to everyone. According to statistics from the Netherlands, approximately 2–3 percent probably die with quite a lot of pain and anxiety. Should we translate it into Sweden, we are talking about about about 2 000 people, whose suffering I think we should take seriously. We can begin by finding out how many they are and what pain and problems they are suffering from. If we look at palliative care in countries where there is euthanasia, such as Benelux, we can see something interesting, namely that where you have legal euthanasia, you spend more than other countries on palliative care. The experiences of Oregon also show that palliative care has developed in a positive direction, thanks to the Oregon model of euthanasia. What palliative care can never give the one-way patient is control. And it is control that many patients who demand euthanasia ask for. You ask for the opportunity to – if the expression allows – pull the emergency brake and say: Now I wish to have an orderly and good farewell with my loved ones. ..................................................... For example, if you have ALS, you know that you are likely to face a painful death. It's a terrible disease course. Of course, it is impossible to know in advance what one thinks is unbearable. The experience from Oregon also shows that a whole third of those who receive the medicine never use it. But it is an important insurance for the individual to know that that day the suffering is too great and my life is not worth living I have the opportunity to pull the hand brake and swallow the tablet.
i-ac00059349199ef8-342	Madam President, I would like First, I would like to answer the question about Smer. In the coming year, we await the debate that is taking place. Then I don't know what we're going to decide. What I want to mention here is the patient's self-determination. It has been strengthened since we received the Health Act in the early 80s. Today we can say no to life support treatment. We can say no to life - sustaining treatment being initiated and can ask for it to be interrupted. Today you also have to sleep into death at the very end of the day, if you have severe pains, severe anxiety and so on. But it is not possible to decide for yourself when life will end if, as in the Oregon model, you suffer from a terminal, i.e. fatal, disease, have less than six months to live, are over 18 years old and have their self-determination left. You can't. And that is the part that the debate is about to be held. Smer has highlighted data where there are facts and where there are no facts. So this is an important citizen's issue. Younger doctors are negative, as are some senior doctors. But there are senior doctors who, based on their life experience, affirm this. That is what the debate must now be conducted with respect for the fact that it is a difficult issue. One should not base one's positions on gut feeling, but on knowledge and empathy.
i-ac00059349199ef8-346	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate shows that these are issues that arouse a great deal of emotion. As I said in my previous speech, it is somehow about the innermost part of being human and the right to control one's own life. Basically, Mr Westerholm, it must of course be acknowledged that the debate should be conducted on the basis of facts. It is a very good job that Smer is now doing by trying to sort out the different facts that occur in the debate. The group of disabled people, for example, has expressed great concern on these issues. No matter how much of the facts you want the debate to be marked by, there is also a fundamental feeling and argument that comes in – and so does when we debate this now. It touches so strongly. It was also expressed here that, in recent decades, we have seen to a large extent that the patient's influence and self-determination over his care and treatment has increased. Not least in this House, we often talk about how to get an even more person-centred care and how to involve the patient and the patient's will even more clearly. I am thinking of what Johan Hultberg said about palliative care. It has also evolved. It is a good thing that there is still a need to do in this area. At the same time, I think that far too few are aware of the good and dignified care that is actually available in the final stage of life today. It is important that we continue that work. You will certainly try to correct me if you think I am wrong, but I find it difficult to see at present that there is clear political support in Sweden for introducing a regulation that allows euthanasia. I can also say that this is not something that my own party is pushing. I can clearly see that there is no clear opinion on euthanasia in healthcare either. I would like to come back to what we are debating here, whether or not the way forward is to set up an investigation. I have some doubts that the form of investigation is the most appropriate way to move this issue forward. If you set up a parliamentary inquiry, it is probably easy to find yourself in rather locked positions. Johan Hultberg took off the pin. There are also differences of opinion within the parties on this issue. And then who's going to sit in such an investigation, I was about to say. That's part of it. Smer has more experience in pushing this kind of process forward. We will simply have to follow the continuation of the debate in the coming year. But at this point, we will not advocate an investigation.
i-ac00059349199ef8-355	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the social minister's reasoning tone. But we do not come from the fact that someone has to decide. Is there going to be a decision on this? I do not think we can get away with anything less than parliamentary decisions or referendums. Then an investigation is necessary. There, the parties may submit their comments. There's no other way. This is the issue. The Congress of the Environmental Party is in favour of an investigation. The Moderates are close to advocating an investigation. As far as my party is concerned, I have discussed the question several times at party meetings. I've got 40% of the votes with me. It's moving. I have had friends who have passed away in severe cancer and in ALS under very severe suffering. There are many who listen who have experience of it. It doesn't matter how strong and clear their ultimate will was. Any means of shortening the suffering in the agony of death are forbidden to distribute. It's blank no from the health care. If, on the other hand, you say you can't take more and choose to starve or thirst to death – which means an extremely stressful suffering – does the Minister of Social Affairs know what the answer is from the health care, the merciful doctors and nurses? Well, there you go. Let's watch. Let's get started. Is it worthy of a just society, a merciful society, to deny a man his ultimate will for euthanasia through the printing of means and at the same time accept that he has the right to thirst and starve to death? I don't think so. I appeal to the Minister for Social Affairs: consider the questions and arguments in this debate! I think the question has come out in a very good way. Bring it to the Social Democrats! We in other parties will do our best, and then I hope we can meet again here.
i-ac00059349199ef8-361	Madam President, I would like The Minister is quite right, of course, that, as a moderate, I have a lesson to do in my own party when I push this issue to get my party to take a stand and actively contribute to moving the issue forward. At the same time, it is a problem that Members of Parliament in this House have nothing clear to relate to, to take a position on. When I discuss euthanasia with my party colleagues, most are in principle in favour, but you have questions about where the border should go, how to rig the law, what the system should look like, what the court should cover, if the health care system should be obliged to participate. There are a lot of demarcation problems. Then it would have been good if you could have got an investigation that looks a little more specifically at how the system could look like to have something to take a stand on and relate to. The model I'm arguing for is not so revolutionary. The Minister suggests that euthanasia would be in the health care system. The Minister pointed out that this would radically change the role of health care. The model that I and most euthanasia advocates in Sweden argue for – the so-called Oregon model – is that the healthcare professionals should have the right to answer yes to the individual's question about help to end his or her life. It is not a question of the health care system being obliged and not of doctors being forced, but of having the right to ask the question and the right of health professionals to answer yes. Madam President, I would like For me, this is an important issue in principle. I believe that every individual has a right to his or her life, but no man has a duty to his or her life.
i-ac00059349199ef8-367	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good and respectful debate on a difficult subject! I think that this debate has been transparent in view of the fact that perhaps one is struggling in one's own party with the question and what is the motive behind it? It is a very good honesty that shows to some extent how difficult this issue is. We're talking about people's right to their own life and the right to control their lives. Staffan Danielsson said that close relatives or friends have passed away in severe diseases. Those of us who have seen what this can bring may feel a little extra in our stomachs when we debate these issues. I am, of course, taking with me the recordings that the interpellants have highlighted in the debate. I can see that there are issues that have not moved so much since the last debate was held with Gabriel Wikström, but we have touched on some issues here today that have moved a little bit. I look forward to the continued debate. I have great respect for the fact that this can be viewed differently. At the moment, the government and I have come to the conclusion that we do not intend to set up an investigation, but we will carefully follow the further debate.
i-ac00059349199ef8-372	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to secure critical infrastructure and close safety gaps as soon as possible. The government is aware that there may be shortcomings in the information security of our socially important functions. The government is also aware that cyber attacks against various actors in our society are ongoing. Therefore, this government is carrying out a broad array of forces to strengthen our security. A new total defence is under reconstruction, and the government has taken a series of measures to strengthen our information and cyber security. Last year we increased the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB's, resources to strengthen society's resilience to cyber attacks, and in 2018 we quadruple the increase and make it permanent. The Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency have also received significant reinforcements of resources. The Government has also decided in June 2017 on Sweden's first strategy for information and cyber security. The implementation of the strategy began immediately, and so far the government has decided on a number of tasks that contribute to achieving the objectives of the strategy. They include monitoring authorities analysing and assessing their own information security. We have also introduced mandatory cyber-incident reporting for government agencies. In addition, even more providers of essential services will be obliged to report serious cyber incidents and take security measures. This obligation comes into force once the EU Directive on measures for a high common level of security in networks and information systems, the so-called NIS Directive, has been implemented. We also strengthen the control of government agencies' outsourcing and transfer of security sensitive activities by introducing a consultation obligation with the Swedish Security Service or the Swedish Armed Forces and an opportunity for them to decide that the authority may not carry out the procurement. But that's not enough. The government is therefore initiating further new measures to strengthen society's resilience to cyber attacks. A national campaign on information security aimed at the general public and small businesses will be conducted, and the capacity of county boards to support municipalities in their work on information security will be increased. The measures taken by the government during its term of office are thus important steps to strengthen information security.
i-ac00059349199ef8-380	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The origin of my writing this interpellation was a review by the Swedish Radio Ekott. They identified safety deficiencies in public IT systems. What came out at the time was extremely worrying. It turned out that thousands of vulnerable systems existed in a number of authorities, municipalities and companies that handle, among other things, sewers, fire alarms and district heating. In addition, several Swedish power plants have serious safety deficiencies. This led me to think about what foresight and knowledge is available in municipalities and county councils to secure cyber security and information security. Of course, when we talk about total defence, these systems must also be secured at local and regional level. It turned out in Ekot's review that many wind and hydro power plants lacked passwords. So it was possible to control these works without a password. Besides, there was confusion. Safety analyses had not been carried out on the possible impact of an attacker on these works. The head of operations for cyber security and the protection of socially important activities believes that Sweden has lost its security. I have also seen in other reports that we have been at the forefront of digitalisation. Now other countries are catching up with us. That's how it gets natural because they've been a long way behind us. But maybe we should take another step forward. It also turns out that industry has not worked well on these issues of vulnerability and needs to be given directives on how to do it. Last spring there was a cyberattack on municipalities. It was mainly in Britain. But even the municipality of Timrå, for example, suffered such a real break. In my municipality – the municipality of Flen – we have also had such an attack that took out most of it. In Falkenberg, at least five sewers were open on the internet, some with no safety and others with minimal safety. The fact that the water is not properly purified is a nightmare for every municipality and its inhabitants. A well-functioning information and cyber security is essential for society to function in both peace and war times. We have, from moderate quarters, proposed, among other things, that this should be brought together and clarified by, for example, setting up a Council of Authorities. We also see that this should be collected at the Government Office rather than at departmental level. The same applies to the municipalities, i.e. that they put it on the municipal management and not on, for example, a community building committee. It must be something that covers the total. MSB has very good recommendations to the municipalities when it comes to what they need to review. It is, among other things, the designation of an information security function. The first thing that the function must do is to produce an analysis of the current state of play and how to work with what comes out in the current situation analysis. An action plan must be drawn up, steering documents must be drawn up and policies must be put in place that take account of all the functions. Then I wonder: What is the situation in Sweden's municipalities today? In what way does the government follow the work, and does the public sector have the resources to ensure the necessary measures?
i-ac00059349199ef8-389	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer to the interpellation. Robotics, automation and, above all, digitalisation are concepts that will shape society increasingly in the future. This, of course, creates enormous opportunities but also very great vulnerabilities. I therefore believe that we need to work more to protect the systems that enable digitalisation. Indeed, if these systems fail, they can sometimes, at best, paralyze and, at worst, harm us, especially if cyber attacks are aimed at control systems and at damaging critical infrastructure systems, such as energy security or hydropower. The contradiction for Sweden is that we are good at digitalisation but weak on cybersecurity. A report presented at the World Economic Forum two years ago pointed out that Sweden was the world's third most digitised country but that we were not even at the top 20 when it came to our ability to develop cybersecurity defence. Basically, it creates vulnerabilities and, above all, great dependencies with a low level of security. It's not a good combination. Why is that? It is certainly part of our administrative culture that has meant that we have not been very good at building cybersecurity. But I dare to say that there is some connection to the lack of confidence that has also characterised parts of military defence. I believe that civil defence has also characterised part of the work linked to the information and cyber security focus. For this there is a great debt in both political blocs over decades, because we have actually underestimated the threats, risks and vulnerabilities associated with this area. The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs now mentions a wide range of measures that the government has taken in this area. I think a lot of that is good. However, I have some comments on the answer that I would appreciate some clarification on. Above all, I would like to know whether we have the same picture of problems. The Minister says that there may be shortcomings in the information security of our socially important functions. I dare say it's an understatement, to put it mildly. I would have expected a little clearer answers, not least in view of the breakdown that took place at the Transport Agency in 2015 and then when the government would handle this issue within the Government Office, but above all because the annual reports from Must, FRA and Säpo from 2017 so clearly point to the major shortcomings that exist in cyber security in Sweden. It is a question of a lack of ability for safety analysis of what is safe. It is a matter of shortcomings in IT infrastructure. And it is a question of a lack of safety culture in this area. So there is much to do. As regards the Minister's reply, I wonder whether he is behind Mr Säpo's – his own expert authority – assessment of the fact that there are indeed major deficiencies in information and cyber security in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to address a specific question linked precisely to Lotta Finstorp's interpellation on the situation in the municipalities. As the Minister of Justice knows, in 2015 MSB evaluated information security in our 290 municipalities. It was concluded that seven out of ten municipalities in Sweden lacked systematic work on information security. This is, of course, very serious. The Minister mentions in his reply that he believes that an information strategy should be aimed at entrepreneurs and small businesses and that the county boards should be given greater responsibility linked to the municipalities' cyber security. I'm sure that's a good thing. However, I believe that it will also require a review of the regulation and supervision of municipalities when it comes to information security. I would therefore like the Minister's comment on these points.
i-ac00059349199ef8-398	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Finstorp for the interpellation, which I think highlights a topical and very important subject, namely the new technology. We are still saying the new technology even though it has been a while since it was introduced. It has been a fantastic tool, and is a fantastic tool, which has given us huge profits. It is precisely as has been pointed out in the debate, that is, that Sweden has been at the forefront of developments in digitalisation and this new technology. However, that also makes us, as you have pointed out, very vulnerable. We are becoming vulnerable to attacks by foreign powers, which is the more defence policy perspective. It's about the risk of foreign power entering our systems and thus perhaps using them to disturb us in general – but perhaps also to prepare for a worse armed attack thereafter. It may, as it were, be the prelude to such a development. We will also be vulnerable to terrorist activity. It is clear that the risk is there too, that someone can get into our systems, destroy them and hurt us. Then there is the risk of hackers of various kinds, and Lotta Finstorp points to a couple of such cases that we have had where they have entered the systems and then committed blackmail. As a nation, we have not paid sufficient attention to this. I'd be happy to agree with that. That is precisely why we are now carrying out a much-needed rapture, and I would like to point out that almost everything we mention has been started during this period. We did that after we took office. We have an incident reporting obligation, which we did not have before. From 2016, all government agencies will have to report when they experience this type of incident, so that we can get a grip on what type of attack we might be exposed to. As of June 2017, we have a special national strategy for society's information and cyber security. There was no such thing as before. An outflow of it was that all guard authorities will analyse their own structures to see what vulnerabilities exist, and they will report to the government on 1 March 2018, i.e. in just a few months. In that part, MSB has helped. We have given a special assignment to MSB and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to review the health care system in collaboration with SKL, i.e. the risks that exist there and that could possibly be exploited by different interests to harm us. Then we also have the municipalities in the big part. There is much that can be affected; you have mentioned the supply of electricity and the supply of water and sewerage, which are, of course, vital activities that could be tackled. After all, the government commissioned MSB – in fact already in the regulation letter 2015, i.e. very quickly after we have taken office – to produce the recommendations to the municipalities that Lotta Finstorp now refers to. They were produced until January 2017. It is no coincidence, then, that these recommendations exist, but it is because we took hold of this after we took up office. I am also saying in my reply now that we will shortly be giving a special mission to MSB to improve the information security of municipalities, that is, to help with that together with the County Administrative Board. As I said, that mission will be announced now in just a few weeks. We also allocate money to this – SEK 10 million for 2017 and SEK 40 million for 2018. However, we should remember that this is part of the major investment we make in civil defence, which totals 1.3 billion for 2018, 2019 and 2020.
i-ac00059349199ef8-405	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear what the Minister has to say in his speeches, because we have a lot of common ground and we see the same problem. Nevertheless, the government has taken, one might say, quite good time to develop the national strategy. We are, for example, the last country in the European Union to produce one. This is probably because for decades we have been living in a senseless – together; there we have to take on some too, of course. Now, however, we are moving more and more into a sharp position. I can take one example, namely when my municipality a few months ago became completely without electricity. It was a large main line that had been dug off, so it was not a terrorist attack, but, for example, the home service could not get into the old ones. The home service has tags that open the doors with electricity, and there was no backup power. So the elderly who needed help from the home service could not get it that day, because the staff simply did not come in. All of this must be analysed very carefully and clearly in the municipalities. I believe that above all the smaller municipalities – as Flen municipality, which I represent – need help. It is good that there are financial resources, but there must also be human resources so that you can get officials to help with this. If something happens in healthcare, it will have a huge impact because much is digitised in healthcare. I very much hope that everyone takes what needs to be done very seriously. You have to analyze, you have to have action plans and you have to know exactly what you're doing when it happens-- because that's going to happen. We believe that the government has taken important steps in the strategy but that it does not reach all the way through. I would like to quote my colleague, Pål Jonson, who said in the Committee on Defence's debate: This strategy is rich in goals. It contains 66 objectives divided into 32 pages. A benevolent interpretation of this is that the government has very high ambitions in the cybersecurity field. Another and, in my view, more likely interpretation is that the government simply has not been able to prioritise or be clear in political governance when preparing the document at the Government Office. If everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. ..................................................... I would like the Minister to comment on how these objectives are linked to how they are to be implemented and by what means. Both information and cyber security in Sweden are described in the investigation. It was also pointed out that the LOU, the Public Procurement Act, could be a problem in the procurement of IT operations by public operators, as the issue of cyber and information security could be prioritised down to lower prices. Well, it's common knowledge that you often shop at the lowest price. That is why we have proposals that the government should look at how public actors can make better use of the law on procurement in the field of defence and security. It could make it easier for many to use it instead of the LOU, in order to ensure high quality in the necessary systems. I would like comments on that. There are many actors who say that one would need to have a common, state cloud service for the government's IT operations. Then I can think like this: I think it would be good, but at the same time cloud services can be very vulnerable – something happens in cloud service a lot is going down. The FRA has also advocated a cloud service for the Swedish authorities and the state companies. I would also like to hear the Minister comment on this.
i-ac00059349199ef8-413	Madam President, I would like I want to start where I left off, namely with the role of the municipalities. Nevertheless, the 290 municipalities in Sweden, together with the 47 civil defence surveillance authorities and together with the Swedish Armed Forces, will create the total defence together. It is a form of ecosystem with many and great dependencies between the parts. No chain is stronger than its weakest link, it is usually called, and it is particularly in this context that municipalities' lack of information and cyber security is so serious. Basically, it has two reasons. Firstly, it will be necessary for the Swedish Armed Forces, county boards, guarding authorities, county councils and municipalities to be able to communicate with each other in a secure way. Strengthening information and cyber security will be necessary. Today, these actors cannot communicate with each other, and that is a major shortcoming. Secondly, a very large amount of information and cyber security work is needed to enable municipalities to handle classified information, and they will have to do so much more than in the past. In fact, they will become a much more important player in the framework of total defence. It is therefore against this background that I identify the municipalities as the weak link in civil defence and total defence. That is why I think we need to put our weight into it, and I think we need to be open to regulation. We need to find good supervisory models for the municipalities, so that we can scale up protection there. I also know that we will soon have a new security law at Parliament's table. It's good– the old one is from 1996, and the world looks very different today– but I wonder if any measures are also taken in the Security Act to actually strengthen the information and cyber security of municipalities.
i-ac00059349199ef8-417	Madam President, I would like It is clear that one can always criticise on the subject that something should have been done in the past, that things have gone too slowly and so on. At the same time, everything I report here has been added during our term of office. It concerns the incident and reporting obligations, the specific strategy on information and cyber security in June 2017 and the mission to all security authorities to review their own structures and secure them. It's the same with the health care example. As has been said, it is no coincidence that the mandate in the MSB's regulation letter regarding recommendations to municipalities came in 2017, but it is an outflow that we took hold of this already at the beginning of our term of office. Now there will also be another assignment to MSB that is about helping and supporting the municipalities in order to be able to work better with this. If Lotta Finstorp asks for help to Flen, this is an answer to that. There will be an assignment to MSB to do just this together with the county boards and in cooperation with SKL. All of what I report has been added during this government's period. If I were to say something about what happened in this area in the bourgeois years, it would be very empty. It would be completely quiet, because it happened almost nothing. Let's move on – this only concerns missions. As Pål Jonson pointed out, a new security law will apply to all actors dealing with sensitive data of different kinds. This also includes parts of municipal activities. In addition, we will extend the Security Act with sanctions, so that there will be sanctions to apply to those who do not comply with the Security Act. Stefan Strömberg is currently investigating this issue. The Parliament will have another legislative matter during the spring, namely the implementation of the N IS Directive. The Council's referral is about to be completed – we are on our way with this. In this respect, it implies, among other things, higher requirements for electricity grid operators, electricity suppliers and electricity companies, as well as for those handling drinking water, as they are covered by this. It also covers private activities in general. There are also possibilities for sanctions, including fines from SEK 5 000 up to SEK 10 million, which strengthens this overall. We have just decided on a special consultation obligation and veto rights for the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces in cases where an authority intends to outsource security-sensitive activities and to sell them out or contract them. In such cases, Säpo and the Armed Forces will have to look at it. There is therefore a duty of consultation. If Säpo or the Swedish Armed Forces say that the authority concerned cannot do the way it is proposed, because it endangers national security, they also have a veto right to be obeyed. Then the outsourcing won't happen. This is a very sharp instrument whereby you break off the previous developments, where you would privatise and outsource everything, mostly because it would be so. Let's say that time is over. Now we say that it is safety first, and that is why Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces should have this opportunity. The resource question was the last one I came up with. In 2017, we went out for the first time with money for MSB, and there will be an additional 10 million for 2018. We also build civil defence with 1.3 billion from 2018 to 2020.
i-ac00059349199ef8-430	Madam President, I would like These funds are available, if I am properly informed, in the defence agreement. So it is something that we have done together– we have seen that it is an important issue. The Alliance government also set up the investigation in 2011. Incident reporting is an EU requirement. It is good that we are going along with the other EU countries. I imagine cyberattacks are not just something that happens inside the borders of the country, but something that strikes wide. I think that the issue of cloud services is quite interesting and clearly something that one should look at further from an analysis with impact assessment and so on. It is also important that we have broad political agreements on issues of defence and security policy. It has served us well against external threats and will continue to do so, but unfortunately a broad parliamentary consensus on how to deal with these issues is lacking. Moreover, it becomes serious when even the government does not speak with a common voice on these important issues for Sweden's future. I find what the FRA has described extremely alarming: Sweden is exposed to around 10 000 state-sanctioned cyber activities a month. I feel that the municipalities must be in place and that they must be given all the support and assistance they can get. We therefore have a growing threat picture, as both FRA and Must and Säpo point out in their annual reports. It is also important that the Government Office is organised so that you can accommodate these big questions, so that there are good routines for how to do it when something happens and so that everyone knows what to do. We have been talking about a cybersecurity coordinator, who we think could stick with the work on these important issues.
i-ac00059349199ef8-437	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the issue of cloud services and a common cloud service. I do not exclude this, but I see exactly the same risk as Lotta Finstorp in putting all the eggs in the same basket. Then you have to make sure that this is really very safe. However, I do not rule out the need to go that way. I know that this has been proposed by some of our authorities, and I am happy to look further at this issue. I want a broad consensus on this. As Lotta Finstorp pointed out, the money that is now going out is part of the deal that was struck last autumn. The reason I became a little gramse in my previous post was that I thought Lotta Finstorp criticized us for being slow. I just wanted to point out that we have done all this and that we are continuing with this job. There is no reason to argue about this when we do not have to. That's good-- there's a broad deal at the bottom. As far as the organisation of the Government Office is concerned, I would like – as I know this is something under discussion – to say that this issue is being dealt with by the Ministry of Justice, which is in charge of the crisis management function. We have asked the officials who are working on this if it is better that it is with the Ministry of Justice than that it is with the Council of State Committee, and they have been in agreement that it is better that it is with the Ministry of Justice. These officials have worked under both schemes. Their view of the matter is because we have close access to some of the things that have to work, that is to say to the authorities that are most closely affected: civil protection, MSB and the police. We simply have a more close contact with the authorities and can therefore act much faster and more efficiently. This is the assessment they make. Thank you for the debate, Madam President. I think it's been very good.
i-ac00059349199ef8-443	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I have taken and what I intend to take to counter the problem of illegal activities in the taxi industry. Edward Riedl has also asked me what measures I intend to take to stop the online criminal activity in the taxi industry. Just like any other business activity, taxi operations shall be carried out legally. The fact that companies stretch or even systematically violate regulations also brings unfair advantages to competitors. Unsound competition is being created. The government is aware that there are problems with cheating in the taxi industry, mainly because taximeters are not used in accordance with established requirements. On the issue of car sharing, the government considers this to be fundamentally positive, but of course such car sharing that can be categorized as black taxis should be prosecuted. Each year, the Police Authority carries out checks on professional traffic. In cases where black taxi operations are suspected, the offence is investigated. To overcome unfair competition, several authorities need to work together to deal with the problem. Often it is broken against a variety of regulations at the same time. These include, for example, infringements of tax legislation, abuse of tax-funded systems or money laundering and fraud. The authorities' knowledge, missions and rules differ, but when they combine them in joint efforts, they can work from different directions to tackle the fraud. The government has strengthened its efforts to combat unfair competition. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government proposed that SEK 18 million be invested annually for three years to strengthen the authorities' efforts against unfair competition. In December, when the Riksdag decided in line with the Government's proposal, the Government commissioned the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish Police Authority and six other authorities to develop methods for joint control of public authorities to combat cheating, breaches of regulations and crime in the workplace. The social partners shall be consulted in order to develop ways of harnessing their knowledge and experience. In order to give the Police Agency even greater opportunities to prosecute and investigate crimes, the Government has proposed and announced contributions to the Agency of approximately SEK 9.8 billion during the period 2017– 2020. The government has thus taken measures that will counteract fraud and irregularities in, among other things, taxi operations.
i-ac00059349199ef8-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Competition on equal terms is an important foundation in all functioning democratic societies. The state has an important task in ensuring that everyone pays their taxes and charges and that those operating in different sectors comply with the laws and regulations we have decided on. It's important all over the industry. As an individual citizen, you should be able to rely on competitors to pay the same taxes and charges that you pay and that they have to comply with the same laws and rules. Then you have competition on equal terms. This is one of the most important tasks for the state. Urholkas this is challenged a variety of things. Then tax morals are challenged. It also challenges the possibility of maintaining decent wages and conditions in the most vulnerable sectors. We can see this not least in the taxi industry. We can also see this in the transport sector as a whole. Part of this is challenged. The Minister describes companies, but I want to be clear that this is not just about companies. In the taxi industry, for example, which we are debating today, we are also talking about individuals who, on various social media, offer a ride for payment. They are not entrepreneurs but still challenge industries and entrepreneurs there. In a high-tax country like Sweden, where you pay a lot of taxes, it is clear that the difference between the person paying their taxes and contributions and the person who does not pay it is quite large out against the consumer. That's part of the problem. It's very lucrative to break laws and rules. Let us look at the solutions available. I think the Minister is on the right track. I think we're looking at a lot of the same kind of solutions. It is about more controls and increased investigative capacity. All of this requires more police officers. That's where it bottoms. We need more cops to handle this. Madam President, I would like It is important to remember that this government, when it took office, had a development that was quite good. It had been many years with more and more policemen, thanks to good politics. But every year since we changed the government, there have been fewer police officers. We have under 20,000 police officers today. Thus, even though the population has increased and the police's challenges have increased, we have fewer police officers. Despite all the beautiful speeches from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and others, fewer police officers have more and more to deal with. That is, of course, part of the problem. This is also about the safety of those travelling. The black taxi business is not a safe business for anyone, either for the driver or for the driver. They also challenge long-term s j yst conditions for taxi drivers – sj yst wages for those in the industry. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister does not really touch on what I am trying to highlight in relation to the problem of social media. It is easy to find a large customer group there. It offers rides where no taxes and charges need to be paid and does not comply with applicable laws and regulations. My question to the Minister is: how does the Minister want to face this new type of crime?
i-ac00059349199ef8-458	Madam President, I would like We do not disagree that cheating and falsification in the business world is a serious problem in many ways. First of all, of course, it means a tax loss. Money that should have gone to health care, school and care and all that we fund together does not come in because of cheating in different ways. Secondly, it poses problems for working life as such, i.e. the situation of employees. In some cases employees are exploited, often in a ruthless way, if you look at it widely. People get to work for 10 kroner an hour and live in a basement. You can exploit people who do not have a residence permit in Sweden, for example, and you can use them as very cheap labour. It's a huge worry. Thirdly, it is a problem for the business community, because it is tearing up healthy conditions of competition. It simply competes out of the market for law-abiding entrepreneurs. For a long time there was a tendency in Sweden that we should constantly liberalise. It was guiding all along – a kind of neoliberal motto – sometimes without any control. This exacerbated the problem. If you don't have strong laws and rules in place, this kind of abuse risks creeping in. Moreover, the bourgeois government cut back on oversight in some respects. For example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which is absolutely central to monitoring on the spot, cut a lot. The taxi industry has been affected by the general development on the whole. But there we have now changed direction. As of 1 January 2017, all taxis with taximeters – that's a requirement for driving taxis – must be connected to an accounting centre. This is in order to make it more difficult, for example, to manipulate the information contained in the taximeters. On December 18, 2017, which was after this interpellation was written, we gave a number of authorities – the Swedish Work Environment Agency, Arbetsförmedlingen, Ekonomibrottsaven, Försäkringskassan, the Equality Agency, the Migration Agency, the Swedish Police and the Swedish Tax Agency – with the task of strengthening their agency's joint work against cheating and falsification in working life. This work, which is now under way, is under the name of Osund competition. It is about working better together and also about developing new methods to maybe get to the Facebook problem, as Edward Riedl points out. This is a three-year assignment from 2018 to 2020. We go in with SEK 18 million a year. In fact, it started back in 2016, when the Swedish Work Environment Authority created five regional authorities' joint supervisory teams. Here, of course, the taxi industry will have to be prepared to be subject to more controls and supervision than before. This about more police officers is a long discussion that we can certainly continue in the next line-up. In short: It takes two and a half years to train police officers. Our concern was that the Moderates trained far too few police officers at the end of their term of office, only 600 - 700. Now we're training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did. Already next year there will be 1 300 new police officers, who will be able to carry out these checks, among other things, but also engage in other types of law enforcement.
i-ac00059349199ef8-466	Madam President, I would like Of course it's that way. I think that I and the Minister agree on a large part of the description of the problem, and we probably also share the picture of what happens if this does not work – when you undermine tax standards and the impact it will have if people withhold money from the public purse. I think we can find broad consensus on all this. Let me say, however, that the Minister is a bit out of his way in this debate, even though it is about taxis, specifically black taxis. I think that's a shame. In what way does the Minister think that liberalisation in the taxi industry is part of the problem of black taxis in our cities and online? I don't see any connection to this. This is an act of pure illegality. There are no companies carrying out this activity. So I cannot understand this. There I would like clarification from the Minister. In what way does he think liberalisation is part of the problem of those who do not even run businesses? These are people who get in the car and drive for pay. More and more of them are also finding their way online. This is a big problem, not least on weekend nights and nights. Madam President, I would like This is really what my interpellation was about. What measures does the Minister envisage? What the Minister has listed is in a lot of things that I think are good and that we also worked with the previous term of office under the Alliance Government, such as tightening up to different parts in terms of metering and so on. But all this is aimed at the part of the taxi industry where there are companies, while m ina interpellations are about black taxis. This applies to those who do not have businesses, but push people for payment and thus withhold taxes and cause many other problems. This is what I would like the Minister to reply to. There are fewer and fewer police officers. I note in debate after debate with the Minister of Justice how much you invest in the police and how many more police officers you train. But every year since the new government took office, there have been fewer police officers. That's the problem. Three and a half years after taking over government power, the former government is being accused of having fewer police officers today. The big problem, Madam President, is that you are dissatisfied with the leadership as a police officer. You are also dissatisfied with your salary. These are the two great explanations. This government is training more police officers; I've never said anything against it. I've said that, despite this, there will be fewer police officers. This is because we have never had the situation that so many police officers end up like today. 3,000 police officers have stopped since the current government took over. That is why today there are fewer policemen than when you took over the government, even though there are more residents. The challenges facing the police are greater, and it also means that this type of crime must be given priority by the police. Fewer traffic police officers are supposed to deal with all the crime in these industries, Madam President. It's a big problem.
i-ac00059349199ef8-472	Madam President, I would like I broadened the debate a little bit to deal with cheating and falsification in general. If controls and supervision are reduced, as has become the case, among other things, as a result of your cutting down on the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the effect is of course that this risks growing as a problem. There are some problems in the taxi industry even with the companies that drive as entrepreneurs. In some places, the meter is sometimes sloppy. You don't always turn it on, but you drive without it being registered and so on. That's also a concern. We will, of course, end up in the police debate again. It takes two and a half years to train a cop. By the time we took office in 2014, the bourgeois government had trained between 600 and 700 police officers per year for a consecutive year. At the same time, between 400 and 500 police officers a year retire. If you have that rate of training, it is far too little to cover the departures; everyone understands that. We are no longer in a labour market where one can expect a trained police officer to remain as a police officer throughout the working life. There is now a large private labour market for police officers as well. That's why you have to educate more people. But, of course, you also have to keep the police officers you have. Then it is about working conditions. It could also be about wages. Just two weeks ago, the Police Authority and the Police Federation signed a wage agreement that provides higher wage developments for police officers than for other groups. In addition, special efforts are being made on police officers in external service and in vulnerable areas. It is also strong – the big money is already going out this year. That's what you have to do. More training should be provided and better working conditions offered to recruit those who have left the profession and to ensure that more people remain in the profession. But this is not free, Madam President. It costs money – tax money. That is why we are now going in with the biggest efforts to the police in 20 years. It has never – no matter what colour it has been on the government – happened that we raised the police's finances by SEK 2 billion from one year to another, which we are now doing from 2017 to 2018. Why do we do that? Because we want to build a situation in which, in 2024, we have a total of 10,000 more employees in the police force. As I said, this costs money. It's not free. Should you in the Moderates retain the priority you had during your last term of office in power, when in practice you only prioritised tax cuts but very little of other activities, you will not be able to afford this. That is the situation the Moderates are facing. You spent $140 billion on tax cuts. The police received only 5 billion in eight years with bourgeois government. With such a priority, you will not be able to do this. The money and the space that we now have we are using to a large extent for law enforcement activities. We have managed to double the rate of education. Next year there will be 1 300 police officers in the labour market and in police operations. They will then be able to engage in the fight against crime in general and preventive work. They will also be able to take care of some of the current concerns in the taxi industry, including those pointed out by Edward Riedl.
i-ac00059349199ef8-477	Madam President, I would like The Minister tries to broaden the debate, he claims all the time. I would like to say, Madam President, that he is trying to avoid the subject. He hasn't answered the questions I was trying to ask about black taxis. The Swedish Work Environment Authority and liberalisation – none of this has to do with those who are not entrepreneurs, but these are a large part of the problem that I highlight. These are both common black taxis and black taxis online. Yes, the alliance government reduced taxes. This meant that ordinary hardworking people got more left in their wallets and that a lot of people got new jobs. This, in turn, meant an increase in tax revenue. When tax revenues increased, we invested in the police, among other things. When we went for the police, Madam President, there were more police officers. Every year during our time, there were more police officers. When this government bets, there'll be fewer cops. Anyone listening to the debate may notice a difference in this. I see a questionable difference. There will be fewer police officers, even fewer traffic policemen, while the population and the challenges will grow. My point, Madam President, is that there will then also be fewer checks and fewer investigations. The problem of black taxis is growing as a result. Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister not to use his last answer to political pamphlets but to tell him how he thinks we should face the problem of black taxis and the black taxi we see emerging online. It is not a question of entrepreneurs, but of individual people who, against payment, offer rides to other people. When you do that, you undermine tax standards. The people who work in the taxi industry are challenged by those who do not pay taxes and charges. Then the difference will be huge.
i-ac00059349199ef8-480	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that the question that Edward Riedl points to regarding Facebook and carpooling is very difficult to access. I have not heard Edward Riedl come up with a proposal on how to get to grips with this. He just says: Solve this somehow! Then I say: We have to try, and the only thing you can look at is, of course, how the police work in relation to these groups. Then we are back on the issue of resources, that is, what police and law enforcement resources we have. If we increase resources and have more employees in the police, we will of course also have more opportunities to get to grips with this. Madam President, I would like It was not only that you reduced taxes by 140 billion and financed some of it by cutting back on supervision, for example at the Swedish Work Environment Agency, Edward Riedl. It also meant that what we had to start with when we took office in 2014 was a huge budget deficit. SEK 60 billion left Anders Borg behind. In such a situation, the first thing to do must be to try to correct the mouth after the lunch, i.e. try to sort out the public finances before you can make the big efforts. I would have liked to have made greater efforts across the board already before, but you inherit a deficit from the previous government you actually have to deal with it first. Now we've done it. So we can go out with the big money that we are now going out with. As far back as 2019, there are 1,300 new police officers who, among other things, can help to put order into cheating and falsification in working life and the business world as a whole, but also on the black taxi side.
i-ac00059349199ef8-483	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what I and the government intend to do to tighten up and increase the number of checks for sobriety and speed violations in traffic. Road safety work is a self-evident and important part of the Political Authority's activities. The aim is first and foremost to help reduce the number of road deaths and injuries and to provide safety for road users. According to the Police Authority's traffic strategy, police intervention should help to reduce average speed and increase the proportion of sober drivers in traffic. Sobriety is checked at each driver's and vehicle's control and is a task carried out by all police officers in external service. Sobriety checks are also an important tool for detecting and preventing other crime. The police's speed monitoring is carried out both by manual checks and by means of automated road safety checks, known as ATK. Automatic checks have a high general and individual preventive effect and contribute to an effective investigation procedure in case of speed violations. According to the Police Authority's operational statistics, the number of traffic offences reported to prosecutors increased by 7.5 per cent in 2017 compared with the previous year, which is positive. In order to improve the conditions for the police, the government has among other things proposed historically large additions of resources to the Police Authority for the next three years. However, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to determine how the overall resource is to be used in relation to the needs of the activity. However, greater security on our roads is not just a police issue but requires preventive action from the whole of society. The Government has recently commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to introduce sobriety control facilities in some ports. The Finnish Transport Agency will also propose how mobile solutions can be used in other ports and other suitable places in the traffic environment. An interim declaration of the assignment shall be submitted by 31 March 2018 at the latest and the final report shall be made by 31 December 2020.
i-ac00059349199ef8-490	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to the interpellation is that the statistics speak clearly. We see that there are fewer and fewer sobriety checks in traffic and less and less speed monitoring by the police. That is the very background, Madam President, to the fact that I wanted to have a debate with the Minister on the issues. It's a pretty important piece of the puzzle in the work of reaching zero vision, making sure people don't have to lose their lives in traffic. There I know that I and the Minister are in complete agreement. Madam President, I would like I want to be clear about saying one of the things I'm most proud of in the years I was able to attend when we had alliance government is what we did for eight years. I will honestly say that we inherited one of the world's most road safety countries from the former Social Democratic Government. That government should also have the honour of doing so. But during our eight years, although we inherited the world's most road safety country, we managed to almost halve the number of road deaths by means of a variety of initiatives and measures that separated roads and so on. Some are about making sure that those on the road are sober and that they keep the speed limits as far as possible. That's the background. Here I see a development in which we are heading in the wrong direction, quite simply. As I have said in previous debates with the Minister, today, after three and a half years with the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government, we have fewer police officers, fewer traffic police officers, a larger population and more challenges for the police to deal with. This government has always said that it invests more and fights on, but there will be fewer police officers. The explanation for this is, as I have said, low wages and a management with which we are dissatisfied. This means that police officers stop on a scale we have never seen in Sweden historically. Madam President, I would like We come to the point raised by the Minister here. It's about zero vision. Sometimes I get a little provoked, and maybe it's wrong. Maybe I shouldn't be. This government said, "We're going to reboot the zero vision." This is what it says after an alliance government that has in practice halved the number of road deaths in Sweden for eight years. Now you're going to reboot with the zero vision. That, of course, is basically good. But the question is, what did the government do when it took over? The first decision was to remove the equipment we had in the ports. During the alliance government, we had started work on alcoboms in our harbours to get sober drivers on their way into Sweden. The first thing the government did was to pack up the equipment and ship it to Finland. That was the first decision. The second decision was to cut road maintenance by SEK 500 million. This means, of course, that there will be less money for road safety work. As I said, a situation has also been created in Swedish police, which means that today we have fewer police officers three and a half years later. Madam President, I would like All in all, this leads me to put the questions to the Minister. What does the Minister intend to do? I get some answers. I still want to repeat my question. How are we going to achieve this? If we agree that it is an important part of the zero vision, the question to the Minister is the responsibility: how are we to achieve more sobriety controls? How are we going to get increased speed monitoring when we have fewer and fewer police officers to deal with this?
i-ac00059349199ef8-498	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl wants to go back to time with the eight bourgeois years. I can take the batch even further back in time. When you look at the road safety work for a little longer period, you can see that it is a fantastic success story. I can give you two digits. In 1950 595 people were killed in traffic. It was 172 per 100,000 cars. In 2016, the figure was 270 dead. It was 5 per 100,000 cars. It has gone from 172 deaths per 100,000 cars to 5 deaths per 100,000 cars. It continued since 2017. Last year, according to the preliminary figures we have, 254 died on our roads. It's all time low. It's never been so low. It was 2017. Edward Riedl said he was proud of what they did in the bourgeois years. I hope he's also proud now of what happened in 2017 even if all the time low happened just in a red-green year, and he's just as proud that it is. How did that happen? We have worked systematically on many different fronts. It has, of course, been about the construction of cars, seat belts, airbags, crash safety and inspection, just such a thing. It's been about what the roads look like. There are wider roads with centre railings and many other things that have been done. It has been about speed monitoring with, among other things, the speed cameras that came in the late 90s and onwards. It has been about sobriety and controls, but also extended legislation and changed standards. The norm is now that it is not acceptable to drive drunk. It is true that controls have been reduced in recent years by both speed and sobriety. But I would argue that in terms of speed it is partly compensated by the speed cameras. An additional 200 000 speed cameras will be set up per year by 2020. We will have increased surveillance. I think we should bear in mind that the number of checks is not everything. They must be done right, in the right place and at the right time. Otherwise, it'll just be the old kind of stick hunt. Pin hunting is a well-known concept in the police world – you make a check just to make it happen and you have to reach a certain number. But maybe it's more about where, when and how to do it. That's the most important thing. Edward Riedl doesn't want to go back to the time when they were talking about the stick hunt, does he? For the first time since 2009, the police's investigation results are now increasing and more investigations are reported to prosecutors. This is the result for 2017. The negative trend has been reversed. We had a number of years where the number of investigations just fell and fell. Now it's increasing again. One category that increases, and increases greatly, is the number of traffic offences investigated. There are speed violations, drunk driving, illegal driving and a number of other crimes that increase this category. The number of investigations of this increased by as much as 71⁄2 per cent last year. The police are now delivering more in the specific categories of crime we are talking about than they did just a few years ago. Perhaps there may also be a need for more controls. It is, of course, linked to the resources you have. We are now strengthening the political authority's resources by 2 billion already this year, and we are gradually expanding. We are now carrying out, Madam President, the biggest effort on the police force that any government has made in 20 years.
i-ac00059349199ef8-508	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that it is probably not anyone who thinks pin hunting is good. On the other hand, research is quite clear in terms of both sobriety checks and speed monitoring: it is a question of re-rehearsing as a motorist to face such checks in order to also set up in the normative work. I therefore have a frank question, Madam President: does the Minister have a different view than that we should have more sobriety checks and more speed monitoring of our roads? It would be good to know, because then we simply have different perceptions of how to reach the zero vision. I do not think, as I said, that stick hunting in the Swedish police is good, and I find it hard to see that someone would think so. On the other hand, there is an intrinsic value in having many checks on these particular parts. That does not in any way rule out targeted checks in order to get a better shot. That's how the police work today, and that's how they've worked before. You get tips that it is someone who often drives drunk, and then the police stand in a place where you get a hit on this person. It's part of the job. The second part is about many citizens meeting sobriety checks and speed checks. It's two different parts. It would be interesting to know whether it is the Minister's view that it is in the number of controls, which has become fewer – it is in practice a halving in some areas since you took over government power – that you find the explanation that the police are working smarter. So the police pick out the individuals they watch on a spot when it comes to, for example, sobriety and other things. It's not the picture I get when I meet the Swedish police. It is precisely the opposite, that is to say that there are considerably fewer traffic policemen and fewer opportunities to deal with this. That's the explanation I get. The Minister will be happy to correct me if he has a different picture of this. In the previous debate, the Minister said that all the problems that had been raised during eight years of alliance government had to be addressed and that a deficit was inherited. It was very problematic for this government. So Europe's most well-managed economy was inherited. It must have been very difficult to get into Rosenbad with those conditions – very difficult. I really feel sorry for the government in this. Madam President, I would like When this government with social democrats and environmentalists is going to invest in something, I usually say that it is time to start becoming a little observant as a citizen, because there always seems to be less money for what they invest in. The government is betting on the police, and then there will be fewer police officers. The government invests in sobriety and sobriety checks, and then there will be fewer sobriety checks. It seems to be a pervasive theme that as soon as the government's word is to invest in something, it becomes less – fewer police officers and less resources. Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister to answer the questions sincerely: does he have a different view on sobriety checks and speed monitoring than on having many controls? I ask, given that there have been so many fewer. If it is not the Minister's view, the question is: how can we get more controls? These are the questions I have put to the Minister, Madam President.
i-ac00059349199ef8-514	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course I want to see more checks. But what I am pointing out in my reply is that it is not just about the number. Of course, it's about what you do, how you do it, and at what times you do it. Otherwise it will only be this simple stick hunt. But of course I want to see more checks. At the same time, I can see that the number of traffic offences investigated by the police increased by 7 1⁄2% last year, and this after decreasing. Generally speaking, the number of investigations conducted by the police has decreased since 2009. But in 2017 it increased again. After all, the police are doing something right when, as I said, more and more traffic offences are being investigated, also in this respect. We note that the number of fatalities in traffic was 254 last year, which was all time low. Edward Riedl was worded in his first speech that the government did not even care about the zero vision or that we took measures that would not result in the zero vision being achieved. That's how I interpreted him. The result, in any case, is that there were fewer fatalities in traffic last year. This is due to a wide range of measures that have been taken over a long period of time. Don't simplify things like that just straight up and down! This is a complex situation in which we are investing in very different measures to get things right. The same applies when we discuss the number of police officers. Every time you talk to the Moderates about criminal policy, you end up either in the number of police officers or in the length of the sentences. That's all you really care about. But the concern is once again that your government trained far too few policemen: 600 – 700 police per year. Edward Riedl can still agree that it is far too little. Can we not hear a confession that training 600 - 700 police officers a year is far too little when 400 - 500 police officers retire each year? It is understandable that with this growth in education dimension, the police force will not grow. That is why we have doubled the rate of police training, and we are training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did during their time. As they come out of their education, this will mean that the number of police officers will increase. Then we'll work on the working conditions. We have a new payroll agreement in place. We're re-recruiting police officers who have left the profession and so on. But for all of this, money, money and money are once again required. Then in one breath you cannot go to elections on tax cuts in the 100 billions class and say in the next breath that you also intend to give priority to the police. I can't. If you do that, Madam President, you get exactly the result that you got in 2014, that is, a huge deficit. Edward Riedl tried to make a point of this and pretend that it would have been no trouble for us to sort it out. But we Social Democrats actually think that it is a problem when the state goes with SEK 60 billion in deficit. For we have been involved in cleaning up after bourgeois governments twice before when you have doubled state debt, as you did in the 1990s, and most recently with 60 billion in deficit. We think it is a problem, and we know that running the national economy and the state budget with deficits this year after year is not sustainable in the long term. Therefore, when we take up such a situation, we must try to clean up. And now we have surpluses in public finances and, I would say, an even stronger state financial situation than we have had in the past. That has to be taken care of, and now, as I have said, we are also spending a great deal of money on the police organization.
i-ac00059349199ef8-522	Madam President, I would like Once again, we find ourselves in this: when you criticise this government, it is the fault of the previous government, and it was wrong with the tax cuts that were made. Let me repeat this also in this debate: with the tax cuts carried out by the Alliance, ordinary, hardworking people got more left in their wallets, and far more people got jobs. This led to increased tax revenues and Europe's most well-managed economy during the financial crisis. It was also the opportunity that was given to Sweden to invest in getting more police officers. Under the alliance government, there were more policemen every year. The Minister could say, Madam President, that this was the case. My criticism is, conversely, that since this government took office, we have been talking about how much we should invest in the police, but every year there are fewer and fewer police officers. I have never said anything else, Madam President, and I say it to the Minister when he wants me to admit that you are now training more police officers: yes, you are training more police officers. I read the same statistics as when I read the previous statistics that there are fewer police officers. The problem, Madam President, which the Minister does not seem to see, is that police officers end up as never before as a result of dissatisfaction with the management and low wages. As a result, there will be fewer police officers even though you are training more police officers. There will then be fewer traffic police in the end, which this debate should really be about – fewer traffic policemen who can do sobriety checks and speed monitoring. It's not a good way to secure zero vision goals. My criticism, as it was before, is that the first thing this government did when it took over the government power was to dismantle the alcoboms that the alliance government had set up in two of Sweden's ports and ship them to Finland. That's the first thing you did. The second was to cut back on road maintenance. None of these measures are based in any way on road safety. If we add that there are fewer police officers, which has ultimately led to fewer traffic policemen, there is also a reduction in surveillance.
i-ac00059349199ef8-528	Madam President, I would like As far as sobriety controls are concerned, we have just commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to introduce sobriety control facilities in some ports, in addition to mobile solutions so that one can use a facility in one place at one time and in another place at another time. So there is also a development going on there. Madam President, I would like When we took office, we had 60 billion in deficit. Edward Riedl knows what a deficit is. This means that the income does not go together with the expenses and that each year you can borrow, sometimes by foreign bankers, to cope with our welfare here in Sweden. When we faced such a deficit, which Anders Borg handed over to us, our first thought as Social Democrats was that we have to fix it, because you cannot have it that way. You cannot continue to reduce taxes or make big investments without having money in the cashier. During the first part of our term of office, we worked to create the surplus that we now have so that we can invest money in health care, school, childcare, leisure activities and all the things that need to be done in welfare – but we also invest in the police. That is why the resources for the position now in 2018 are growing by SEK 2 billion. No government, regardless of color, has raised the economy for the police as much as this government does from this year on. They get more money than they wanted, and so there is also money to do much else: to hire the police who come out of training, but also to improve working conditions in such a way that some police officers can be reinstated and more police officers stay in the profession. The basis for this is, among other things, the new salary agreement that the Police Authority and the Police Association signed just 14 days ago. It is the best agreement in the labour market when viewed in a balanced way across the different sectors. That's how you lift the police.
i-ac00059349199ef8-533	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me how I intend to act in order to ensure a higher police presence in the more sparsely populated parts of the country, to reduce insecurity among even-citizens and to increase the number of solved violent crimes. The last few years have brought major challenges to the Police Authority. These have been dealt with by the level of police staffing left behind by the previous government. Strengthening police work and enabling more police officers to fight crime and increase security throughout the country are priorities for the government. The government has therefore recently announced very large increases in resources to the Police Authority and doubled the number of admitted to police training. This is necessary in order to increase police presence and improve the capacity of investigative activities. By 2024, the number of police employees will increase by 10,000. This is an increase that will benefit the whole country. However, it is not only the political authority's responsibility to increase security and reduce the risk of crime, but the responsibility is shared by several. The government's crime prevention programme is aimed at a broad target group, which is a prerequisite for successful crime prevention work at local level. The government is also continuously working to ensure that law enforcement authorities have effective tools in the criminal investigation activities. In addition, the Government has submitted a mission to the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office to strengthen cooperation in the criminal investigation work, which all seven police regions have already seen several positive effects of. According to the Police Authority's operational statistics, the number of cases reported to prosecutors has increased by 5.4 per cent in the North Region in 2017 compared with the previous year. Good law enforcement in the country requires resources at national, regional and local level. According to the Police Authority's data, 56 per cent of the North Region's resources were at the local police area level in December 2017, which is a clear improvement since January 2015. The extent to which the current distribution is sufficient in relation to the tasks is a matter for the Police Authority to assess. Of course, it is obvious that the police should be present throughout the country. The financial contribution announced and other measures taken by the government provide the basis for this.
i-ac00059349199ef8-540	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The basis of my interpellation is an extensive problem with the understaffing of police officers in Jämtland lä n. This is highlighted and confirmed by a police chief, Jimmy Evans, in Strömsund Municipality. The same police officer also describes that Strömsund Municipality has six police officers in external service. Then we should remember that this is a municipality that is just as large as Skåne to the surface. So there are six police officers in the big area. Then you also understand the challenges and insecurity aspect in Jämtland County and in this municipality. The relevant need is 8-15 police officers, and this is highlighted in the directives to the police organisation. So there is a huge gap between the existing number of police officers and the number that it should be. There is a great deal of concern about inadequate resources in the county in general. The anxiety in Strömsund's municipality is just one example of the frustration that exists in Jämtland County. Of course, there are also parts that have developed in the right direction. That goes to the police, and we can see it in some areas as well. However, the inadequate staffing is the very serious issue in this context. This is not a new phenomenon. I had this debate with the minister's predecessor Anders Ygeman a year ago. At the time, he expressed that Statskontoret had several initiatives to strengthen the police's contact with the citizens and that the local police force should be given priority. From this we see little impact today. Hence my interpellation and ask the Minister. I am aware of the major challenges that we really have in the big cities of Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö. But the whole of Sweden must live, and there are expectations of it among the taxpayers we have in our county. Madam President, I would like The Minister replies that the government invests a certain number of billions and then in a venture to 2024. Evens and wrongdoers are not particularly reassured by the relatively short non-responsiveness. The question was not from a national perspective but from a county perspective and was not about what it should look like in 2024, where it is seven years, but about how it is today. The Minister says in his reply that the number of persons admitted to police training has doubled. The fact is that 900 police officers left in 2017 and 500 seats are empty at police training today. The Moderates propose SEK 3 000 more per month to the police, 10,000 more police employees by 2025, better equipment and harsher penalties for housing offences, gun crimes, sexual crimes and thank you against blue-light personnel. In addition, we want to increase the possibilities for camera surveillance in crime-prone locations and strategically important places without a permit requirement. The Moderates also spend 3.4 billion more than the government in the period 2018 – 2020 to increase security in the country. My question to the Minister is this: what measures does the Minister intend to take to resolve the very serious situation of insecurity that is greater than ever in the country and in our county? Not least in rural areas, if we take that perspective, there is great insecurity.
i-ac00059349199ef8-550	Madam President, I would like There are no shortcuts in this. If you want to increase the number of police officers, there are a number of measures that you have to take. The working conditions of police officers need to be improved. Saila Quicklund mentioned wage agreements and the issue of wages. Only 14 days ago, the Police Authority and the Police Association signed one of the speeches that give police officers significantly higher wage increases than the other groups. So the so-called mark, which is otherwise what wages are set from, is substantially above. In addition, special efforts are being made for police officers in external service. It is also strong, that is to say that the big money is actually going out this year. It is possible to sign such an agreement because the government has gone in with so much money to the Police Authority. The investment, from 2017 to 2018, is the largest in 20 years. It is 2 billion this year, 2.3 billion the following year and 2.8 billion in 2020. No government, regardless of party color, has increased police resources in the way we are doing right now. Improving working conditions is also crucial for re-recruiting police officers who have left the profession. Saila Quicklund mentions the number 900. That is the total number of those who have resigned and those who retire. About half of them, between 400 and 500, have retired. But another 400 - 500 have resigned. Some of those who have left have gone to Säpo. They change, as it were, authority. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is to be able to offer good working conditions if you are to recruit police officers who have left the profession. These conditions are now in place, because we have made sure that we spend so much money. There is also a need to educate more people. Now, twice as many police officers are trained as just a few years ago. When we took over government power, the rate of training was 600 - 700 police per year. It's way too low. If you consider that 400 to 500 police officers per year go into the pensi on is a training rate of 600 police officers all get low. We've doubled it now. In 2017, the hill was new police students at 1,300, and they will expire in 2019. Saila Quicklund says it is far to 2024. I agree. However, it is not very far until 2019. And that's when the big hill, which started training for 2017, will go out. We will also need to increase the pace of education. This is why we will start a new education in Malmö from spring 2019. We are also starting a new education in West Sweden. I think we need to go up from 1 300 to about 2 000 per year in order to achieve the objective of 2024, that is, 10 000 police workers, overall. Of them, perhaps 6,000 to 7,000 will be police officers. When the expansion takes place, it must benefit the whole of Sweden, both the big cities and the countryside. I am convinced that the Police Authority will make a fair distribution in this respect. But it's the Police Authority that makes those assessments. It's not something the government controls. In the case of R egion n word, which Jämtland is part of, the number of police officers has not decreased there, overall. On the contrary, both the number of police officers and the number of civilian employees in the police organisation have increased there in 2017. Region north also has the highest clearance rate throughout Sweden and is making more and more investigations, which is very positive.
i-ac00059349199ef8-559	Madam President, I would like Let me refer to some facts and examples of how the police organization has worked in the county after moving the LKC from Östersund to Umeå. A number of incidents, a lot of very serious ones, have occurred. For example, police officers have been directed to the wrong county, wrong addresses and the wrong city. Due to geographical ignorance at RLC in Umeå, patrols in Östersund have been sent to Örnsköldsvik – it is 300 km between those places. They've also sent a patrol to an address in Krokom that doesn't exist. So we are talking about emergency calls. A suspected illegal driving was called out, and the patrol was referred to the railway crossing in Östersund, but it was the railway crossing in Brunflo. It's about 15 km there. A 13-year-old girl was shot at. It's a clear priority 1 case. When the police were alerted, the reporter was told that there were no police officers to send to the scene. These are terrible scenarios. During the summer season last year, there was a police patrol in an area of 300 miles [450 km]. A 45-mile police patrol is totally unacceptable. In Strömsund municipality, the police are dependent for much of the year on a patrol going from Östersund to Strömsund. Then let's know that Gäddede is about 200 miles from Östersund. The county talks a lot about the need for driving times. There is therefore a need for a kind of calculation model that takes account of the distances in sparsely populated areas. I would like the Minister to comment on what he thinks about it. An equivalent service throughout the country is entirely relevant in this context. Rural areas also need resources. I have previously raised the importance of well-functioning police flights. Pension departures are waiting, and planned training of pilots has been cancelled earlier. It takes three years to train a pilot. The police helicopter could not go to the tragic bus accident in Sveg, as the minister will remember. It takes 30 minutes by helicopter to Sveg, and it was a very serious accident. Instead they had to connect Stockholm, from where it took an hour and a half. It is a question of not being fully staffed by the police helicopter in the region. It has a helicopter for 60 million, but it has a sub-manage that means that you cannot target the efforts in an optimal way. The police flight is extremely important in order to be able to act quickly in view of the great distances. Much of the discussion here is about rich politics and the National Police Organisation. Does the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs understand rural conditions? Is what I'm describing now known to the minister? How does the Minister feel about what I have mentioned, such as having a 45-mile police patrol, saying in the case of shootings that you cannot come because you do not have patrols, mistakes due to geographical ignorance and so on? The Minister will be happy to answer that.
i-ac00059349199ef8-568	Madam President, I would like I regularly visit police organizations throughout the country, both in the big city and in sparsely populated areas. Last time I was in Sollefteå and Kramfors. Before that, last spring, I actually visited the police in Östersund. Then I got a pretty good picture of how they work with their investigative activities. As I mentioned, the North Region has the highest clearance rate in all of Sweden, which I think is good. It has also managed to reverse the trend in making more investigations in 2017. It is the first time since 2009 that it is starting to turn up again. The police are delivering more investigations. There's the North Region really good. More violent crimes, more vandalism offences, more drug offences and more traffic offences were investigated than in 2016. That's where you've seen a rise. It is clear that the conditions are completely different in different parts of the country. But regardless of where you live in Sweden, you must have access to good police operations. It cannot be mismanaged in such a way that far too few police officers are trained, for example, so that after a few years it is discovered that the educational effort has had a too small a dimension. That is exactly the situation we took up. Thus, the old government trained 600 — 700 police officers per year, and 400 — 500 police officers retire. Everyone understands that you can't have that margin. It's way too small. Then the pace of education must increase. Of course, efforts must also be made to improve working conditions so that people remain. And you have to be able to re-recruit those who have left the profession. The government is now working on all that. However, there is a time aspect here. It takes two and a half years to train a cop. This means that the people we brought in will expire in 2019. But then, as I said, 1,300 new cops go out. I am convinced that they will be distributed in such a way that there will be more police officers in the countryside, in the more sparsely populated parts of Sweden and in the areas where very large areas are to be covered. But then you have to be prepared to really make that bet. Then you can't skimp. Then one cannot say in one breath that you should reduce the tax by 100 billion and in the next breath say that we have to invest in the police too. That equation doesn't add up. You have to decide, Madam President, whether you are prepared to invest in health care, school, care for the elderly, childcare, everything else in welfare and the police or whether it is other priorities instead. If you prioritise the police, there will also be more police officers, but if you prioritise other things, then you risk having fewer police officers and less development. My question to Saila Quicklund, who knows the background, is: If it is the case that the Moderates want more police officers in Strömsund, why did you train so few?
i-ac00059349199ef8-578	Madam President, I would like The minister referred to the alliance government. Most people are probably more interested in what is happening here and now and in the future. I have just described where the Moderates stand on this issue. We spend 3.4 billion more than the government on security issues. The minister said it takes time to educate. In fact, 500 seats are empty, and that is worrying. Before we conclude this debate, I would like to say that I pay tribute to the police officers working in our region. But we have to listen when they say that there is a serious problem with understaffing. Solving your crimes is more about administrative services. The insecurity factor remains when we don't have police officers to send out in the event of serious incidents. It is a year ago that future solutions from the government and the police organization were presented. But we haven't seen much of the positive effects in our county in terms of security. People feel insecure. We also see this in the opinion polls that deal with what should be ranked as the most important issue. There, security is extremely central. The whole of Sweden should live, it's important. But that is not the case today. We Moderates have proposals that can solve the most difficult challenges. I sincerely hope for the sake of the country that we will have the opportunity to stage them after the next elections. I will follow up on these questions. They are extremely central. It is important that the rural perspective is always highlighted and not just the national issues. We will certainly have reason to debate this again. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-ac00059349199ef8-587	Madam President, I would like Firstly, on the North Region, it can be said that the number of police officers and civilian employees has not decreased in 2017 compared to 2016. On the contrary, they increased slightly. Secondly, more police investigations are being carried out than in the past. This is not just about administrative services, it is simply about police and civilians doing a good job. They're investigating more crimes than they did before. That means more complete investigations to the prosecutor. It concerns violent crime, vandalism, drug crime and traffic crime. This is an excellent piece of police work. Thirdly, the North Region has the highest clearance rate in Sweden. That is a good thing, but it must, of course, be better. That is precisely why we are making the efforts we are now making: 2 billion this year, 2.3 billion in the following year and 2.8 billion in 2020. It is the biggest investment that any government, regardless of party color, has made in 20 years. But it is also a matter of choice. If you are going to continue with this, you have to understand that in one breath you cannot say that you are now making the big investments and saying in the next breath that you have promised off major tax cuts. I can't. You have to choose. Otherwise, Madam President, you are in danger of being in exactly the same position as you did in 2014, i.e. you have to go out to foreign bankers and borrow money because you ended up in a large deficit. That's the way politics is sometimes. You have to give priority to what you think is most important. This government prioritises welfare, efforts to fight crime and the police above all else. That is why we can now account for the large additions of resources. Thanks to this, 1 300 police officers will be released in 2019. I am sure that you will also receive a supplement in Strömsund and Jämtland.
i-ac00059349199ef8-593	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me what I intend to do concretely to improve the working situation of police officers. She has also asked me how the Political Authority's regulation letter for 2018 takes the height to enable the organisation to carry out its activities on the basis of actual circumstances. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. The government wants a strong justice system and an accessible police officer. To achieve this, the government has provided resources to the Police Authority and taken measures to create better conditions for both police and civilian employees to carry out their work efficiently and with a good working environment. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 by 2024. In order to increase the number of police employees, the government has therefore proposed and announced an addition to the Swedish Police Authority of approximately SEK 9.8 billion during the period 2017– 2020. The government has also doubled the number admitted to police training in relation to the previous government. In 2014, 689 students were admitted to police training, and last year 1 398 were adopted. The police authority has also been commissioned by the government to launch a recruitment campaign and to investigate the conditions for starting police training in two new locations in the country. The Government then decided in December that Malmö University will be one of the higher education institutions that will also conduct police training. The Police Authority has also been commissioned, together with the trade unions, to step up work on the organisational, physical and social work environment, as well as the workload and vulnerability to threats and violence. In addition, the Police Authority will develop a short- and long-term strategic plan for more development and career paths within the Agency. Through the 2018 regulation letter, the Government further tightens the requirements for the Police Authority to follow up and realise the intentions decided by a unanimous parliament through the reorganisation of the police. Law enforcement and prevention should be based on local problem images, priority should be given to work in vulnerable areas, the ability to investigate crimes, and in particular serious violent and sexual crimes, should be strengthened. The Agency shall also account for the extent to which there are equal opportunities to receive emergency assistance from the police across the country. In conclusion, I can assure AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that the government is working intensively to create the conditions that have been lacking for the organization to be able to carry out its activities based on actual conditions.
i-ac00059349199ef8-600	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. I have been following this debate during the day, and now I was going to start by talking about economics. When you listen to the Social Democrats, it's like there's a long thread through reality where everything is constant. When talking about different efforts to do different things in our society, one should appropriately stimulate an economy that is in decline while saving in good times. I am well aware that during the alliance government it was a financial crisis when one went into a recession, and then it stimulated. The money invested could be invested in policemen or in reducing taxes. In the end, it led to people working more and getting the wheels running. Then you also got more money. Then we can include RUT deductions and other measures that were taken during this time. The minister has previously been involved in the number of police officers. This was also stated in the answer: a total of 689 students were admitted to police training in 2014. Last year, 1 398 were adopted. It's no wonder the numbers look like that. We can also back up the tape and talk about the 90s when you had brake and stop the police. Perhaps even then or earlier one should have stimulated. We can also talk about the growing number in 2008, which the Alliance Government was behind. In the spring, 1500 attended the Police College in Solna. In the same autumn there were 1,700 students, and in the spring of 2009 there were 1,600. So they managed to take a lot of action here in the country although it was a time when the world had huge problems, and Sweden did well. When we've finished talking about these numbers, I feel they get nagging. I don't know if they lead to so much when we're going to talk about the police themselves and the Swedish people, who are probably thinking about what's going to happen between here and there. It takes some time to train people– they don't get on duty right away. There's a gap in people now. If you talk to the police, they say other speeches than what is being proposed from politics, and these numbers are considerably higher than the historical efforts that are now being talked about. Reporting is about crimes and how tough it is for organizations here and now. It is here and now that the situation needs to be resolved so that the crimes can be cleared up. In both today's Helsingborg Dagblad and Sydsvenskan you can read that the concern for crime is increasing, that individuals are exposed to crime and that the herbicide for the police has decreased to 55 per cent from 64 per cent two years ago. In vulnerable areas, we hear that people do not dare to testify, that it is tough for the police to work in these areas and that it is also tough to divide their work between breaking up to reinforce out against clearing up crimes and ensuring that people are judged. So you go from different parts and will investigate crimes while you are needed out there. You have to start work that can't be finished but is piled up, and then you have to start over. In its response, the Government states that it should work to intensify work on the organisational, physical and social working environment. There are a lot of points here that tell us what the police are going to do. I was thinking, when I come back in my second speech, about some that are affecting the police right now, and that is public procurement.
i-ac00059349199ef8-612	Madam President, I would like Our ambition is to expand the police organization. We're going to have 10,000 more police employees by 2024. I would think that of the 10 000 we are talking about perhaps 6 000 – 7 000 police officers and 3 000 – 4 000 civilian workers. At least that is the distribution as it stands at the moment: one third of civilians and two thirds of police officers. It is the Police Authority that will decide which competence is most needed, but I think we will land there somewhere. In order to support this, we are now implementing the largest resource addition to the police in 20 years. No government, regardless of party colour – bourgeois or Social Democratic – has gone in with as much money to the police as we do now: 2 billion this year, 2.3 billion next year and 2.8 billion the following year. The 2 billion that we are joining this year is actually more than the police wanted for 2018. In this way, with this money, we can keep more policemen by improving working conditions. It has just come into place a wage agreement that is the best in the labour market and which is significantly above the so-called label for other groups in terms of wage development. Special efforts can also be made on police officers in vulnerable areas and on police officers in external service. This is a big deal, that is, the big money is already coming this year. It is necessary to have a good wage agreement in place. The parties have worked it out together, as I think we should do in the Swedish labour market model. We need to re-recruit. Those who have left the profession should come back to the police, and then we should be able to offer good working conditions. We should also – and we do – greatly increase the rate of police training. We are now training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did in their day. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson made a reference to previous discussions about the economy, and so she raised why it was so bad until 2014. We had to take up a large deficit that she said was due to the financial crisis. But it was 2008, not 2014. In all the years after 2008, we see a structurally growing deficit in the Swedish economy, and it results from the very large tax cuts that were brought forward: SEK 140 billion was reduced with the tax. The police received 5 billion, but the tax cuts were 140 billion. That's the explanation. The major deficits that Anders Borg left behind are possibly an explanation for the low educational rate during your last term of office, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, from 2010–2011 onwards. 600 - 700 police officers each year went out with you in the last few years. It is far too low a rate of education if we are to manage to keep the police force we had in the long term, but it is even worse if we intend to ensure that the police force grows. Then you have to go up a lot higher. Now, as I said, we have 1,300 police officers who started their police training in 2017, and they will be out in 2019. You gave priority to tax cuts, quite simply, and we give priority to police officers. That's how simple the relationship is right now. The reorganisation of the police has been completed. We have more criminal law tools in place than ever before. We have more camera coverage than ever before. We are now in a better position to combat organised crime than we had in the past.
i-ac00059349199ef8-621	Madam President, I would like I will not dwell on the economy very much, but I will still say that it was the deepest financial crisis since the 1930s. Those who want to can read the economics historically. We must say that, despite the development of society, we are moving forward and that more things are happening. If we had stopped and gone back it would have been really bad, especially as we have one of the strongest booms in a long time now, where you burn money but it ticks on, Morgan Johansson. Then there's no one to the next recession. Now I got this said anyway. The police have made purchases of service on their cars. They have done so in such a way that they have 4 workshops for one car brand and 26 - 27 for the other car brand. To their aid they have had the finance department, which has held on to it. They have also used an expert who is serviceable on cars, which is excellent, for that should be the case. The only thing you forgot was the organization, because what you haven't done is find out how the police work, when they need their service and how they're going to get the whole organization rigged to work, especially with all the problems that exist and that we've discussed in several debates. What is happening now is that a police car may have to get away a number of miles to be serviced. Perhaps a couple of policemen are allowed to drive away, and they discover that they cannot get the service that was intended because something has happened. It could be a spare part that's missing or something else that's causing trouble. This means that the police have to get out of there, and then they can go by taxi if they are in a place where they can't get through, perhaps in Jämtland. It's gonna cost money. Otherwise, they may be allowed to travel by train or bus, and this will take up logistics as well as resources and money. In the past, you have been able to turn in your car the day before the work itself, and then it is the principle of proximity that applies for it to work. Now we do not have the principle of proximity. You can imagine a scenario where civil servants do this instead, but then you end up in a situation where a civilian employee cannot drive a police car, because what happens then? For example, if you get out on the E4 and there is an accident, civil servants must not stay with the car. Those who stand there will look and wonder what happens when the police pass by without stopping because it is not possible. The same is true of crime. You can't have civilian employees with guns, and they can't stay for crimes. Police resources will therefore be used to service cars. There would have been a need for mature purchasing processes. What is so important in this and that lies with the Minister for Justice's colleague in government, the Minister for Civil Affairs, is to have procurements that are in order and that there is proper governance in the government's regulatory letters. The government referred to what should be in them. Then we can get these processes in order, and the organizations can become so mature that they do the right things. While everything else is going to happen and we're talking about money-- because we're going back to money, as well as to which governments have done the least and most and so on-- it's ticking out money elsewhere because you've made the wrong purchases. If you look at the whole queue and the budget you see that 20% goes to expenditure and bnp. This could be reduced to 10% if it were done properly. There the state should go before municipalities and county councils. Then we can benefit very well from the money available. The Government may comment on this. I understand if he cannot comment on the individual procurement, but it is very important to control this in the regulatory letter.
i-ac00059349199ef8-631	Madam President, I would like I control a lot of things, but I don't control the service agreements for the police cars. Actually, I don't. It's a matter for the agency. It is clear that I can obtain information on this procurement. We certainly agree that agreements must be put in place that work in the police's daily life, so to speak. It should not cost more than it needs, nor should it steal time from the police. But this is a typical question of authority and not really a question of government, nor a question of parliament. However, I am happy to obtain information on this particular procurement. Madam President, I would like Otherwise, this interpellation is about a greater perspective, that is, the overall situation of the police and how we can cope better with the fight against crime. I have presented measures taken by this government. It is the largest resource addition that has taken place in 20 years. We have taken steps to keep police officers and improve working conditions, and wage agreements are now in place. We have made redeployment efforts, and this is now a massive increase in the rate of training. There are now twice as many police officers as during Moderate time. I believe that this is extremely important in order to achieve the objective we have set ourselves, that is to say that there will be 10 000 more employees in the police organisation by 2024. This is not really enough. I still have to ask Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson to comment on something I heard last week. I listened to the party leader debate where Ulf Kristersson said something like the violence is here to stay, that violent crime is here to stay. I bounced when I heard it. In my ears, it sounds like an extremely abandoned attitude. My position is exactly the opposite: society can break organised crime if we make the right efforts. Mr. Old President! If you ask the police on the ground, they give very clear directives on what needs to be done. They say they need to be more. Then they say they need better tools. It can be about criminal law, it can be about camera surveillance and everything else that we do. But they also say another important thing: Keep in mind that it is not just about us. It is also about the fact that school must work for young people, that leisure activities must work and that social services must work. Instead, if social services do not work, the recruitment of these criminal gangs risks continuing. In fact, not much has been won then. I am convinced that if we concentrate on a policy that involves greater efforts in law enforcement, police activities and all that we are talking about now, combined with social efforts to break new recruits for the criminal gangs, we will be able to uproot this organised crime with its roots. Then Ulf Kristersson will prove completely wrong. The violence is not here at all to stay. On the contrary, we can reverse this trend.
i-ac00059349199ef8-638	Mr. Old President! I thought I'd stick to these purchases. The Minister of Justice said that he will take with him what has been said about the importance of making good purchases in the right way for the operations to function well. For two years, the police will be stuck in the procurement of car services. This means that they have to drive a certain number of miles extra. The police will have staff set aside for this unnecessarily when it could have worked in a different way if the contractor had made an inventory from the start. This does not apply to those who do the procurement, who are professionals at it, but to the person who is responsible. What is flawed within the state, and also in municipalities and county councils, is that a process for making purchases is lacking. It is strange that this works in the private sector. You know that you have to do a market analysis to see how the business works and what it needs before you do a procurement. Here you have only looked at some, and that is the service of the cars themselves. But the whole organization was forgotten and what it means to spend time, resources, money and logistics on this. It would be very good if the government could look at the content of what should be done when purchasing and talk to the Minister for Civil Affairs about how important it is that the regulatory letters be designed in such a way that this is built in so that the authorities can deliver in this part. You can also look at Norway and see how they work with these purchases. Then I think it's ticking on with less money and resources in a situation where it's very tough in the police business, which we've been into. They're trying to do a very good job, considering what's going on. I cannot stress enough how important this is. Instead of adding 20 percent of bnp, we can add 10 percent of bnp to get right with the purchases. There's a lot of money to bring home.
i-ac00059349199ef8-643	Mr. Old President! If I had known that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson had intended to concentrate only on the procurement issue, I would have made sure to obtain information on this part. But the interpellation is much wider than that. It is about the police's work situation as such – the resource issue, the number of police officers, how to fight crime and how to prioritise. That is why she has received such an answer. But it is clear that, as I said, I can request information on this individual procurement. But I will also say that it is not in regulatory letters that we control individual procurements. That's not how it works. Here it is just a matter of ensuring that you have the skills that you need to have in place. It is clear that you should have the service that allows you to also function effectively as an authority. I don't think we have any other idea about that. But I'd love to take a closer look at it. The questions asked by the interpellier are: What does the Minister intend to do specifically to improve the police's working situation? I've answered that. We intend to ensure that the police organization is expanded. There will be 10,000 more employees by 2024. For this we set aside resources. We are now increasing the resources to the police in a way that no one has done in 20 years, regardless of party color. It is about keeping police officers, improving working conditions, making recruitment efforts and increasing the rate of training. I also said that the police are not everything if we are to break the negative trend in some places, but then we must also look to the whole of society to be able to make social efforts, for example, to break the new recruitment into criminal gangs. If we do both – law enforcement and social efforts – we will actually be able to reverse the development that we have seen in some areas.
i-ac00059349199ef8-647	Mr. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me a number of questions about the work of the national centre against violent extremism. The Centre against violent extremism at the Crime Prevention Council was established on 1 January 2018. The tasks of the Centre are provided by the Authority's instructions. The Government clarifies that the Centre will contribute to the development, coordination and efficiency of prevention, support for professionals and promote knowledge-based actions. The work should be done from primarily criminal policy points of view. One of the main tasks of the Centre will be to support professionals on issues of violent extremism. Brå is now building a support and advisory function that will start on 1 April. Brå also has the task of reporting by 29 March on how enhanced support for individual-related measures could be met. This includes explaining what support the Centre's activities can contribute. The Government decided in December 2017 that Anna Lekvall will be the head of the centre until an ordinary manager takes office. Recruitment of an ordinary manager is ongoing. I expect to be able to introduce the new boss shortly. With the establishment of the Centre, the Government strengthens the conditions for a more effective, coordinated and long-term prevention of violent extremism.
i-ac00059349199ef8-652	Mr. Old President! I thank Minister Morgan Johansson. The Liberals put this interpellation on the work against violent extremism, not least in the light of criticism – the strong criticism, I would say, Mr President-in-Office of the Age – against how the government and Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke have dealt with these issues. These include the national coordinator against violent extremism, and the fact that we were repeatedly informed or misplaced in the debates of how this important function has worked. It also concerns the consequences of the operation and, not least, how the national functions have contributed to the fact that municipalities, social services and other activities have been able to work to prevent radicalisation – but also, if there are so-called returning terrorists from the Islamic State, how the state and the municipalities' administrations have dealt with such problems. It is no better, Mr President-in-Office, that the Security Service reported last summer that we have at least 2 000 people in Sweden who sympathise with violent Islamist extremism and that it poses the greatest threat to our democracy. Therefore, we were very disappointed and surprised this summer when the government suddenly announced that the function and responsibility for the work against extremism and radicalisation in Sweden will be placed under the Crime Prevention Council – an authority that in its response to the government announced that it did not consider itself best suited to handle this type of tasks. We in the Liberals proposed to set aside the 35 million that are budgeted under the Police Authority – to set up a centre and use the infrastructure the police have. Even though the Security Service has the ultimate responsibility for protecting our democracy, much of its activity, analysis and operational capacity is based on the functioning of the police. That is why we think it would have been more appropriate, and not least effective, to put this under the authority of the police. Now the function has been officially established, I would say, under the Crime Prevention Council, Mr. Age President. I have asked three questions to the government, and I believe that I have received an answer: who is currently the head of this important centre. That name has been given to me in the Government's reply; it cannot be sought out. There is nothing on the Centre's website and no contact details for people, but there is a collection number and a single e-mail function as a contact. I would like to emphasise what the government actually admits here, namely that this is an activity under construction. Therefore, I do not think I have received an answer to the question of how this centre, which is now in fact responsible from 1 January, should, for example, be able to enter operationally. This was, of course, the criticism of the previous national coordinator's administrative structure: that municipalities, social services and teachers in schools did not feel that they received sufficient support locally in their work against extremism. That is why these questions are important, and I hope to receive answers this evening.
i-ac00059349199ef8-659	Mr. Old President! The first thing to note is that this government has taken more measures against terrorism than any government before it. For example, the terrorist trips, i.e. the trips to Syria and Iraq, pointed out in 2013 – 2014. Nevertheless, the Alliance Government took no action whatsoever to criminalise this. Instead, we had to do it. When we entered Rosenbad in October 2014 and asked the officials if the Alliance government did anything to criminalise terrorist travel, we were told that there was not a single piece of paper written. There were no missions from the then political leadership. Now it is criminalised, and we have also done it criminally to receive training for terrorism. We have extended the criminalisation of terrorist financing and much more. We've reinforced the police and Säpo. This year we are going in with the biggest investment in the police for 20 years. We have also expanded Säpo, and both the input capacity and the equipment have improved over these years. We have also increased camera surveillance; this term of office has marked a breakthrough for camera surveillance in crime-prone locations. We have also tightened the penalties in a wide range of respects. Among other things, lastly, we have tightened the penalties for serious weapons offences and the handling of explosives. We have a better cooperation between the Swedish Security Service and the Migration Agency, where you look in the flow of asylum seekers to find possible risk individuals. It's much better now than it was just a year ago. We also have a better exchange of information between Säpo, Must and FRA than we had before. There is also a wide range of measures under way. We are to have in place a crime of participation in the field of terrorism. We're going to have classified data reading, which is on its way. We are reviewing the confidentiality rules between the social services and the police, an assignment to be reported in August, and Säpo will have extended access to FRA's signal intelligence after a preliminary investigation has been opened. What we have done in relation to the Centre against violent extremism is that we are permanentising our activities. The bourgeois government set up a temporary committee, a coordinator, but now we have a permanent activity at the Crime Prevention Council. It targets all three extremist environments, both Islamist and left-wing and right-wing. It does so from a criminal policy point of view. The Crime Prevention Council has long experience of developing and supporting crime prevention work in the municipalities; it has been part of the agency's mission for at least twenty years, I would say. In fact, I was involved in building up local crime prevention work once 20 years ago, when I was President of Brå. The police could have been an alternative, but the fact is that the police were not very positive about this either in their referral. When we had to choose between the police and the Crime Prevention Council, we chose Brå because Brå has worked for a long time to help and support municipalities in building up crime prevention activities. It was a natural choice. In the interpellation, Haddad doesn't actually ask who's boss, but that's the answer he got now. However, he asks in the interpellation why it does not appear in the regulation letter. That's the question he's asking. The point is that the regulation letter is valid from one year to another. When we start new activities, we regulate them and give instructions in a specific instruction to the new authority or centre, and it has Roger Haddad here. The next time he asks where it is controlled and regulated, he can only google the instruction for violent extremism center, and he gets up those tasks. As shown in the instructions, the Centre must provide needs-oriented support to the municipalities. This should be done with guidance from, among other things, how the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County does when it comes to helping to deal with the problem of honour crimes in many municipalities.
i-ac00059349199ef8-668	Mr. Old President! The government won't answer my questions. The Government talks about measures against terrorism abroad. I myself have been in both these negotiations with the government, and I know exactly what we have agreed on. But that's not what the interpellation is about at all. This is about domestic extremism and how to counteract, prevent and prevent people becoming extremists and radicalised – not least in the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas in the midst of our society – so that they cannot commit terrorist crimes or, for that matter, travel abroad. It is not about going abroad and committing terrorism, but about the role of the Crime Prevention Council. I've asked the question who's boss, because it wasn't pronounced. We didn't know about it. That is the answer we have received today. We have also asked a question, which I think is relevant, about what requirements the government has in its regulation letter – in its steering document – to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council in 2018. What are the goals and ambitions? What specific tasks have been given that are to be followed up, in the light of the criticism that has been levelled at the former national coordinator, who was under the authority of Minister for Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke? It was the Liberals who last March demanded that the questions be taken from there and transferred to the Department of Justice under the Minister of Justice. This is very positive – we welcome this change. But we cannot have a situation where there is nothing in the government's main governance document for authorities. I still lack an answer to this question. The only thing I could find was under the economic table, i.e. the government allocates SEK 35 million to this purpose. But there was nothing about goals or expectations and nothing specific about reporting back, even though this has a central and important part in Sweden's security policy work. The third question is also relevant, because the support of the national coordinator for social services, schools and the municipal level has not worked. When the government's Minister for Democracy was asked earlier whether it has worked or not, she could not answer whether the national efforts had worked. She could not even account for which municipalities had helped people to jump off a radicalized environment. There have also been criticisms from social services that meet families or people in an extremist environment. In order to be able to leave this environment, they have usually needed operational support – not just general advice from the national level. This was, of course, the purpose of the agreement that I myself had to conclude with the government that we should have both a permanent function and a better operational capacity. There is not a word about it in this interpellation response. I think we can discuss what was done and not done before 2014. It was we who appointed the national coordinator. Nyamko Sabuni and Birgitta Ohlsson, during their time as Minister of State, decided to map both the violent Islamic environment and the other extremist environments. But this issue is about the fact that this spring we actually do not have a functioning national activity – I would like to say this on the basis of the answer that the business will be built up in the spring.
i-ac00059349199ef8-679	Mr. Old President! Of course we have a functioning business. We even have a permanent business. It is not like in your time, Roger Haddad, when it was in temporary committee form. We have a permanent business from 1 January. The competence of the business is gradually being built up. They have 35 million kronor at their disposal and are now recruiting staff. Roger Haddad says he doesn't get answers to his questions. Who is the head of the National Centre against Violent Extremism? I think it would have taken a minimum of googling to find out that the government has appointed Anna Lekvall as manager for so long, until we appoint a permanent manager. At least Roger Haddad is now getting an answer to that question. He also asks how this is reflected in this year's regulatory letter. Again: When you assign a task to a new operation, you do so in the instruction to the Crime Prevention Council. I have this instruction here. As regards what the Centre is going to do, it says: All of this is to be done from the point of view of criminal policy, as we also say. When we evaluate what the Centre is doing, we will do so on the basis of the data it has received. Then we come to the third question – will the new centre be able to enter operationally into cases where the social services of a municipality or the staff of a school suspect a radicalized person? As I said in my introduction, this centre will be able to provide advice and support in these situations, moreover, just as the County Administrative Board in Östergötland does when it comes to problems of honour. We know that for many years there has been a very good operation, where the municipalities have been able to get advice and support when they have ended up in these discussions and situations. Does this mean that someone can take over the exercise of authority itself? If I interpret Roger Haddad's question correctly, he is close to it, and my answer to that question is n not. It is social services that exercise this role of authority. If one were to leave this – if someone else were to take over the exercise of authority – we would end up in very difficult situations. After all, this is about administrative decisions that should be subject to appeal, and then one must know who is responsible in the individual case. We can't go there—it can't be that someone other than social services takes over the authority. But the answer to Roger Haddad's question as to whether one will be able to help in these situations is ja. In fact, this is precisely what the third point of the instruction is about. As I said: Please compare how we work with honour crimes, which we have also done for a long time.
i-ac00059349199ef8-689	Mr. Old President! I note that the Government does not wish to comment further on the issue of regulatory letters. I have read the instructions to this centre and to the crime prevention authorities. My question is about the regulatory letter. It is there that a government tends to tell a specific authority that it wants it to give particular priority to a particular type of issue during this year and that it will require reporting back to the government a number of times a year in particular. There is not a line on this in the regulatory letter. I find this remarkable, given that throughout this term of office the focus has been on Sweden's preparedness for terrorism and Sweden's readiness to work against radicalisation and extremism. The permanentisation of this function was a requirement that emerged during the negotiations with the government. That's why there's a permanent business. Then we could not agree where this permanent function would be. We from the Liberals have proposed that it be under the police precisely because of the problems that exist, not least in terms of capacity and operational capacity. As we approach the sensitive confidentiality issues, the Crime Prevention Council will not be able to intervene and participate actively and operationally in social services and schools. As we stress in our interpellation, it is at local level that the work against extremism must be carried out, and that is where it has the greatest effect. I note that this centre is still in a construction phase. I note that the national coordinator and the entire office have been dismantled since 1 January. I am concerned – there is no operational activity in relation to this important work in the event of a situation happening now.
i-ac00059349199ef8-697	Mr. Old President! I think most people who have listened to this debate understand how hopeless it can sometimes be to debate with Roger Haddad. I feel like he doesn't really want to understand. He barely wants to listen to what I'm saying. He wants a conflict at all costs, and if he does not get a conflict, he deliberately misinterprets or misunderstands something of what I say and makes it happen that we do not do it the way he wants it to be done. He's deliberately conflict-seeking. The Crime Prevention Council is the expert authority we have in preventing crime. It is also the natural place to choose authority. As far as operational intervention is concerned, as I explained, the exercise of authority cannot be taken over by someone else in this sense. Then we're breaking the Social Services Act, and we can't do that. It is the social services that make these decisions, and it is they who are responsible if the decisions are then appealed. On the other hand, you can give support and advice on how to handle this, but you can never take over the exercise of authority. If it's advice and support that Roger Haddad means by the operative, we'll probably agree. But if he means that you should go in and intervene, as he said, I interpret it as taking over decision-making. In fact, it does not work within the framework of current social services legislation. That would completely violate the principles that we have. I have given an example of how the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County works with honor-related crimes. It is a practical advisory and support function in relation to the municipalities. I think that's good. It is also one of the activities that Brå is now going to look at when to solve this task as well. On 29 March we will be asked how a system can be built in order to become more practical.
i-ac00059349199ef8-703	Mr. Old President! Saila Quicklund has asked me how I view situations like Almåsa where forest owners have been threatened with having their forest redeemed and how I intend to act to strengthen the ownership of the country's forest owners. I would like to start by saying that I answered the first question from Saila Quicklund in September 2017, and my opinion has not changed since then. Ownership is constitutionally protected and not challenged by the government. Half of the country's forests are now owned and managed by private forest owners, and forest owners are thus very important for the management of Sweden's forests. Freedom under responsibility means that the individual's ownership of the forest must be protected while the forest owner has an important part in the common responsibility to manage all the values of the forest resource. This shall be done in a long-term sustainable manner in accordance with the ecosystem approach and the requirements resulting from the minimum level of legislation. The two equal objectives of forestry policy and the shared responsibility between society and forest owners require clarity and long-term ownership. The government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested. In the budget proposal, funds were set aside for a national key biotop inventory and an increase of SEK 250 million per year over a ten-year period to offer forest owners with key biotope-rich farming units opportunities for compensation for site protection. The compensation provided in the event of an infringement shall correspond to an estimated market value plus an additional 25 per cent, according to the Expropriation Act. I therefore note that a landowner concerned receives a remuneration exceeding the estimated market value by 25%. For me, it's important that the forest owners don't get caught. The investment is estimated to provide great conservation benefits and increase confidence in the conservation work in the forest. Forestry is one of Sweden's basic industries that together with other economic activities contribute to the country's overall prosperity. Forest policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. There is a need to develop both of these elements. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in the transition to a bio-based society and to phase out fossil energy. The Government considers that the process of developing a national forest programme in dialogue with all forest stakeholders will have an impact on the development of and conditions for forestry. The vision of the forest programme Forest – the green gold is to contribute with jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country as well as to the development of a growing bioeconomy. It will guide us in this. My hope is that the government's combined efforts in the field of forestry, not least through the national forest programme and the efforts to protect forests, will make positive progress towards the equal goals.
i-ac00059349199ef8-708	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. Let me first tell you about Tommy Hegestran d from Jönköping in Småland, who, against his will, got his mountain forest in Lofsdalen in Härjedalen transformed into a nature reserve. Now Tommy is offered 26 million dollars by the state in compensation, which is far from the 72 million he has requested and which he considers the forest to be worth. This case is now before the Land and Environment Court, and it is Kammarkollegiet who has replied that he should receive 26 million. He is just one of the many forest owners around the country who are concerned about the situation. Last year there was also a situation in Almåsa in Krokom's municipality in my county of Jämtland. There the County Administrative Board had plans to forcibly redeem forest land to make a nature reserve. Of course, this also raised the outrage and fears of the 30 forest owners who were present at the meeting. I attended the meeting. It is distressing to see their concern. It's about people and families who have managed their forest land like a child, and now they're going to be forced into redemption. The meeting was attended by County Governor Jöran Hägglund. He expressed the view that no one should have to be forced to sell in the present case. That message was good from time to time, but it also raised reactions and questions as to how far the mandate of governors extends when it comes to decisions on such matters. We see many landowners and entrepreneurs in the green industries in particular, expressing concern that ownership is being eroded. It often happens in small steps, and it is not always perceived as dramatic, but it has led to property ownership now on a sloping plane that is leaning ever more strongly. Examples of this are the Species Protection Regulation, key biotopes or the discussion of enhanced rights of appeal regarding fellings. We Moderates believe that recent developments mean that there is reason to recall the really great efforts made by Sweden's 300 000 forest owners to ensure that we have a functioning forestry, a living countryside and a good environment. Mr. Old President! Ownership is a human right protected both by the form of government and by the European Convention. Ownership includes the right to use the land you own. The principle of freedom under responsibility is required in order for Swedish foresters to have good opportunities to operate and develop their activities. It is therefore important to protect the ownership of Swedish forestry companies, so that they remain strong in international competition. If anything, we Moderates will stand up for and defend. When we hear about the case of Almåsa in Krokom's municipality and about Tommy Hegestrand's case in Härjedalen, I wonder: What does the Minister think about this? Does the Minister for Rural Development understand the concerns that exist in rural areas and in forest owners about what is now happening? If so, what measures should be taken if the Minister understands this?
i-ac00059349199ef8-716	Mr. Old President! Forest owners create many different values in their forests – for outdoor life, the tourism industry and the forest industry. All these values are also important for rural development. I think Mrs Quicklund describes this very well in her interpellation, where she paints the image of Almåsa in Jämtland County. The many different areas also enable us to develop the different industries that I describe, not least tourism and outdoor activities. It is worrying and most unfortunate, I think, with the outrage caused by the authorities in Almåsa. That's not how it's supposed to be. I take this event very seriously and find it difficult to see how the protection of forests under coercion could lead to neither positive development of the local economy nor rural development. I think we need to find models where we can do this in harmony. When forest protection is voluntary, the landowner receives the market value plus 25%. The government has paid out SEK 1.5 billion in 2016. We have increased these appropriations by SEK 250 million per year in the 2018 budget in order to replace forest owners in cases where it is considered necessary to protect areas. Developing the tourism industry is also important. The forest industry is a basic industry for us, but also the tourism industry is developing very positively in our country, not least nature tourism. Tourism's export value has increased by 177 per cent since 2000, and there are huge values in the tourism industry as well. Foreign visitors' consumption amounted to approximately 120 billion in 2016. The tourism industry is therefore something important, not least natural tourism, which is developing. Then the active forestry and forest industry are of course the base of our exports. There are very large values in exports, 125 billion annually. I usually say that the forest and the forest industry have for a long time been what has built up the welfare country of Sweden. A great many jobs have been created in forestry and not least in the forest industry.
i-ac00059349199ef8-722	Mr. Old President! The Minister talks about the level of compensation, but in Tommy Hegestrand's case, this is not the case here. He has a value of 72 million on his forest but will receive 26 million. It shows a little bit of what the problem originates from. I have no doubt the Minister for Rural Development's respect for property rights. But when it comes to the government's position on property rights, the devil usually sits in the details, especially on the question of the right of speech. The Government's budget proposal states that it wants to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, including the creation of a European Environment Agency. through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice. I honestly find it difficult to interpret this wording in a different way from the government wanting to reduce the landowner's ability to dispose of his own land. Further restricting property rights by increasing the possibility of objecting to repercussions is certainly not the way forward. In addition, we see, for example, that the interpretation of the Species Protection Regulation and the Key Biotopes in practice restricts property rights. The Minister's colleague, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog, has announced that there will be no review or amendment of the Species Protection Regulation, although this is requested both by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and by the Swedish Forest Agency. So what do the Moderates want to do? We want to set up a ownership inquiry with a particular focus on the green industries, which is being developed in the motion that my colleagues in the Environment and Agriculture Committee launched last October. There we write, among other things, that the investigation should investigate the status of ownership in Sweden with a particular focus on the green industries, that a historical review should be made and that developments and changes that have affected ownership over time should be highlighted. It is also important that the work undertaken by the Alliance Government to develop a national forestry programme continues. We have noted that the Red-Green Government has chosen to continue this work. That is a good thing, and it is of great importance that we continue in the same spirit. Our desire with a so-called national forest programme is for it to affirm economic, social and environmental values. It shall also aim to further contribute to the development of a sustainable society and a growing bio-based economy. In addition, a broad approach should be taken to create, with sustainable farming, a basis for more jobs based on the forest. Nevertheless, I have to repeat the question to the Minister for Rural Development: what is the government doing to strengthen the ownership that is a fundamental foundation for the country's over 300 000 forest owners? Can he answer anything more concrete than what was previously presented in the answer?
i-ac00059349199ef8-729	Mr. Old President! The advice over your own forest is very important for you to have long-term ownership and also be able to develop your business around the forest. That property right must be respected and is constitutionally protected. Then there is uncertainty as to what compensation should apply in case of rejection of felling in mountain forests. This ambiguity actually arose when the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court fell in February 2014. It established a different remuneration from that which had taken place in the past. I do not know about the other individual cases that Saila Quicklund relates to. I don't remember the name – Tommy anything. If it is mountain-side forest that is at stake, I can say that the decision not to use mountain forest is valid for a five-year period and not forever. But since I do not know this particular case, it is very difficult for me to comment on it. Compensation is the subject of legal proceedings before the Land and Environment Court. They are also investigated by the Swedish Forest Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and Kammarkollegiet. For me as a minister, it is very important that we get clear rules on the remuneration and the levels of compensation. But the government has to wait for the ongoing legal and administrative proceedings. I cannot stand as a minister to say that it should be this or that, because then I would exceed my powers. I have a great understanding of the frustration that many owners of mountain forest can feel as this is happening right now. But as long as the issue of compensation is not settled in the court that is currently dealing with it and as long as the government dialogues are ongoing, I do not want to go into this. Once this has been corrected, we may have to review the legislation. We don't know yet. But it is important that we protect property rights. It should not in any way be made more difficult, but should be respected.
i-ac00059349199ef8-734	Mr. Old President! We cannot stress enough the importance of the Swedish forestry industry for the Swedish economy. Sweden is the third largest exporting country in terms of paper, pulp and wood products, and the value is SEK 125 billion. It is an industry that employs over 100 000 people in the country. We Swedes have a special relationship with the forest. We live in a country that consists of two thirds of forest. For those of us who live in a forest county, that band is particularly clear. Of course, Swedish forests should be protected, both for growth and for the environment. That is also why we are concerned that forest ownership is being eroded and that the forestry industry is being threatened, much because of the policy of the current government. Managing the forest is also a prerequisite for us to be able to meet the climate challenges we face. A forest that is not cared for and managed does not grow properly and is less effective in combating climate change. Forest issues are extremely central, and the forest is an important basic industry in my home county and other counties. I will follow up on the work of the government and how you will deal with the ownership issue. We will certainly meet in some debate in the future. Thank you for this time.
i-ac00059349199ef8-739	Mr. Old President! I would like to remind both the interpeller and the audience that the legislation on mountain forests was put in place by the Alliance Government in 2010. That is the legislation that prevails today. I cannot, as I said here before, go in and make judgments in the legal proceedings that are going on or enter into the government discussions that are going on. It is possible that we need to review the legislation. Let's see what you find out. It is very important that we protect the forest. It is true, as the honourable Member here says, that our forest exports are the third largest in the world in terms of pulp and sawn products. The government sees a huge potential also in industrial wood construction that can be developed and become an export product. We see an opportunity in bio-based fuels, plastics, composite materials and textiles that can come out of the forest. The use of forest raw materials is growing with the development of technology. It is very important for us to become a fossil-free society. The Government has the ambition that in 2045 Sweden will become an entirely fossil-free country and perhaps the first in the world. We have that possibility because we have so much forest. 70 per cent of Sweden's surface is covered by forest. An important part of the work is the national forestry programme that we are now conducting in broad dialogue. I hope we can achieve that.
i-ac00059349199ef8-744	Mr. Old President! Johan Hultberg has asked me how I feel about the fact that owners of mountain forest are not granted intrusive compensation and what measures I intend to take to clarify the legislation on mountain forest in order to ensure that decisions on felling are made in an appropriate, effective and legally secure way. Rejuvenation of mountain forest requires permission from Skogsstyrelsen. If a felling is incompatible with interests that are of significant importance for the conservation of nature or culture in accordance with Section 18 of the Forest Conservation Act, the Forest Board may not grant permission to felling. When an application for a permit is rejected, this means that the property owner's advice over the forest land is restricted. This, in turn, may give the right to an infringer's allowance. The level of remuneration is determined by the size of the breach of the council and shall correspond to the resulting decrease in the market value of the property. The question of compensation to landowners who have not been authorised to harvest mountain forest is currently being examined in court. The Swedish Forest Board investigates to what extent the decision not to give permission for felling in mountain forest limits the advice. Clarifying the limitation is important in order to determine the level of compensation for the infringement. This means that while the Swedish Forest Agency is investigating the issue and court review is ongoing, the handling of other cases and the payment of any compensation may be delayed. I am keen that we have clear rules on compensation that take ownership into account and are appropriate for both the environment and production. I follow this issue and await ongoing court review and the Forests Board's investigation of the issue.
i-ac00059349199ef8-750	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It may be a little bit a favourite in replay of the debate that was recently with my colleague Saila Quicklund from Jämtland. This shows the great commitment that we Moderates have to ownership and the forest. It is our green gold that forms the basis for a great many jobs and businesses in our country. It is also an important part of the construction of the future sustainable Sweden that is fossil-free, which the Minister was in on, and bio-based. Then we have to use the forest. It is an opportunity that we Moderates safeguard both in principle and on the basis of the fact that it means a great deal to our economy. Mr. Old President! I'll give some background to the question of the mountain forest. It extends from Dalarna in the south along the mountain chain all the way up to the Finnish border in Tornedalen in the Minister's own county of Norrbotten. There are also some areas further east that are also classified as mountain-closed according to their altitudes. Overall, the mountain forest represents as much as 2.3 million hectares. Today, more than 50 percent of the mountain forest is formally protected. For the part that is not formally protected there are special rules that regulate how the mountain forest can be used. The Minister was in his response to what kind of rules they are. It is simply a question of applying for a permit as a forest owner in order to be allowed to carry out rejuvenating felling. It may seem to be a lot of bureaucracy. However, it is a system that has worked relatively well until recently. In the case that forest owners have not been authorised to carry out felling, the Swedish Forest Board has been able to pay compensation to the relevant forest owners on its own initiative at 125 per cent of the market value. In that case, full compensation for the market value and also compensation for the infringement committed by the State when it prohibits the forest owner from simply engaging in forestry. Since the judgment came in the so-called Änok case in Norrbotten, Skogsstyrelsen has stopped the payments. As a result, some fifteen forest owners have sued the state in order to have theirs in my opinion the obvious right to compensation. The need for forest owners to sue the state for compensation indicates that something is seriously wrong in today's situation. That's the background to my interpellation. Unfortunately, the Minister does not really answer my question as to what measures the Minister and the Government are prepared to take to address the problem. The Minister simply lets us know that we are waiting and want to see what the court proceedings lead to. Nevertheless, I would like to put a very fundamental question to the Minister, because basically it is a question of principle. Should the State have the right to prohibit the harvesting of productive forest land without paying compensation? If not, it is crystal clear that the government will have to review the rules if it is the position represented by the Kammarkollegiet that applies. Kammarkollegiet is now running the line that a forest owner should not be entitled to compensation if the state refuses felling in mountain forest.
i-ac00059349199ef8-759	Mr. Old President! First, a small correction of the geographical description of mountain forest. It never reaches as far east as the Torne Valley. It's a long way from here. As far as forest owners are concerned, my view is that they should not get caught. Ownership is enshrined in the Constitution. I've learned that if you take something from someone, you replace it. This must also apply to the forest. Let me reply, as the situation currently stands and in response to Mr Hultberg's questions, that the compensation is under investigation by the authorities and also subject to a legal process, as I said in the previous interpellation debate. We must await this legal process and the investigation by the authorities. But I have a great understanding of the frustration that forest owners of the mountain forest can experience when they get a decision that they can't harvest and that, if the legal process lasts, they get no compensation. Compensation must in some way be paid if one says that one takes away any advice. I will return to what I said in the previous interpellation debate: we should not forget the judgment of the High Administrative Court, which fell in February 2014. It has laid the foundations for the situation we have today, where decisions on mountain forests are about a five-year moratorium and that we cannot fell. The compensations have previously been market-based at 125 percent, and this is what authorities and courts are now looking at: What should be a fair remuneration? I'm not going into that discussion until these things are settled there.
i-ac00059349199ef8-763	Mr. Old President! I became somewhat calmer by the second answer given by the Minister for Rural Affairs now and also a little bit of the answer given earlier by the Minister to Mr Quicklund. I was not particularly reassured by the Minister's initial reply, in which he mentioned his concern that we have rules that take ownership into account. For me and the Moderates, it is important that we have rules that not only take ownership into account but also respect and protect it. That is why I was pleased that the Minister now clearly said that the forest owner who gets land redeemed and the one who gets its forest management prevented, of course, will also receive intrusive compensation. It was a welcome and important message that I will also follow up closely. I may also have reason to ask the same question to other ministers in the current government, as we know, unfortunately, that there is a rather large division of forest issues in the government. It is not always the same answers if you ask the same question to, for example, Minister for the Environment Skog. But it was an important and welcome clarification, because it is important and of course for the Moderates that ownership should not only be taken into account but also protected and respected.
i-ac00059349199ef8-766	Mr. Old President! I listened to the debate and could not refrain from asking the Minister for Rural Affairs any questions. I listened to his reply, Mr. Old President, and I think a lot of what he says sounds wise– let me say it. But what becomes my question to the Minister for Rural Affairs is: Is it Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht's opinion that is presented in the speaker's chair? Is it the opinion of the Social Democrat Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht that is set out in the speaker's chair? Is it the view of the Minister, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that is set out in the speaker's chair? Mr. Old President! Is what was said in the speaker's chair, the opinion of the government represented by the Minister, for which he is speaking in this House? For those who listen and follow the debate, I will tell you why I am asking the question. Of course, we should not distrust each other on purpose in these roles. However, let me remind you of a debate a week ago, Mr President-in-Office, when the Minister for the Environment of the same government was standing here in the speaker's chair and very clearly and upsetly declared that she certainly spoke in favour of the views of the whole government. And she had a completely different opinion from that, whoever it is, which the Minister represents during this evening's debate. It sounded completely different. At the time, instead, the tone was that there would be so much cost associated with replacing the landowners that it was absolutely impossible. Therefore, the government would continue along this path. Mr. Old President! Then I can only say one thing: one of the two ministers cannot speak for the government because they clearly have two different positions. I would think that would be both appropriate and reasonable for the Minister to respond.
i-ac00059349199ef8-771	Mr. Old President! It's not negligible money. That's a lot of compensation. It was paid out 1.5 billion in 2016. This government has increased the amounts, so it will be 250 million more in the 2018 budget. However, I note that the Moderates in their budget exercise have over 1 billion less in compensation to the landowners. There is a considerable difference. I don't really know where the Moderates are on the issue. Do you want to replace landowners when, in some cases, society has to take advantage of the assets of an individual forest owner? Can you give me an answer on that? You've removed over $1 billion in compensation to the landowners.
i-ac00059349199ef8-773	Mr. Old President! I am sorry that this is my last round of debates, because the debate is getting hot! That is a good thing, because these are, in principle, important issues that are of crucial importance to our country. The Moderates think that the basic thing is that the forest should be cultivated. Sweden has already allocated a great deal of forest through both formal provisions and, not least, through Sweden's 300 000 forest owners' voluntary work. 1.1 million hectares have been allocated without compensation to Sweden's forest owners in favour of the environment. There are quite few other entrepreneurs who act in the same way and who choose to give up 5%, and often more, of their business to the general good. But that is what Sweden's forest owners do, and it shows the great commitment they have to biodiversity and to achieving the goals that we have formulated in fairly broad political agreement in this Parliament's two equal goals for production and the environment. I can also say, Mr President-in-Office, that during the time of the Moderates and the Alliance we increased the rate of forest disposal thanks to the fact that we worked intelligently with the help of state exchange land. In this debate, however, I think it is reasonable to ask ourselves whether it is reasonable to protect more of the mountain forest when more than 50% of the land is already used. Thus, more than 50 percent of the mountain forest is already formally protected. It is important here that the processes expire, and I can only note that one of the state authorities, Kammarkollegiet, acts in a way that I find absurd in trying to run the thesis that what the owners of the mountain forest are engaged in would not be on-going land use. I am, to say the least, concerned about the ignorance of the state authorities, and for this the government has a responsibility.
i-ac00059349199ef8-777	Mr. Old President! Let me start by saying that I know that the government has increased the amounts, because the government has an ambition to have more provisions. We Moderates have lowered because we want less to be done in this area, and so we have less money for it. The reason is that we have already protected the most forest throughout the EU. So there is no reason why Sweden should go even further than we have done. That is the very background to this. I now answered the minister's question, Mr. Old President and you who listened. The Minister for Rural Development asked me a question and I answered it. I have a question back to the Minister for Rural Affairs. The Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for the Environment representing the same government have two different views, but both argue that they represent the government. That, Mr. Old President, is completely unreasonable. My question is this: is it the rural minister's answer here today, which I certainly think is much better, which applies, or is it the Minister for the Environment's answer that applies? Both cannot apply simultaneously to the same government. I answered the minister's question. Can the Minister answer my very simple question? Is it your opinion here today in the speaker's chair that applies, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, or is it the Minister for the Environment? You have different opinions.
i-ac00059349199ef8-781	Mr. Old President! Finally, in view of the concerns about property rights, I would like to be very clear and emphasise the legal certainty that we have in Sweden. The individual's right to compensation should be seen in the light of the provisions of Chapter 2 of the Government. Section 15 and what is said there about property protection. According to the form of government, the individual must be guaranteed compensation when the general limits the use of her land or building. This is something the government holds dear. I am surprised – or perhaps not really – when you give several different pictures. The Moderates are talking about fantastic voluntary provisions from private forest owners but at the same time reducing the compensation by 1 billion. When you have taken responsibility for protecting about 150 000 hectares more in Sweden, 90 000 of which are left, you remove money for compensation to the forest owners. This means that forest owners will not receive compensation. This government increases the remuneration of forest owners in order to move forward and live up to what is in the government form of protection of property rights.
i-ac00059349199ef8-785	Mr. Old President! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to save the Baltic cod. Regulation (EU) No 1380/ 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the Common Fisheries Policy provides that the use of living marine biological resources is to be carried out in such a way as to restore and preserve the populations of harvested species above levels capable of producing MSY, the maximum sustainable yield. The detailed framework for the management of cod in the Baltic Sea is set out in Regulation (EU) No 2016/ 1139 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the Baltic Sea, the so-called Baltic Sea Plan. The plan aims to achieve the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy and is based on the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES). Since the entry into force of the Baltic Sea Plan, the Council has each year set fishing opportunities for cod in the Baltic Sea in line with the plan. Quotation is a key tool for achieving the objective of sustainable fisheries but is one of several tools available. Gear limitations and time and space limitations are examples of other important tools. Sustainable fisheries also require a control system that is effective, effective and adapted to the common fisheries policy. There are two cod stocks in the Baltic Sea: the east and the west. The fishing quotas for cod in the Baltic Sea are established for two management areas, one Eastern and one Western. However, it is important to be aware that the distribution of the two stocks does not fully correspond to the two management areas. This means that the ICES advice for a cod stock cannot be directly compared with the quota established for a cod management area. For the Western cod stock, ICES has provided scientific advice and advice for 2018 on the level of fishing mortality in accordance with the Baltic Sea Plan. As regards the eastern cod stock, due to insufficient biological information, ICES is not in a position to carry out a complete stock analysis and therefore, for 2018, ICES was not able to provide information on fishing mortality. The government considers it worrying that the scientific information is not complete for the eastern cod stock.
i-8TQPgrgFiHVDKbKWDpb9Pg	The Regulation on fishing opportunities in the Baltic Sea for 2018 is based on scientific advice from ICES and the precautionary approach and in accordance with the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat in the Baltic Sea. In addition to fixing quotas for cod, spawning periods have also been introduced for cod in the Baltic Sea. Recreational fishing of cod in the Western Baltic Sea is also regulated in the regulation in 2018. The government's basic position is that the measures we decide on should be in line with the objectives and principles of the common fisheries policy. The objectives and principles are set to ensure that we continue to have fish in our seas but also to optimise the sustainable production of fish for the benefit of our fishing industry as well as the general public and consumers. My aim is to make cod fishing in the Baltic Sea both biologically and socio-economically sustainable. Sustainable stocks are a prerequisite for socio-economic profitability. I will therefore continue to promote long-term sustainable fishing that benefits our industry and coastal communities and offers healthy food both to us and to future generations. However, it is not only fishing that affects the situation of cod. It is important to be aware that the effects of climate change and eutrophication result in serious consequences for cod in the Baltic Sea. Changes in temperature and levels of salt and oxygen together with pollution are examples of factors that have a major impact on cod in the Baltic Sea.
i-ac00059349199ef8-793	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Interpellation is an important tool for Parliament's elected representatives to hold the government accountable and to raise various political questions in this House. It may seem a little strange that I have asked a question that is so very specific. How can an individual species that is not acutely endangered cause the Minister for Rural Development in Sweden to stand here and speak to me at nine o'clock on a Tuesday night? Yes, it is because cod is a particularly important fish for the biological balance of our near inland Baltic Sea. Mr. Old President! Cod is one of the most common fish in Sweden, and it therefore has great economic value. Most Swedes have at some point in their lives had cod from the Baltic Sea on their plate. It is good, because cod is thin, protein-rich food that has not had to travel so far to end up in the kitchen. However, an imbalance in the cod stock not only makes it more difficult for Swedish fishermen to obtain their allocated quota, but also now leads to cod not growing properly. In the most vulnerable population, scientists cannot pick up any fish longer than 50 centimetres. It's alarming. And today, the oldest Baltic cod cod don't even weigh half as much as the cod did ten years ago. Adult fish look like young fish, and the young look like herring. Mr. Old President! As Minister Bucht mentions in his interpellation response, Sweden has to comply with the common fisheries policy in the European Union. I would like to emphasise that the Moderates are one of the six parties in the Swedish Parliament that are behind and standing up for that line. And scientific advice will lead the way for fisheries policy. The cod are, as I said, special. This led, among other things, to the support of the Minister for Rural Development last year in the EU Board to negotiate in the EU to regulate also recreational fishing. As a member of the European Council, I was initially hesitant about this but have supported it because the situation is alarming. Now there is reason to ask the Minister for Rural Development if there are any new ways forward to save the eastern stock in particular. One could, for example, consider extending a hand to Denmark. Nevertheless, through their rather enormous quota for plaice, they are allowed to pick up quite a lot of cod. In fact, 10% may be fish that are not the specific fish for which a quota is allocated and the specific fish that is being fished at the moment.
i-ac00059349199ef8-799	Mr. Old President! Let me first thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for raising this important issue, although it is late at night. A prosperous cod stock in the Baltic Sea is a priority for me and the government. I also share Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's concern about the many challenges facing Baltic cod. While much is being done within the framework of the common fisheries policy to improve the situation of cod, it is worrying that the eastern stock is very small in size. And it has not improved even though it was very restrictive when setting quotas. In the last few years, when I've been there, we haven't seen any improvement. ICES advice has also been followed, and when ICES has not been able to provide advice, for example on the eastern stock, the precautionary principle has been used. And I think we should be proud that in all discussions at European level, Sweden has been the driving force behind the precautionary principle. I am also pleased that we have agreed politically on the seriousness of the situation and that we must pursue that line. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson asks about new measures. I think it is important that we have scientific advice as a basis. I have been asking for years whether anything has been found in the area of scientific advice. Unfortunately, however, this has not yet been done. It can be a dangerous way of introducing any other measure without having a scientific basis for it. However, it is perhaps not only about how much is fished up, but also about the state of the Baltic Sea. It concerns the salinity, water temperatures, pollution and so on.
i-ac00059349199ef8-805	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Minister Bucht for that answer. The Government of Bucht mentions in its interpellation response that it is not only fishing that affects the Baltic cod's good or not to be. I'm the first to sign that. The Baltic Sea is now getting browner, sweeter and warmer. Of course we can see that. Sweden has one of Europe's longest coastlines. And I, as a Member of the Gotland Parliament, definitely notice that. Almost every summer we are surrounded by an aggressive algal bloom, which affects the possibilities of bathing and, by extension, tourism that many of us live by. For the rest of the year, however, we do not really see what is happening. But beneath the surface of the water are the scars of past sins left, in the form of dead and oxygenless bottoms. Mr. Old President! For a long time, not least during the alliance government, Sweden has been pushing through OSPAR and Helcom for a better marine environment. During the previous government, a Sida project was started that financed the renovation of the wastewater treatment plant in Kaliningrad. Now it is inaugurated, and with a new treatment plant you can remove the equivalent of almost a whole of Sweden in released nutrients. I personally promised the Minister for the Environment to buy cake to celebrate it. But all this is a separate debate that deserves a full battery of interpellations to the Environment Minister. Mr. Old President! Fishing on predatory fish leads to quite strong chain reactions in the food chain. At the moment we have a situation where it seems that the fish in the stock are not only small; they are all of the same size. And if everyone is looking for crustaceans to eat and does not eat small prey, there will be imbalances in nearby species. It is precisely the imbalance that I am unsure whether Ice's counseling will catch up. It may be that we have a lot of fish. But if everyone is in such a bad condition – some are called sharpeners, because they are so thin – it feels like the Ices are missing something. I do not know whether it is because you do not pick up a single fish, or if you have the wrong measurement method. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development: if we cannot now take new measures ourselves, is it possible to ask ICES to revise the measurement methods they use? Like the Minister for Rural Development, I am convinced that Swedish expertise would be of great help in such possible work. The Maritime and Water Authority, established by the Alliance Government, has very good people working actively on this issue and on other issues that are close to it.
i-ac00059349199ef8-813	Mr. Old President! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson asks if Ices might miss something. I don't want to doubt Ice's. I know that on Ice's, you're made to find an answer to the question. But you haven't found it yet. Nevertheless, I believe that the driving force of science is to find a possible solution for the eastern stock. The cod is very small there. I also believe that we must all work to ensure that cod fishing is sustainable in the long term. Then it is also important that we realise that how much fish we pick up may not be the only thing affecting the situation of cod. The member is himself from Gotland and describes changes in water quality. Climate change, eutrophication, temperature and pollution also affect. Another thing that science points to and can influence is seal parasites, which live off cod. It is important to take a holistic approach to these issues, not least in terms of climate and the environment. Therefore, the government has allocated 600 million in the budget bill to the clean sea investment. It's about getting to grips with eutrophication. It is about pharmaceutical and environmental toxins in purification plants, plastics in the oceans and so on. All these measures, of course, affect the situation in the Baltic Sea and, not least, cod and may have an impact in the right direction. I therefore believe that there must be a broad approach to this work, even though science today cannot say exactly what this is because of.
i-ac00059349199ef8-818	Mr. Old President! Politics is about prioritising. We cannot say that all questions are the most important. Then that word quickly becomes watered down. In this debate, one might ask: is this the most important issue for the Baltic Sea? Reasonably not, the biggest issue for our sick inland sea is eutrophication, which leads to huge consequential effects for all species living there. In the case of endangered species, the situation of Baltic cod is perhaps the most alarming. Today, cod is considered vulnerable rather than under immediate threat. However, if we do not do anything, we know that cod eradication can have major consequences in the food chain or in the food web, if you like. I hope we have time to act before that happens. I assure you that if the government presents evidence-based measures to save cod, the Moderates support them. With that, I thank you for the floor. Thank you for tonight.
i-ac00059349199ef8-822	Mr. Old President! Long-term sustainable stocks, oa vset for which fish we are talking about, benefit the fishing industry and also contribute to jobs, not least in our coastal communities where fishing activities are an important part. I agree with Mrs Skalberg Karlsson that the most important thing is the environment in the Baltic Sea, where there are major problems. In fact, I feel that we are very much in agreement with party politics that we need to get to grips with this. This is also why the Government in the 2018 budget has allocated 600 million to address these issues. I look forward to it also having a long-term effect on the cod stock and other stocks.
i-ac00059349199ef8-824	Mr. Old President! Bengt Eliasson has asked me if I can confirm that the car subsidy for 2017 has not been fully used and, if so, which my assessment is of the reasons for this. Bengt Eliasson has also asked whether, in the light of the developments we have seen, I am prepared to review the rules on car support immediately. He has also asked whether I am prepared, when establishing a regulation on car support rules, to give the standard in company cars a lower weight than what corresponds to their market share or to completely ignore it when the standard is to be assessed. The reform of car support was carried out in order to achieve a more effective and effective regime. The cars for which compensation is provided must be road-safe and require less retrofitting. The car subsidy should also be directed more towards those with a lack of financial conditions for the purchase of cars and those who receive additional costs for this purchase. It is important that the aid works in the way it was intended. I can confirm that the car subsidy was not fully used in 2017. Historically, the amount of funding has varied. In recent years, the government has received additional funding, and in other years it has not been fully used. In order to be able to answer why the funds were not used in 2017, knowledge and follow-up are needed. In this context, I would like to point out that it is only one year since the reformed car subsidy came into force. Försäkringskassan and Trafikverket have since taken a number of measures, which are customary in the implementation of new law in order to achieve a functioning administration. As Bengt Eliasson points out, it takes time. From a follow-up point of view, therefore, it is relatively short time that the new car subsidy has been applied, and well-founded conclusions on the consequences of the amendment cannot be drawn yet. One reason why Försäkringskassan has not used the entire appropriation for car support in 2017 is what the agency itself points to in its expenditure forecast for 2018, namely that the implementation of the new regulatory framework has meant delays at different stages of the administration. This has led to a shift in payments from 2017 to 2018. Försäkringskassan predicts that the expenditure in 2018 will exceed the allocated funds of the car subsidy by SEK 1 million. Bengt Eliasson's question about the car support regulation concerns almost how an authority, the Swedish Transport Administration in this case, should apply a regulation. I cannot speak about this as a minister of state. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I believe that car support is an important benefit in promoting the participation of people with disabilities in society. It is important that the aid works in the way it is intended and I am closely following developments in this area.
i-BYcqrH3cA4upw6QRb2Urc7	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The content of the interpellation is in some parts quite technical, as the car support is a technical construction. But the outcome and use of car support is a support in people's lives and everyday lives that is extremely important. I see the answer as understanding the problem and realizing that there is potential for improvement in the system. Of course, it has been a very short time since the new rules came into force. Initially, I would like to emphasise that we were in complete agreement in this House when we made the new law and regulation. We also fully agree that the design of the target is absolutely right, but the application and outcome of the year that has passed is not really what was expected. The time that has elapsed is short and the implementation time has been a little too long. But for every undecided decision, the problems increase and the time goes on, and it can be devastating. I would like to start this debate by quoting my Socialist colleague and Mikael Dahlqvist. In connection with the treatment of the bill, he said that I want to make it clear that the government will follow up the issue closely and make evaluations. Of course, if the reform has the wrong effect, corrections will be made. This is not primarily about saving the state budget, but about a more efficient and fair system. ..................................................... I very much hope that, on behalf of the Government, the Government will support this statement and that we can jointly find solutions to the problem that has arisen. In our opinion, the whole proposal was an attempt to make it better, simpler and more sustainable for the individual, transparent and long-term – a predictable system simply, unlike the old, free car choice, which was largely rather questionable. But the past has shown that it has been the other way around. A normal year has been granted approximately 1 800 applications for car support. Last year, less than 60 applications were granted. The support which is intended to support the weak resources, as the Government says in its response, has, unfortunately, become a trap for them and support for the resource-rich. The aid amounts to SEK 280 – 300 million. Of course it is a lot of money, but in this context it is a fairly small amount of money in contrast to what the alternative costs would be. Then I come to my supplementary questions. Over the years, the money has been out in August, and after that you have had to wait until next year. Now there's a lot of money left. Will Försäkringskassan be able to transfer the leftover money and replenish the year in order to make even more decisions if they are made? If you can't keep the money for 2017 in 2018, will it be as usual, I was about to say – that the money is over in August and so can you start again from the beginning?
i-ac00059349199ef8-838	Mr. Old President! Minister! I became very interested in this issue when we discussed the change in car support in 2016. We have had a car support for a long time in Sweden, since the 40s, to enable people who have difficulties because of disabilities to get around in society. I am among those who have been concerned about the consequences that the idea that already factory-mounted vehicles are better could have. Well, technically, maybe that's how it's possible. But that the application would be as it has been was a dimension of the concern that we did not really have at the time. Now we have seen that the application has meant that a person who needs an adapted car is forced to buy a car that you may not even be interested in because the regulations are such that the Social Insurance Agency does not accept a more normal car that fits into a villa or residential area and that you do not stand out and are too different as a car owner. Försäkringskassan requires the car to be so ready that it becomes large, often a bus. It may not be very suitable for the family at all, but it will be cheaper with the small restitution needed, and the Social Insurance Agency's cost will be small. But the car owner gets a higher initial cost and then an almost unreasonably high annual cost to drive this car that you might not really want. There are examples that I have found out. When I read the interpellation, I contacted and visited a company that makes car adaptations. They told me about examples. There are families who have to rebuild their garage because the car to which you can get a subsidy does not go into a regular garage. There are examples that you cannot park the car at work because that kind of parking space is not available for employees. Worst of all, the example was that one could not put the car on a handicap parking lot at the hospital when making a visit to the emergency room because it simply does not go in. As Bengt Eliasson pointed out, very few decisions have been taken under the new law since it was established. As the Minister says, we should not draw too much conclusions from this. It may be that application can be changed for the better so that, after some time, you as a disabled person may be able to get a subsidy for a car that you think is suitable for the family, rather than some kind of professional vehicle. It is, therefore, an application that has damaged a great deal. Then there is another issue that has not yet been raised, and that is that this is an area that is very special. There are not many people who can adapt cars. Few cases have gone through – under 60, as Bengt Eliasson said – and many of these companies have no jobs today. If this continues for a while, we may not have any companies to make the adjustments that are needed in the future. Perhaps this worries me most.
i-ac00059349199ef8-845	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your contributions and questions. We did this together and with the common understanding that these were good changes and a good objective. As I see it, there was support for this being done by organisations, such as the Disability Delegation, which I meet regularly. There was a need to modernise with people at the centre. It was reasonable to have cars that were better adapted from the start. It's in a distribution profile. Unfortunately, this target group has a worse economy in general than the majority population. It's a question that I think we're talking about too little. Therefore, there are elements in the structure to be able to compensate for this. The cars would be more road safety, and so have they, as far as I understand. It would be functional and useful. The money would go to this very important need, such as increased participation and so on. We agree on this. There is no difference in ideology or direction here, but the question is how the application has gone out. I am the first to say that when I talk to Försäkringskassan and Trafikverket – the competent experts and administrators in the department in particular – the authorities are very aware of this. The Social Insurance Agency itself intends to follow this up. If I need to manage this one way or another, I really have nothing against it when it comes to follow-up. I want this to work. On the other hand, I do not believe that all decisions are bad or that the reform has largely failed to fulfil its objectives, but there are undoubtedly childhood diseases in this. Yes, funds can be used in 2018, and decisions will come out then. They were not intended to end in August but to have more planning and predictability in the funds. It is early to follow up on this, but I know there will be follow-up. If I need to give an impulse to this, I have nothing against it. It is natural to follow up on new legislation.
i-ac00059349199ef8-853	Mr. Old President! Many thanks for the answer and for the clarification, not least in the financial part of the agency! That's very good. It is a bit strange in an interpellation debate to agree that the basic legislation is good. Because we really are, and I would like to emphasise that once again. The old system of free choice was certainly not good. As I said, application has gone wrong. The people and examples that Jan Lindholm pointed out in his speech show that when you see that the family economy is in decline, you do not have the opportunity to have the large and more expensive car because the requirement is that you have as much factory-mounted as possible – electrical backdoors and all that can now be. This means opting out of the aid and that the market itself is being used. It will be a worse car, no quality control and, above all, no control of the quality of the supplements previously made on the car today. Then we are dealing with the issue of road safety, and there is really nothing to make the additional parts subject to inspection. It is a concern when people choose to go out on the rest of the market. Older poorer cars are on the market. In many cases, it is what we can say with an engagement that we can call some artisanal cars that are not originally built to be passenger cars and drive families in, but they have been adapted a little later. There is also a transfer to the transport service and so on. Last Sunday was the Parasports Gala. I was there, and I hope the minister followed it with interest. It was a fantastic event where we praised and celebrated the success of fantastic athletes during the year. Parasportarna are some of those who are very dependent on their car support to be able to practice their sport, drive their stuff and get to trainings and competitions and so on. They have made an appeal, as the Minister has probably seen, in which they stress the importance of being able to have cars adapted to their needs much more than the Social Insurance Agency's needs. I will give you some of the petition briefly: The Social Insurance Agency now decides what is a suitable car for us. It is mandatory, i.e. that you must choose the car that is most suitable in relation to Försäkringskassan's costs, regardless of the consequences for you. The car can cost as much as possible to buy, operate and maintain. It is not relevant according to Försäkringskassan to find out. With regard to the issue of establishing the regulation and its application, I would like clarification on what the Government actually means in its response. The Government has also taken note of this in its speech. I understand that the Swedish Transport Administration has submitted a proposal to the government that it should state that the regulation should state that the standard of all cars sold, including company cars, should be taken into account. And now we come to the cost-effective measures. It is not really a question of an application by the government that the Minister, as I understand it, says. Surely this is a rather powerful change in the regulation on which we fully agreed in this House and which leads to a change and deterioration for those in need? I would like to hear a little clarification about precisely the problem that bringing in business cars makes it a saving effect for about 30%, or an increase for customers.
i-ac00059349199ef8-864	Mr. Old President! I concluded my last speech by saying that there is a risk that this industry is about to be decommissioned. One idea was to have better competition, but perhaps not to take out companies. I would like to give another example of things I have learned during visits to this company. I spoke last time about new cars. But it is also possible to get support and subsidies for a used car. But then there are quite specific demands on the car. It must not be more than four years old, it must not have passed more than 6 000 km and it must have a lot of advanced pre-assembled equipment for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to provide support. When the adaptor then makes a search to find such a car, in some cases you will find only one copy on the used market throughout the country that meets the requirements. It is therefore not easy for those who want to try to get away with a lower initial cost. It doesn't seem to work either. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister is committed to this issue and really wants to follow this up. I think it's urgent. I therefore hope that the Minister will address this issue quite quickly. There are major problems here, as the interpellier and I have tried to point out, with those who need a car being seated with a car that is often not safe for traffic. These large vehicles are usually not tested in the same way as passenger cars and, even if they are new, may actually have worse road safety characteristics than they have had in the past. It may also be difficult to have old vehicles repaired with this new regulatory framework. So there are many things to deal with. I do not have much more time, but I very much hope that the Minister will take up this issue so that it does not go too far. Then we have no such nourishment left.
i-ac00059349199ef8-868	Mr. Old President! I think that the first time that I came into contact with this issue privately and understood that it was an important issue was when I was studying German grammar at a 60-point level in the mid-1980s. I've had fun with that in my life. Then I met a companion who had had a serious car accident a few years earlier. Nevertheless, he had with his very extensive disabilities an adapted car that was a very important prerequisite for us to be able to do fun things after the studies. We had a lot of fun and many conversations about German grammar in this car. This I think opened my eyes to me as to what a big difference this can make in a young person's life in this case. But it can also do that for someone who is older and is going to get to work or what it might be. There's no doubt about it. It was also because this is important that we made the change and that this needs to be modernised. I outlined the reasons for these changes, which are quite important principles, and which we also shared. Then you get quite quickly into the technology and details. With regard to this Regulation, it is the Finnish Transport Administration's task, under this Regulation on car aid, to carry out investigations into the existence of a particular equipment on the market. How this analysis should be done exactly should they decide and not I, because the Swedish Transport Administration is an expert authority in this area. But they start from buying behaviours when they develop their base, and they thus look at what kind of equipment is normally available in the cars sold in Sweden. It includes both private cars and business cars. There are certainly other models that would have advantages and disadvantages for different parties. But it is thought that it is not reasonable to remove service cars from the ground. Service cars are often sold after a couple of years. Then they can be very interesting for this target group with car support, because these cars are often equipped with modern technology. My point is simply that I am not an expert on this, but it is the Swedish Transport Administration. Neither Trafikverket nor Försäkringskassan want to put any obstacles in the way of implementing this reform. As I said, I'm happy to follow up on these parts. It is also reasonable to do so once the legislation has been in force for a while. But above all, I know that these authorities themselves want to do so. They've also noticed that there's basically good legislation – the authorities think so – but they see that these childhood diseases exist. That's why I'm taking this with me. We will simply come back to these issues.
i-ac00059349199ef8-875	Mr. Old President! I thank the Government for this. We will certainly come back to each other on this issue. The problem with these so-called lists, i.e. with the Swedish Transport Administration's compilations, is that when you bring in business cars you raise the price level to a premium level of car standard instead of having a standard level. Then one also picks away a long line – I completely ignore car brands and vendors – opportunities for individuals and families to actually buy the cars. That is what is at the heart of the problem. That is why I ask the Minister to keep a special eye on this very point. I am saying this to make this clear to those who listen. Then there are some other aid schemes which we have not discussed and which do not really concern the interpellation but which are important to mention, because they are communication vessels for the car support. This applies to almost non-existent mobility aid, which really needs to be seen as an opportunity for a free and mobile life for many people. This applies to the design and assignment of parking permits, which are linked to how the disabled can use their car in different ways. This also applies, of course, to the transport service. In addition, all three of these have bearings on people over 65 years of age, where the limit of car support goes, and are therefore important to these people. Mr. Old President! The car support saves opportunities for a working life, just as the Minister has done. It also saves families and many times careers. Let us now, together, the Government, ensure that it continues to do so. I believe that the consequences of continuing along this path are very serious. We urgently need to rectify this to the intention on which we fully agree, not least for the national economy. I thank the Government for a fruitful debate and wish both the Office and the Government a good night.
i-ac00059349199ef8-880	Mr. Old President! I wish the interpellier good evening and thank you for your commitment. I would also like to thank Jan Lindholm for his speech. I would remind you that the system that was left was certainly not perfect either. There were great problems with that too, including the fact that the cars needed huge rearmament. Nor was it a reasonable system, and the money ran out and so on. However, if you carry out this kind of reform, which is important for people's lives, you also have to follow it up and make sure it works. I will take it with me and thank you for this commitment late in the evening.
i-ac00059349199ef8-883	Mr. Old President! Edward Riedl has asked me whether I believe that the exclusion of Visby Airport from remote control confirms the Swedish Armed Forces' opinion regarding the significant impact of remote control on their operations, and what measures I intend to take to ensure that remote control does not have negative consequences from a defence policy perspective and adversely affect Swedish defence preparedness. The main task of the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is to provide a safe, efficient and environmentally sound air navigation service for civil and military aviation. Air traffic control is a necessary component of the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. The Swedish Armed Forces impose requirements on operations based on military needs, and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is responsible for ensuring that air traffic control can be conducted without interference for military aviation. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority must consult the Swedish Armed Forces before making decisions that may affect the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. This consultation process is intended to safeguard the interests of the Armed Forces. It is against this background that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration requested consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces on remote air traffic control from Arlanda Airports in Malmö, Åre Östersund, Umeå and Kiruna in June 2017. The request indicates that there will be a back-up function at these airports. In October 2017, the Swedish Armed Forces submitted consultations to the remote operation of air traffic control for these airports provided that a back-up function must be in operation no later than one year after the remote operation of air traffic control has been put into operation at the respective airport. In order to avoid creating a contingency gap between the operation of the remote operation and the operation of the backup function, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority will maintain the air traffic control capability of the physical air traffic control towers, according to the Swedish Armed Forces, until the reserve function required by the Swedish Armed Forces is in operation. I note that the request for consultation does not cover remote traffic control at Visby Airport and that the traffic management at Visby Airport will thus continue to be staffed.
i-ac00059349199ef8-887	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. In order for the listener to understand the question, I want to tell you that the government will move all air traffic controllers in Umeå, Kiruna, Östersund and Malmö down to Stockholm. In this debate with the Minister for Defence, I intend to focus mainly on what actually concerns the Armed Forces, but in order for the listener to understand the whole picture, I would like to say that there will of course be more debates in this area – then with other ministers. This evening, however, we are debating, as I said, what concerns the Armed Forces. What is important to bear in mind is that the decision concerns these four airports and that this is what the consultation has been about. From the beginning, the ambition was to include Visby, but the Swedish Armed Forces had views. As I understand it, this has therefore been backed up. But a facility is being built in Stockholm, and it has already started. From there, 20 flight locations shall be capable of being flown by air. The staff will sit in a building in Stockholm, and at 20 airports around Sweden – that's a large part of the capacity we have in Sweden when it comes to airports, should be added – to replace people with cameras. The people will sit in a building in Stockholm. Mr. Old President! I would like to start by saying that I am absolutely not a military strategist – in no way. But if one gathers a large part of the country's important abilities in one building, in a geographical location, at least I think the vulnerability is increasing. As I said, if you build capacity for 20 airports in one place, the vulnerability must reasonably increase, as I see it. Perhaps the Minister for Defence has a different view, and he will be happy to tell you in the debate. Actually, I have four questions for the Secretary of Defense. The first is if the Minister sees any danger of pooling all this ability in a building in one and the same geographical location. The second question I have for the Minister is whether he believes that this decision increases or reduces our defence capabilities or leaves our defence capabilities unchanged. The third question also has some bearing on this, and it is whether the Minister has any knowledge of how much money the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration is saving through this type of action. I imagine that a decision of this kind has been preceded by some discussions in the government, and my last question on this subject is therefore whether the Minister of Defence or any other Minister has asked such questions at one of the government meetings: how much money is saved when implementing this change – if it is not that one thinks this is an enabling measure? I am content there and look forward to receiving answers to these four questions during the debate.
i-ac00059349199ef8-894	Mr. Old President! You can choose many different angles in a debate like this. I do not know whether it is the Moderate Party view that the measures now under way are things that should be stopped or abandoned. It would be interesting to have that comment, because sometimes it may be that it is easy to talk when you are in opposition and another thing when you are in a government position. I would also like to remind you that it was the previous government that opened the way for local air navigation services to be opened up to competition. It can open up for many different kinds of perspectives here. What has been important for the Swedish Armed Forces in this context, which I agree with, is that there is a back-up function and that this back-up function can enter into force if the regular air traffic management capability does not work. I explained this in my introduction. This is what can enable you to handle this type of issue in a possible crisis situation, and it is a very important part that the Swedish Armed Forces have made demands on in this context. It thus covers the Swedish Armed Forces' activities and the kind of assessments they make in this context. I think it is important to be able to look at a peace rational operation that can also be replaced by another type of operation in a situation of crisis or increased preparedness. So that's what you've been guarding yourself for. I would also like to make it clear that it is the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority that is responsible for this activity even during increased preparedness and in war. This is also precisely why the consultation function with the Swedish Armed Forces exists, in order for consultation to take place before the work can make decisions that can affect the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. It is in this consultation process that the interests of the Armed Forces should be protected. I understand that this has worked in a fairly smooth and good way. That is so to say, the perspective we can have from my department in this context. So that's what it looks like. However, what talks and discussions are taking place within the government is not something I intend to go into in public, but it is discussions that remain in that context.
i-ac00059349199ef8-899	Mr. Old President! Unlike the Minister, I will try to stick to what the interpellation is really about and what I want to ask the Minister. But it is clear that a variety of perspectives could be built on both one and the other. There are quite a lot of changes you want to make: a large part of the air traffic controllers that are around the country are being brought together. Today, therefore, a function is being built for 20 airports in one building. The reserve capacity that the Minister is talking about, Mr. President, is some kind of mobile air traffic control tower – some kind of glorified caravan that should be standing out at the airports. In danger of crisis or war, you should be able to fly the air traffic controllers in Stockholm to all these places in the country so that you can maintain the capacity. Then let us hope, Mr President-in-Office, that we will be properly warned so that we can carry out this type of maneuver. Does the Minister think that it impairs or improves our defence capabilities and our defence readiness to pool so much important capabilities in one place? That's what my question is about. The Minister may choose to answer or not to answer the question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but I think it is reasonable that you as Minister of Defence should have a point of view on this. I would like to come back to what I asked the Minister about, whether or not he sees any risk with this. Perhaps the Minister can reply that he sees no risk with this, and then I simply have to accept that answer. If changes are made, I think it is reasonable to ask how much money is saved on this. Or is it a defensive measure to pool all this capacity in one place? Mr. Old President! The Minister asked me a question. I am going to answer that question, because I think that is what is done in a debate. I have now asked the Minister a few questions for the second time, and I hope that he will use his next speech to answer any of them. I do not ask the Minister to agree with me in any way, but it is good if you answer each other's questions. The Minister asked whether it was my opinion or that of the Moderates that I presented in the speaker's chair. I would like to make it very clear that I am asking questions to the Minister to whom I think it is reasonable to answer. It builds up knowledge so that a party can make decisions. I now put these questions to the Minister.
i-ac00059349199ef8-910	Mr. Old President! I can only note that the first question put by Edward Riedl in his interpellation is related to whether I consider that the exclusion of Visby airport from remote control confirms the Swedish Armed Forces' opinion on the essential impact of remote control on its activities and what measures I intend to take to ensure that remote control does not have negative consequences from a defence policy perspective. I have explained that Visby is the exception. As far as the second part is concerned, I have explained that we have a back-up function. I have said this both initially in my reply and in my reply. I have also noted that this aviation agency organisation is about a peacetime organisation and that we have back-up on how to deal with crisis and increased preparedness. Crisis and increased alertness can appear in very many different ways. This is too extensive to go into here today, but building a parallel function according to the intention of the Swedish Armed Forces is still a way of meeting the requirements that the Swedish Armed Forces have set. I think that is a solution that is clearly in the right direction. I note that the Moderates do not really have any idea of this. There are a number of questions that indicate that you would do it in some other way, but I cannot see that there is really such a substance in what Edward Riedl says. Probably the truth is that it would be about the same outcome in this matter if the Moderates were to take care of it. But it is of course interesting to ask questions and give a picture of yourself acting in some other way in practice. These issues I see to a large extent as administrative issues where the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration is trying to find a rationality in a peacetime organisation but where one is sensitive to what is said by the Swedish Armed Forces. I have previously explained the order that applies, where you consult with the Swedish Armed Forces and look at how it affects the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. On this basis, solutions are found, which is what has been done in this case. If my answers do not match Edward Riedl's expectations in this context, then that is the case. However, I have explained how these matters have been dealt with, and I have done so on the basis of the questions initially raised by the interpellation. I have also explained that I do not think I need to comment on internal arguments in the government. This was a matter of great concern to the ministers representing the former government. Since I myself made some interpellations at the time, I know that that was about the way they used to behave, and that is also a reasonable approach. This is the picture I have of the case.
i-ac00059349199ef8-921	Mr. Old President! I have to say, however, that in a democratic country it is reasonable that the elected parliament has the opportunity to put questions to the government that answers to Parliament. I think it is reasonable to have that order. There is nothing strange about the parliament directing questions of a different nature to the government. What I find strange, however, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and those of you who may be listening to the debate at this late hour, is that the Minister chooses not to answer relatively simple questions. Whether or not a measure that is quite extensive in this part increases or reduces defence capacity is, in my view, a question to which it is reasonable for a Minister of Defence to be able to answer. However, I note that I am not going to get an answer to this, and I suppose that will be in order. However, a non-reply, Mr President-in-Office, is to some extent also an answer in this respect. The second question was how much money this saves and whether these issues have been discussed within the government. I have full respect for the fact that the Minister for Defence does not want to disclose internal discussions, but he would still have been able, Mr President of the Age, to share with Parliament whether there is in this way any substantial money to save in this area. I think, Mr. Old President, you're making big changes. The question is how much money you save and how much aviation safety you get for this. Does it get better or worse? Do you increase or decrease defence ability? It's a puzzle you can put to see if you're going to be for or against. I don't think there is anyone against technology development in itself, but the question is what the puzzle looks like. I should like to thank the Minister for Defence for having made it clear in this debate, through his non-answers, that there is not much to be contributed by the Swedish Armed Forces in this area, at least not through the Minister for Defence.
i-ac00059349199ef8-926	Mr. Old President! I've never denied anyone a single question. Of course, if the answers do not suit the interpellier, you can criticise them. What I have explained is one way of solving any problems that may arise in connection with the remote control of air traffic control. It is the way that has resulted from this process between the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and the Swedish Armed Forces. It is also a question of how to manage such a function in the context of a crisis situation or a situation where there is an increased level of preparedness. The result is also that there will be no gap in terms of preparedness. If you are overpoliticized in the face, and if the important thing is to squeeze someone into a discussion, you can always deal with a wide range of issues where the impression is that you will never be satisfied. I can tell you that, on the basis of the current conditions, we have solved the problem and that this is how we will continue to work on it. I can also say that the Moderates do not really take a different view – in any case no such one has been presented here, but there are a wide range of questions that have been asked. It is also true that it should be seen from a total defence perspective that a civil authority also has to provide these services in a situation of crisis and increased preparedness. So there is a total defence perspective. We are now working on developing the total defence in Sweden, and we must ensure that such functions are robust and functional in the future. Then it's about being able to balance peacetime rationality with how we deal with crisis and increased preparedness. I believe that, on the basis of the two questions raised in the interpellation, I have been able to deliver relevant and workable answers.
