i-c0ee799f49089bed-6	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I intend to promote more transparent and flexible parental insurance for self-employed workers. Parental insurance and, in particular, parental allowance are a key element of family policy. However, the use of parental benefit varies, mainly in terms of gender, but also in terms of, for example, the labour market situation. For parents with their own business, and in particular for men, the use of parental benefit is lower than it is for employees. Only about 65 per cent of men with an individual firm used at least one parental allowance day before the child turned three. The corresponding figure for employed men was 86 per cent. For female entrepreneurs, the use was less conditional. Among women, 96 per cent of those with an individual firm took out at least one parental benefit day during the same period, and the difference was not as great in comparison with employees. There are also differences in the use of parental benefit between different forms of enterprise. The number of parental benefit days used was lowest for those with their own limited liability company, both among men and women, which may indicate that it is difficult to completely release the company and that leave is therefore shorter. The legislation on sickness benefit-based income (SIG) can be part of the explanation for the lower use of parental insurance for entrepreneurs. The SGI of a self-employed person can be difficult to determine and predict. For starters, the rules for calculating SGI are currently different depending on the type of company the entrepreneur chooses, which is not satisfactory. The Government therefore wants to change the rules on the so-called construction phase so that they also apply to limited companies and extend the time to three years regardless of the company form. The Government expects to present a proposal with this content during the spring, and the ambition is that the new rules will be in place on 1 August 2018. The proposal increases predictability and the possibility of planning, which can make it easier for entrepreneurs to take parental leave. As security increases, I hope that it can also contribute to increasing women's entrepreneurship. The importance of clear information on compensation for parental leave is something that the Swedish National Audit Office specifically points to in its report. It is also a priority for the government. Therefore, the information responsibility of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is particularly emphasised by setting an information target in the regulation letter. For 2018, the goal is for Försäkringskassan's information to help parents gain better knowledge of parental insurance regulations. This also applies, of course, to entrepreneurs. The report on modern parental insurance has recently been submitted. The assessments, proposals and surveys have taken into account that parents have different conditions for parental leave, for example because of the nature of their work. The study makes proposals that can increase transparency and flexibility for entrepreneurs as well, and that increase gender equality in the collection of parental allowance and parental leave. The report is now being referred in the spring.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. That is a very urgent question. We need more entrepreneurs in Sweden. We know that four out of five new jobs are emerging precisely among small businesses. Thanks to LOV, for example, many women have been able to start their own business in the care industry. Therefore, it is also important that this calculation is included with the government as it makes it much more difficult for a woman, for example, to be able to make a living in her company in the care sector. It's all connected. When starting a business, you often make a risk calculation. Will I be able to support the family on the income that I estimate I will be able to receive? It is often about counting on which customers I will have and whether I can trust and believe that I will have this number of customers and so on. In the calculation there is also a risk of: What happens if I get sick? How much money will I be able to get? The same is true if, for example, I want to have more children or already have small children. What do I get in parental allowance? I don't think there are many people in Sweden who know it on a straight arm if we go out and ask: How much do you get in sickness benefit when you get sick? The SGI is very complicated and not completely transparent. It is even worse if you are also self-employed to be able to have a predictability. How much money will I get if I fall ill or if I'm going to be on parental leave? Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. We have parental insurance that is well-developed. It is very good, but it is very uneven and unequal if you are employed or have an individual firm for example. If you have a limited company, you are counted as an employee, so it will be in a completely different way. It is actually a problem in itself that, as the Minister writes in the answer, the form of the company makes a decisive difference in how much money you get if you run a limited company or, for example, have an individual firm. We have a well-developed childcare facility. However, there are now too many children within it, and the groups of children are very large. But it gives parents the opportunity to take a great responsibility for their children while working or starting a business. Those obstacles are not as great as it is economically to not know how much money you will get if you fall ill. The gender balance between women and men who are self-employed is also interesting to look at. It's very uneven. In the labour market statistics, approximately 9 per cent are counted as entrepreneurs. It's a little hard to put a precise finger on what's an entrepreneur. Of the 9%, 70% are men. That's why we need industries where women step in, take over and start their own business. It is also important to analyse this part of the proposal on welfare systems, profit ceilings and so on. If social security systems are perceived as unsafe and unpredictable, they have consequences. People don't have the guts to start their own business. We must try to remove all such obstacles. Then it is a very good thing that what the Social Insurance Committee proposed about improved insurance cover during the construction phase, regardless of the form of the company, will become a reality. But that's not enough. We need to remove more obstacles in order to dare to start a business. It's about the regulations. The SGI is not transparent. We came in the investigation with a lot of suggestions that could be taken up and looked at further to make it more transparent. Historical income, for example, is one such thing.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this interpellation! I am pleased to be able to come up with some fairly clear answers. For example, as of 1 August, we will have a new regulatory framework in place that equates public limited companies with other forms of companies. We also extend the time for the so-called construction phase to three years regardless of the company form. We know that this is something that will be welcomed by Entrepreneurial Sweden and hopefully also help to increase security so that women feel that they can both start a family, be a parent and run a business. When I respond to this interpellation, it becomes very clear, beyond any doubt, that gender here as well as other aspects of parental insurance is the greatest distinguishing factor. Men who are self-employed choose to a large extent not to use parental insurance, while the difference between women who run businesses and women who are employed is very small, almost negligible. So it is now, 42 years after we implemented the fantastic reform that parental insurance is and that has created the conditions for women both to participate in working life to a much greater extent and to dare to invest in becoming self-employed. As I also said, we have printed their information assignments in the regulations to Försäkringskassan, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out. I would like to touch on the issue raised by Lotta Finstorp here about the other parts of the parliamentary social security inquiry, not least the question of historical SGI, or EGI, as it is called, which represents remuneration-based income. I share the view that, especially, I would say, for self-employed workers and for people who work on fixed-term contracts and who move between different forms of employment – combining in different ways – our social security system today and the SGI are very difficult to understand and get a fair outcome from. In May 2017, the Riksdag adopted the bill Data at individual level in the employers' declaration. The proposal of that bill to allow employers to account for individual income data in the employers' declaration now provides the conditions for moving forward with the parliamentary social security inquiry's proposal for a new concept of income in social security, the so-called EGI. There is currently an investigation at the Ministry of Social Affairs where we look at how we could implement this change. I am convinced that Lotta Finstorp knows, as you are well aware of this issue, that this is a huge change. But I think it is absolutely necessary, and I see in my view that it could be put in place for a future term of office.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-30	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It is interesting and good that we are taking up the parliamentary inquiry which had very many good proposals. The SGI, on which sickness benefit and parental insurance are based, is obsolete today. Sure, there are many who have secure jobs and work eight to five and so on, but we see more and more that you work in project form or that you are a combinator. The combinators have absolutely the weakest insurance cover. When you start your own business, you may usually have the opportunity to go down on half-time leave, and you have your own company at half-time. It's a huge trap for anyone who gets sick or should be on parental leave. The EGI is absolutely the right path based on what the labour market looks like today and what it will look like in the future. This would also improve insurance cover for entrepreneurs, regardless of their legal form. It is also important that the form of enterprise in which the company is run is treated equally. I read a very interesting interview on the Swedish Enterprise website with a woman named Anna-Anna-Lena Bohm and is CEO of something called Uniguide AB. The interview is about the security thing. She says that security in social security systems is particularly important for women, that is, women who are entrepreneurs, and that we need more women who are self-employed. She goes on to say that it should be simple, predictable and manageable. It is important for entrepreneurs to know the conditions and to be able to plan. ..................................................... I think employees also have the problem that you do not know how much money you actually get on the day you have to use the insurance. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is very good, and I very much welcome it. When we were in the investigation, it was to be completely honest precisely on the issues of parental insurance and health insurance for entrepreneurs that we didn't really get any further. This report really shows in black and white how complicated it is on the day you take the step to start your own business. You don't know at all how much money you'll get if you get into the situation that you have to use the insurance. I would like to point out that the recipients highlight the difficulty of getting clear answers from the Social Insurance Agency. In the report, the recommendation to Försäkringskassan is that the information must be much clearer. It should be uniform and not dependent on who you ask. It is apparently also difficult for self-employed people to calculate on the Social Insurance Agency's website how much money they will receive from the insurance. So it is really one of those things that we need to go deep into. It is good that the Minister highlights the fact that the EGI is being analysed as an opportunity for the future. It is necessary, and it is in fact also quite urgent. Above all, we women need more security on the day we take the step and start our own business. You can see that clearly here too. The protection of entrepreneurs must be strengthened as far as possible, and it must also be flexible. I think that one should think about the needs of the combinators to a large extent, because few people dare to go from a full-time job in security, perhaps in the municipality, to starting their own business and becoming self-employed from one day to the next. You want to work half-time – half-time.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-38	Madam President, I would like I share the reflections you make here, Lotta Finstorp. I sat during the period of the Alliance Government in power in the Delegation for Gender Equality in Working Life appointed by the then Minister for Labour and the Minister for Gender Equality. We then looked at various factors related to the labour market and linked to a gender perspective. We also looked, of course, at the opportunities of entrepreneurs. I was thinking about the example you picked up here from the interview with Anna-Anna-Lena Bohm. It was such an issue that we discussed very much. Clearly, to take the step, women want to feel security in a different way. The statistics show that women still take a huge responsibility for young children and for the family situation. This is the case, and as a result you also need to be able to feel secure in order to venture into your own business. We had a dialogue with representatives of the Entrepreneurs who clearly described how women chose, for example, to postpone taking the step into their own business until family formation was completed. It is clear that I share the view that we need to try to remove such obstacles. As I said, we have a few things that will come into place this year. Försäkringskassan also has a clear mandate in its regulatory letter that will help parents gain better knowledge of parental insurance regulations. They have also, in fact, now, on the basis of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, invested in improving information for entrepreneurs. I will, of course, follow it up and see that it has an impact. With regard to the proposal on historical income, EGI, it was a prerequisite that we got through this bill that employers account for individual income data in the employers' declaration. It was a prerequisite for being able to change the system. We now have that in place, and then the ambition must be to take clear steps in that direction. This is not least about the credibility of social security systems. No matter what form of employment I have or whether I am self-employed, I should be able to feel that the social security systems to which I pay are for me. It's important. We need to face the truth. We have a changing labour market, which will be so for the foreseeable future. It would be a step backwards for everyone to have a permanent job in one place for a long time. It won't look like that. Then we must also have a well-being and a welfare system that is capable of creating security in a changing labour market. That is why I am a strong advocate of a change against the EGI. That is why work has begun in the Government Office. And whatever government we have after the elections, I hope it will be taken forward.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-46	Madam President, I would like We promise that we will continue with this work after the election, Annika Strandhäll. I read the referral from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise on sickness benefit-based income during the construction phase. They are positive and support it and so on. There is a text in the answer that I think is very good. It says that there are a lot of system factors that affect entrepreneurship and increased risk-taking and that the ocial insurance system can be considered as part of the business environment. If you think about it that way, you have to think much more in general terms, in all areas of problems that prevent the start-up of new businesses. This is such a part. The Swedish Association of Small Entrepreneurs last year published a report called "Insecure" no one can be – that is how small and sole entrepreneurs are affected in sickness and parental insurance. Their survey is largely based on stories from entrepreneurs that describe how difficult it is when children get sick and that there is no transparency about how much compensation they will receive. It's very interesting. They also highlight the creation of four out of five new jobs in small businesses. Then all the obstacles that make you dare not take that risk must be removed. Sweden needs more entrepreneurs, not fewer. In the past, you could only know which SGI you had on the day you signed up for sick. But if I understand the Swedish National Audit Office's audit correctly, it is possible to find out before you need to use the insurance. Entrepreneurs would need more information about this. When you calculate the risk of starting your own business, you can go in and also look at that part.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-51	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's right, Lotta Finstorp. It is possible to get help in calculating SGI without having a compensation case at Försäkringskassan. It is important that Försäkringskassan tries to reach out with this information and that it is disseminated in different ways. I have taken note of the writing from the Swedish Association of Small Enterprises. It's very good. They are committed to these issues, which is gratifying. They see the importance of a functioning social security system for us to have more small businesses, perhaps also to create the security to venture and hopefully the security to then hire their first employee. If you count it in this way, if you are to be honest, the figures for job opportunities will be brilliant. In addition to these different parts, I would like to take this opportunity to point out something that is on the way and which I think is a good step in the right direction. I received the final report of the parental insurance inquiry before the end of the year. And it contains several different proposals. We have also, in a fast track, taken the opportunity, among other things, that it will be possible to transfer days to someone other than a common-law spouse. That is something I know has been asked for, not least by entrepreneurs. I take the opportunity to draw the attention of Lotta Finstorp to the fact that this is something that is positive for entrepreneurs. Thank you for a good debate!
i-c0ee799f49089bed-56	Madam President, I would like Rossana Dinamarca has asked me how I intend to remedy the legal uncertainty that arises when it is not possible to establish where in the law there is support for Försäkringskassan's demands for medical certificates. She has also asked whether I will take any legislative initiatives or take any other action to ensure that it is the law that is applied and nothing else. It is important, first and foremost, that there are rhymes and reasonings in the debate, especially when it is held in the Parliament's pulpit. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency handles over 600 000 cases annually. They have a very large task, and they have a very large responsibility. We politicians should have a lively discussion about what health insurance we should have in Sweden and what the regulations for it should look like. I welcome this, and I have taken the initiative. However, this debate is moving in a different direction, and I would like to raise the finger of warning. The Social Insurance Agency is required by law to assess the ability to work when examining an application for sickness benefit. In addition to the provisions of the Social Security Code, there are procedural provisions both at the regulation level, which is decided by the Government, and in regulations, which are decided by the Authority. As other implementing authorities, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is free to decide its own investigative methods and collect the information it considers necessary for this purpose. This must be done within the framework set out in the Administrative Act and the Social Security Code. In the case of a medical certificate, the Act states that the insured person must prove the reduction in working capacity by submitting a medical certificate to the Social Insurance Agency. In Försäkringskassan's regulations, it is regulated that in cases of sickness benefit, the medical certificate form established by Försäkringskassan in consultation with the National Board of Health and Welfare must be used. As Rossana Dinamarca knows, the government and I as a minister cannot comment on how the authority applies the law. If it is the case that the Social Insurance Agency refuses sickness benefit, the question of entitlement to sickness benefit may be examined by the court following an appeal. In addition, the proceedings of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency may be subject to review by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, either following a notification concerning an individual case or within the framework of the own-initiated inspections carried out by the Parliamentary Ombudsman. Our job as elected representatives is to ensure that we have adequate legislation and that insurance through the legislation works according to our intentions. It is about safe and legally secure health insurance and quick support back to good health and jobs. The individual should understand what is happening and how to get back. I have read stories where I feel that this is not always the case. These are stories that people do not understand the decision of the Social Insurance Agency, and that they feel that they do not receive the necessary support. That is why we are making changes for a safe and well-functioning health insurance. The government has presented eleven measures for a safe and well-functioning health insurance centred on people. This work also includes a better dialogue between Försäkringskassan and the healthcare sector. This government has made several efforts to ensure that we have health insurance that provides security and support back to health and work. We are prepared to do more, and I invite Rossana Dinamarca to be part of that work.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister for Social Affairs believes that rhymes and reasoning are important in the debate, and I can only agree with that. It is important that a debate is knowledge-oriented and held at a reasonable level. Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs' answer leaves much to be desired in these respects. One might think that I myself have made up that Försäkringskassan lacks legal support for the demands that they make. The Minister for Social Affairs's answer also seems to point this out. However, the Minister of Social Affairs has missed the criticism of the absence of legal support from several knowledgeable actors. My opinion in this part is based on the analyses by Professor Ruth Mannelqvist, Professor Rune Lavin and Professor Emeritus Lotta Vahlne Westerhäll. Their view is that there is no legal support for the requirements imposed by Försäkringskassan. This assessment is also shared by lawyers at LO-TCO Legal Protection. What has happened is that Försäkringskassan has chosen to replace the properties sickness and incapacity for work in the Social Security Code with concepts other than those listed in the Act. These are medical prerequisites for work and the concept of activity limitation and DFA chain. The concepts are taken from the SOU 2009:89 The borderland between disease and work, and they made suggestions on how to change the legislation. But the proposal never came true. However, it did not prevent Försäkringskassan from introducing these concepts in its own guidelines. In practice, Försäkringskassan's system means that the requirements for sickness benefit are now completely different from those previously imposed. A reasonable order in Sweden is that it is the Riksdag that makes laws and that an authority does not have the right to override these laws through its own rules. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency's new scheme has resulted in doctors not being able to complete what is required in the certificates and that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency rejects doctors' assessments of the patient's incapacity for work. All of this is quite different from the fact that an authority determines what information it needs in order to investigate more closely the conditions for a certain benefit. I believe that the Minister of Social Affairs has not taken his task seriously when he refers to the fact that it is not possible for the Minister to have views on how an authority applies the law. A Minister of Social Affairs must, of course, be able to have an opinion on what the right to sickness benefit should be. For example, does the Minister of Social Affairs think it reasonable that a person with severe depression, who according to the National Board of Health and Welfare is a serious illness, has very difficult to receive sickness benefit after day 180 with reference to the self-invented requirement of so-called objective survey findings? Could it not be the Minister's view that people with diagnoses, where such findings are missing, should not be entitled to sickness benefit? It is now up to the Minister of Social Affairs to prove that the Ministry will soon issue the investigation directives for the investigation that will review labour market testing in the field of health insurance. Clear and rigorous investigation directives are needed to ensure that society is indeed at its strongest when people are at its weakest. What I wonder, however, is whether the Minister for Social Affairs has really understood the shortcomings of today's health insurance.
i-9PJMhATVtVD9Cr4SCkAXog	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rossana Dinamarca, for this interpellation! I still have to tell you, I'm a little stunned. Rossana Dinamarca has been in the Swedish Parliament for a very long time and should have a good picture of how government control works. Neither the form of government nor I, for that matter, believe that ministerial government is a good way to operate. Nor can a government tell an authority to break the law. This Rossana Dinamarca knows. Rossana Dinamarca also knows that during this term of office we have taken over 50 different measures to create a safe and well-functioning health insurance. Many of the measures taken have also been discussed with the Left Party. We have taken most measures to prevent people from becoming ill. We have taken most steps to ensure that early in a sick case people receive support and help to get back to work again. We have taken a number of different measures to improve quality and create more legal redress in insurance. People should have their work capacity tested and not just fall through the insurance into a long period of sick leave. We have removed the precipice or the longer time limit in health insurance. Only a few weeks ago, I presented a sufficient set of measures to further strengthen the security of the individual in health insurance. This Rossana Dinamarca knows. For example, we set up a national coordinator to take a holistic approach to health insurance to support the individual. Recently, we decided on two government assignments regarding the cooperation between Försäkringskassan and the healthcare sector and to further strengthen Försäkringskassan's work in coordinating different actors in the field of sick leave. We have left a zero tolerance mission so that people do not fall between the chairs. We will set up an investigation to review normal work and specific reasons. These are measures that a minister can take to increase the security of health insurance. What Rossana Dinamarca is now talking about is something quite different that will not in the least benefit those who are on sick leave. I also think that this discussion needs to get some proportions, Rossana Dinamarca. People should not have to get caught or fall between through the chairs. People will be helped to return to health and work again. That's where we're supposed to focus. The Social Insurance Agency handles 600 000 cases annually. In 10 % of these cases, the doctor's certificates are supplemented in order to make a fair assessment of the right to insurance for the individual. This is not a new system. We have had that system for a very long time in Sweden, and it also has a strong support from the social partners. Today, a few percent are denied sickness benefit. For them, of course, security should increase so that they feel that they understand these decisions and that it is legally secure. To achieve this, we have systems of courts, with the Ombudsman and with others.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-85	Madam President, I would like I think that many of the proposals in the series of proposals highlighted by the Minister are good. The Left Party was also involved in abolishing the precipice. It is not ministerial government that I am asking for. But Försäkringskassan does not follow the law but makes its own assessment of the right to sickness benefit. It has set up its own regulatory system without having the power to do so. This is what I want Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll to act against. It's not ministerial rule. I think it is perfectly reasonable that the people affected by rejection deserve transparency and legal certainty. The law states that sickness must be certified with a medical certificate. But otherwise it says nothing else. Nevertheless, applications are rejected where the certificates are not drawn up according to the internal rules of Försäkringskassan. In far too many cases, Försäkringskassan's assessment of the work capacity of the sick also shows that they have no foundation in reality. The government can and should put its foot down and make it clear that health insurance is an insurance policy and that the medical certificate only needs to prove incapacity for work, nothing else. The rejections today are not reasonable. Let me take a few examples of the application by the Social Insurance Agency of the concept of normal work. A 57-year-old woman who is a nurse uses a walker and wheelchair, has severe rest pain and a rigid hand and is very disabled. After 180 days, she is compared to normal work. Försäkringskassan writes: Försäkringskassan's view is that, despite your various problems, you can cope with an appropriately lighter, non-concentration-intensive work where you have the opportunity to sit down in your work and where your ankle is not subjected to stress. The exact type of work to which the Social Insurance Agency refers does not materialise. Another woman, 47 years old and regional manager, has fatigue syndrome, assessed against the regular work of a family doctor and specialist in psychiatry. The Social Insurance Agency considers that there are no objective findings or limitations that confirm a pronounced mental impairment and suggest that she would not be able to carry out her duties as Regional Manager. Sickness benefit is denied for the entire illness period of more than five months. The administrator rejects the doctor's assessment. This is a hair traveler. This means that it is extremely difficult to get sickness benefit if you suffer from mental illness. Doctors cannot be at home with you and measure how bad you sleep, how much you cry, how often you feel pressure over your chest or how often you lie on the floor and feel panic, which is the meaning of the objective examination findings. Is it something that lacks rhyme and reason is that administrators at Försäkringskassan can invalidate one or sometimes several doctors' assessments. This is the consequence of the government setting targets for lower sickness benefit rates without changing the legislation. The government could set a different target, for example, that those who are judged sick by a doctor should be entitled to sickness benefit.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-94	Madam President, I would like This government wants to create security for people, both through health insurance and by getting the right support to get back to health and work. Do you have any other idea of what we've been trying to implement, Rossana Dinamarca? We have taken over 50 steps during this parliamentary term to achieve this. When I hear you read these examples, Rossana Dinamarca, I agree with you. The hair rises on my head. I also described in my answer to you that I have had stories about cases where I do not always feel that the individual has received the support that you need to feel safe and get back to health and work again. But, Rossana Dinamarca, it's not like I'm going to sit at the Ministry of Social Affairs and think in my stomach about whether the Social Insurance Agency is complying with the legislation or not. Then it would be a matter of ministerial rule. We in Sweden have an order to make those trials. This system means that you have your right to sickness benefit reviewed by a court. Does Rossana Dinamarca mean that it is the Minister of Social Affairs who should sit in the department and feel in the stomach instead? For that matter, the handling of the Social Insurance Agency may also be subject to scrutiny by the Parliamentary Ombudsman. We have models for how to handle this. On the basis of such judgments, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will apply the law, just like other authorities with equivalent responsibilities. I am not going to read out the entire paper I have here, but it is about the legislation, the regulations that the government has decided on – and the regulations that the Social Insurance Agency leans on to make assessments of work capacity. Let's have some order in the debate. It must be rhyme and reason, Rossana Dinamarca. I am the first to feel that you should take action when people get caught. So has the government. We are currently setting up an investigation to look at the concepts of normal work and special reasons to see if we need to make legislative changes. But from the government we are not waiting for that investigation, but we presented a few other measures less than a month ago from the whole government's toolbox. We are already increasing the security of the individual through government missions, through changes in the regulatory letters and by setting up a national coordinator for health insurance. In addition to the provisions of the Social Security Code, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency also has to deal with procedural provisions at the regulation level decided by the Government and regulations decided by the authority. If the Social Insurance Agency does not comply with the legislation, it should be judged by the court, Rossana Dinamarca, not by the Minister of Social Affairs at the Ministry of Social Affairs.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-100	Madam President, I would like Since the government gave the task to Försäkringskassan regarding reduced sickness benefit rates, the decline has increased significantly, but not because people have become healthier. The level of rejection is actually higher now than in the time of the bourgeoisie in power. It should still say something. Again: It is stated in the law that sick persons must be certified with a medical certificate. Otherwise, there is nothing about the design. But Försäkringskassan does not comply with the law when it makes its assessment of the right to sickness benefit. The Authority has created its own regulatory system without its powers. It has been based on an investigation that could have been the basis for a change of law. That change of law never happened, but the investigation has been used as a basis for its internal rules. It makes it legally insecure, and it's not transparent. A sick person should know what's going on. Administrators should not be able to review doctor's judgements. It is the doctors who have the skills, not the administrators at Försäkringskassan. I don't feel I've got an answer to my question. Although Annika Strandhäll does not seem so keen to answer, I put it again: Does Annika Strandhäll think it is reasonable or not that Försäkringskassan sets up internal rules? If not, what will she do to stop this?
i-c0ee799f49089bed-103	Madam President, I would like I find it remarkable that a Member of the Swedish Parliament, the legislature of this country, is in the Chamber and really without any support – she leans on a number of articles – in a very general way and without any nuances telling the Minister of Social Affairs that the Social Insurance Fund does not comply with the law and that the Minister should sit in the Ministry and direct the Social Insurance Fund through ministerial government, which is not allowed under the government form. During this debate, I have answered on several occasions Rossana Dinamarca how Försäkringskassan is governed and what Försäkringskassan leans against. In addition to the Social Security Code, regulations adopted by the Government apply. In addition, like all other authorities, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has regulations that are decided upon on the authority in order to be able to apply the law in the manner in which it is intended. If the authority does not do this, it is not Rossana Dinamarca or I who will bring it up in Parliament in this way, but it will be tried by a court. It is a fundamental principle of law in this country. Then people should have safe health insurance. I am prepared to do anything to achieve that, and I will use the means at my disposal to achieve this. During this interpellation debate, I have told you what I intend to do. People should be able to feel safe. I will continue to work on it. But this debate is not worthy.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-106	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Warborn has asked me what measures I intend to take to remedy tax legislation so that professional directors can invoice their fees. Under the Swedish Companies Act, positions as a member of the Board of Directors can only be held by one natural person. For this reason, board assignments in practice have been considered to be personal assignments that are normally to be taxed as income from services. In the ruling referred to by Jörgen Warborn, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that the legal situation regarding the taxation of directors' fees has not changed following the amendment of the Act on Income Tax 2009. Board fees shall normally be taxed as income from service. The tax system should be legitimate and fair, which means that citizens and businesses should have a high level of confidence in the system and that taxes should be levied in a legally secure manner. International studies show that companies in Sweden have very good conditions in relation to the outside world. I will follow developments in the business sector to see what possible consequences result from the judgment.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The reason I have presented this interpellation is that last summer the Supreme Administrative Court issued a judgment that changed the conditions for the professional board members. Until then, the Tax Agency had interpreted it as being able to invoice in companies, but after that it was clear that it would be taken up as income from services. This leads to higher taxation for the companies concerned, as well as some other negative consequences. I am not referring to this primarily for the sake of the professional board members, and perhaps not for the sake of the owner-led small and medium-sized enterprises, but because I would like to argue that this could affect Sweden's growth in the long term and the ability to create jobs here in Sweden. Owner-led companies and family businesses choose to take external expertise into their board of directors in certain situations. When you do that, you get the specific expertise that may be needed for the company to grow more strongly than before. According to the entrepreneurs I have spoken to, it is perhaps in this situation that the strategic and long-term work is even more orderly. You start working more properly with business plans and other things that you might need to get your company in order. A professional board member can help the individual company grow and thus hire more. At an aggregate level, this also helps Sweden to grow and create jobs. Unfortunately, the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court points to a future in which we may have fewer people who want to join as professional board members. It will be more expensive for companies to bring in these board members. There are examples that you might start working with so-called advisory boards instead of a regular board. Of course, it primarily affects personal responsibility, which is on a board of directors but not on an advisory board. In an advisory board there are also no union representatives. That is to say, the decisions are taken in practice where the trade union representatives are not present. I have some concerns about this judgment. Unfortunately, I hear from the Minister of Finance's reply that she is quite passive. She's going to follow the trend,' she says. I would have liked her to be more active in the light of certain challenges and problems with the judgment. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: does the Minister for Finance share my description of the long-term contribution of a competent board to growth and jobs in Sweden?
i-c0ee799f49089bed-118	Madam President, I would like Business, well-functioning companies and thus well-functioning boards are of course central to the Swedish economy. We have a very strong business community in Sweden that is at the forefront of technological development and innovation and thus also helps to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness as well as to create jobs, jobs, growth and thus tax revenues so that we can finance welfare. There are of course many different factors that are important for the ability to run companies and businesses in Sweden – that we have well-functioning basic institutions, that there is functioning infrastructure and that there is a skilled workforce, to name a few. Of course, it is also important that there is the possibility of having competent boards of directors in the companies. It is important to point out that the government has not taken a decision on this issue. The legislation is where it is, and then it has been about the interpretation of it. Nor is it a new arrangement in Sweden that board members receive income tax for their board fees, but it was a scheme that was previously in force. I am, of course, interested to hear if Jörgen Warborn has any figures that show that it was more difficult for companies to recruit to the Boards before the Swedish Tax Agency came up with the message that it was possible to invoice the fee in a company instead of referring to it as income from service. But, of course, the government is following developments closely. If we get clear evidence that it will be difficult for companies to recruit people to the board, we will, of course, have to look at the issue.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-122	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister for Finance shares my view that professional boards are important for Swedish owner-led companies and for growth and job creation in Sweden. The Minister of Finance goes on to say that the government has not made a decision in this case. That's right. It is not the decision-making of the government that has led us into the situation we find ourselves in. Rather, it is the judgment that has led to a different interpretation of the tax situation for professional directors. Then it is as soon as possible the lack of government decisions that is the problem. The Minister of Finance is asking me if there have already been any negative consequences. In the Swedish Parliament's Tax Committee we had representatives from the Swedish Board of Directors and the Swedish Remuneration Academy with us for a discussion on this. I have before me a memo that was handed over on that occasion. It is called Consequences of HFD's judgment on the taxation of board fees. In the memo it is written that a number of negative consequences have already been observed. Among other things, it is mentioned that several professional members have announced that they are not available for re-election as a result of this. This is serious because a large proportion of board professionals are women, which in turn has been a key explanation for the improvement in the gender balance of boards in Sweden. Furthermore, it is said that in unlisted companies the British advisory board function has become more common. It is intended to support the ordinary board, which is then still responsible for the board's duties. As a member of an advisory board, the person can invoice his/her services as a consultant. This is a problem that has already arisen. In order to compensate for the negative tax consequences, there will be expectations of higher fees. There are several obstacles to this. The most important thing is that the independent members are professional directors. An increase in fees in order to neutralise the negative impact of the judgment would also entail higher fees for other board members. It is of course problematic for owner-led smaller companies that they would have higher costs for the board, which is so important for growth and job creation. Finally, it is argued that these board members, without access to a limited liability company from which they can invoice, have much more difficulty in securing their own employment security, i.e. taking out pension and health insurance and making reasonable deductions for the costs of office premises, telephones, computers and ongoing skills development. So the answer is: Yes, some negative consequences have already been observed. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance a question. She says that she is following developments and that she has not yet made any decisions. But what will make the Minister of Finance act?
i-c0ee799f49089bed-130	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we monitor developments closely over a period of time. Of course there can be changes when such a verdict has come. But my picture is that it was possible to recruit competent persons to corporate boards even before the Swedish Tax Agency came up with the message that allowed you to take this out in your company. My picture is that it went very well for Swedish business even before 2008. There were many start-ups, and we had a well-developed and thriving business world even at the time. This means that it is not impossible to imagine that in 2018 it will also be possible to have a thriving business with the same taxation rules as in 2008. It is correct that there has been a slightly higher proportion of female directors. However, there is no great drama in those figures. I think it has increased one percentage point over the past year, for example. I would, of course, like to see many more female directors. We have a concrete proposal on this very subject, namely quotas on company boards. If Jörgen Warborn is very interested in having many women on the board of directors, he is very welcome to support the Government's proposal.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-132	Madam President, I would like I raised this as part of a concern about the business environment in Sweden. It's actually bottom-level right now. This is very remarkable because the companies in Sweden are doing very well. This is driven by an international boom. There is therefore a great demand for products and services from large Swedish companies. This in turn leads those companies to demand products and services from subcontractors, who in turn demand products and services from other subcontractors. The boom we see is driven by an international economy. There's a lot of joy around it. The problem is that, despite this, we have a bottom record when it comes to the business environment in Sweden. This is true despite the fact that business is doing well and business is doing well. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise measures this at national level. They measure the business environment. Not since they started the measurements, we have had a worse business environment. I am addressing the government and saying that it is pursuing a direct anti-business policy. This is a small example where the government should be more active. You talk about running an active business policy, but I say you don't. Here the Minister for Finance himself answers that one should wait and follow developments. This is not done in other areas. In other areas, companies are being taxed apart, I would argue. There's been a threat of entrepreneur's tax. It's a flight tax. It's a chemical tax. That's the height of the breakpoint. It's a reduced rate of RUT deduction. And now there's a threat of an exit tax. So there are a whole series of threats to enterprise. Nor do I believe that quotas on company boards are the way forward. It is those who own the companies who will decide who will sit on their boards. But there are many competent women who can take that role.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-137	Madam President, I would like The business climate is at a bottom level," says Jörgen Warborn. Let me read some statistics! In the World Economic Forum's measurement of competitiveness in different countries, Sweden is in place 7 out of 140. Bloomberg measures innovation power. There comes Sweden in place 2 among all countries in the world. Forbes measures the business environment. Sweden has a first place among 139 countries. The Institute for Management Development measures the business environment. Sweden will be on site 5 among 61 countries. The World Bank measures the business environment. Sweden is there in place 10 among 190 countries. It is difficult to see that this is a bottom line in terms of the business environment. I can also point out that in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness index we have moved up compared to the time when the Moderates ruled the country. Not least in terms of economic policy and public finances, we have increased 30 positions compared to when the Moderates ruled the Ministry of Finance. This is, of course, because this government has worked actively to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness by moving from an inefficient tax sink policy to investing in the society that creates long-term competitiveness and long-term growth. Sweden needs a stronger state, not a state weakened by the unfunded tax cuts and privatisations of the Moderates.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-141	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me what measures the government has taken during its term of office to improve the competitiveness and tax conditions for Swedish industry, about the Government's proposals for the future on how the competitiveness and tax conditions for Swedish industry can be more favourable and whether I believe that the tax conditions for Swedish industry affect Swedish competitiveness. Fundamental to business is that we have functional institutions, a well-trained workforce, a well-functioning infrastructure and order and management in public finances. The government's policy during its term of office has strengthened public finances while contributing to strong economic growth, rapidly rising employment and falling unemployment. The Government's goal for enterprise policy is to strengthen competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. Competitiveness is strengthened through efforts so that Swedish companies are given good opportunities to develop their competence, efficiency and innovation capacity. Since the government took office, a number of industrial policy reforms have been implemented to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Let me give you a few examples. The Government decided on the Smart Industry strategy in 2016. An action plan was linked to this with 45 concrete actions, most of which have now been implemented. The government has also decided on the so-called Industriklivet, which is a long-term support for the process industry's technology development. In addition, the government is also making a billion-dollar investment in electrification of the vehicle fleet. The Government has also introduced a system of tonnage taxation to strengthen the competitive conditions of the Swedish shipping industry in relation to the rest of the world. Several of the government's efforts are aimed at SMEs. These include facilitating the taxation of employee options to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key employees by small and start-ups, and the introduction and extension of growth support, which aims to make more companies dare to take the step of hiring their first employee. The Government has extended the RUT deduction to certain gardening services, floating services, IT services and the repair and maintenance of white goods. In addition, the Government has introduced a turnover limit for VAT. In addition, the Government has announced changes in corporate taxation that will improve the neutrality of own and borrowed capital financing and counteract tax planning with interest rebates. According to international reviews on the business and innovation climate – such as Forbes, Bloomberg and the World Economic Forum – Sweden is well positioned. This indicates that companies in Sweden generally have good framework conditions to operate within. However, the Government intends to continue its efforts to further improve these conditions.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-148	Madam President, I would like On the other side of the Atlantic, we have an American President who falls down in a play in which he tries to take credit for the success of the American economy, despite the fact that his policy has hardly entered into force. So he rides on a great boom and tries to take credit for the strong global boom that is now taking place. It turns out that we have a finance minister in Sweden who is not so much better but takes credit for having a historically strong global boom that comes as an effect of a very strong global recession in the form of financial crisis and sovereign debt crisis. Magdalena Andersson is now trying to capitalize on this to send out the image that she is a skilled and capable finance minister. In fact, she is lucky and had the opportunity to take over and rule Sweden after making extensive important reforms to structurally improve Sweden's economy during the time of the Alliance. It is quite clear that this is the way it is, and I would like to give a few examples to clarify it. A few weeks ago we had a seminar in the Tax Committee, where Magdalena Andersson's right hand Leif Jakobsson was asked how the government works to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. He was completely unanswered. The only answer he gave was to make sure that there is order in the world. He thus had no suggestions of his own on how to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. After Leif Jakobsson had been answerless to the Parliament's tax committee, Magdalena Andersson has dug out some examples of how something has been done to strengthen Swedish competitiveness after all. I think the list that we have just heard from the Minister for Finance is interesting, because it is really two different types of proposal that she is presenting here. She mentions proposals that no one has ever heard of, such as smart industry. I googled a smart industry. Even the Social Democrats' own website does not address smart industry as a major effort to improve Swedish competitiveness. So good it was apparently: Not even the Social Democrats' own campaign organisation chooses to highlight this as a major effort to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Is there anyone in the public debate who mentions smart industry and thinks it is something that will strengthen Sweden? I have never heard of it before, at least not in the general debate. The most fun and most ironic thing, however, is that the rest of the proposals that the Minister for Finance is listing here are tax cuts. We have a finance minister who, more than any finance minister in modern times, has lamented how terrible and terrible the Alliance's tax cuts were. When she is asked what she does to strengthen Swedish competitiveness so that Sweden's companies can strengthen and give growth, which is a prerequisite for well-being, she lists some tax cuts. Then all of a sudden, tax cuts are good for competitiveness! The funny thing is that the tax cuts she here points out as positive in order to strengthen Swedish competitiveness are minimal tax cuts. They're good! I support them; everything the government does is not bad. But these tax cuts are minimal, while you are making massive tax increases. It's a bit like Magdalena Andersson going to his children and taking away the Christmas gifts they got at Christmas and then saying that it's Easter now, so now you get some candy. She takes a lot with one hand and gives back a little with the other, and then she tries to show that she is so good. This doesn't make any sense. It is illogical, and it will mean that Sweden's competitiveness will deteriorate.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-160	Madam President, I would like I note that foreign assessors make a different assessment of government policy in terms of strengthening competitiveness. For example, the World Economic Forum believes that Sweden's competitiveness has been strengthened during this government compared to when Fredrik Schultes's moderates were in government position. It is not about the global economic cycle, but it is of course about the fact that the government's policy is quite different. In particular, public finances and macroeconomic stability, which are my responsibility, are two of the areas where Sweden has really strengthened its position. One cannot talk generally about taxes in the way that Fredrik Schulte and the Moderates – who according to a quote from Moderates have tax cuts in their DNA – are happy to do. We Social Democrats have a more pragmatic approach to taxation and we see that we need to have a tax levy in order to finance welfare, which is also important for business. This does not mean that we never think that any tax can be reduced. We see that we should be able to reduce strategic taxes in order to stimulate business. But large, general tax cuts that either lead to public finance deficits or cuts in things that are important for business are not something that benefits business in the long term. Instead, we need money to be able to train workers and to have preschools and schools that work so that children bring with them what they need in order to be productive in the world of work. We also need to invest in continuing training throughout life and higher education, as well as in functioning health care and care for the elderly, which is also important for labour supply. We also need resources for infrastructure and other things. That is why there is no direct link between tax levels, growth and employment in a country, as Moderates like to think. It is a question of levying taxes in a resourceful way and using the money in a resourceful way. The sum will be increased growth and stronger employment, which is exactly what we see the Social Democrats' policy has delivered in Sweden. It also seems to be appreciated by, among other things, the World Economic Forum.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-166	Madam President, I would like How long can one expect to take before one's economic policy has an effect? One such debate was held by Anders Borg and Magdalena Andersson's predecessor Thomas Östros during the previous term of office. It was quite agreed that it would take two three or perhaps four years before one can really begin to see the structural, long-term effects of its policies. This government has really only been in office for three years, because they did not get their budget through the first year. Thanks to the implementation of an alliance budget, public finances were significantly strengthened in the first year. This is above all the case, even if the Minister for Finance should have the honour of not having completely squandered the boom and the surpluses that the state has shown. We will discuss later in another debate to what extent the Finance Minister should have saved more. This is very much about the fact that we are in a boom and that we can therefore show better results in terms of macro-economic stability. We previously had a situation with a historical recession with a financial crisis and a sovereign debt crisis, which meant that a small export-dependent country like Sweden had to carry out major incentives. The Social Democrats agreed to this at the time. Now we are in a boom, and that situation can change, but given the many structural changes that took place during the time of the Alliance, Sweden's competitiveness has been lifted in the long term. However, this government has not contributed a single reform to significantly strengthen Swedish competitiveness, but it is taken for granted. We heard in the previous debate with my colleague, Jörgen Warborn, how a lot of proposals have been put forward which have led to substantial tax increases, although science is very clear that this is the worst type of tax increases that can be implemented. It is a question of raising income taxes, which reduces people's tendency to look for work or work for an extra hour. Companies have also been subjected to large and large-scale tax increases. Not least, a lot of proposals have been made, which have been withdrawn, but which have frightened the business community. The absolute worst that a country can suffer is economic uncertainty. Proposals such as airline tax, truck tax and exit tax, as well as a proposal for increased resolution fees that actually led Nordea to move from Sweden, contribute to creating a climate that means that in the long term Sweden will not strengthen its competitiveness. Magdalena Andersson does not take long-term responsibility for Sweden, but because she is in a boom, she can ride on it and just like Trump try to take credit for that it is somehow she who is the reason it looks good. In fact, the Minister of Finance is taking measures that slowly but surely undermine Swedish competitiveness and Swedish ability to produce wealth. The Economic Institute and the Financial Policy Council have made several assessments of the impact of Magdalena Andersson's policy, such as fewer jobs, that Magdalena Andersson has stopped reporting the employment effect of her policy.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-176	Madam President, I would like The fact that Sweden is rising in international rankings can hardly be related to the global boom but has reasonably something to do with the government's policy. The calculations we have made show the government's overall policy. It is important to look at the overall policy. You have to look at both revenue and expenditure. When we make our calculations, it appears that the government's overall policy has strengthened growth and contributed to increased growth. It is also clear that more than half of the reduction in unemployment is due precisely to government policy. You have to look at the taxes and what the money is used for. The problem with the Moderates is that it becomes a simple thing when you just look at tax cuts and think that they will bring great improvements to society. It is not seen that the large tax cuts lead to large deficits and that the quality of welfare and education is not maintained, which is important for long-term competitiveness. That is why it was so important to change the government's policy. Fredrik Schulte talks about the government having introduced large tax increases for the business community. The biggest change is the youth worker's contribution, which was an expensive and inefficient reduction. When we took over and came into government, youth unemployment was so high that Sweden received crisis support from the EU. It was the result of the policy of the alliance government. The Moderates and many others said that if the change were made, thousands of young people would lose their jobs. But now we see the results of politics. Instead, youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. We have introduced a 90-day guarantee that no young person should go unemployed for more than 90 days without an offer of a job, education or internship. That change has been good because we have used the money to strengthen things that create jobs and growth. It is therefore important to look at both sides, both what is charged in tax and what the money is used for. We know what moderate one-eyedness leads to, namely large tax cuts, poorer welfare and large deficits in public finances – three times out of three possible.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-180	Madam President, I would like Three times out of three possible – Magdalena Andersson should reasonably know his story. She knows that the alliance governments have ended up in situations of record recessions. Now this Finance Minister is sitting on a record boom and trying to take credit for this. She says that Sweden is rising, and she points out that Sweden is rising thanks to strong macroeconomic stability. This is because Sweden is in a boom. Thanks to a financial framework that ensures surpluses, the surplus has increased and thus macroeconomic stability. Thanks to high growth, there is a good increase in employment. Objective analyses of government policies show that, contrary to what the Minister of Finance says, the government's policy structurally leads to fewer jobs. But it is true that the Minister of Finance overstimulates the Swedish economy, does not save enough and does not take into account the fact that there is negative interest and that there should be really good opportunities to tackle a forthcoming recession in a way that we will probably need. It is likely that there will be a moderate Finance Minister next term of office, who will once again have to clean up after a Social Democratic Finance Minister has lived the flea on the Ministry of Finance and has not taken sufficient responsibility. But this debate is, after all, about strengthening Swedish competitiveness. None of the proposals we have heard from the Minister for Finance gives evidence in any way that a policy is being pursued to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. On the contrary, taxes are being increased, and then a little bit of tax cuts are being given back. This is Magdalena Andersson's only argument for why she strengthens Swedish competitiveness.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-183	Madam President, I would like I'll take it one more time, Fredrik Schulte. If Fredrik Schulte believes that it is the global economic boom that makes it a good thing for Sweden and that we are strengthening the political forces solely because of it, I can say that it is the same economic situation in all countries. However, when Sweden is compared with other countries, it appears that Sweden has strengthened significantly in international rankings in terms of macro-economic stability and public finances. The fact that Sweden was strengthened compared to other countries is difficult to explain if Fredrik Schulte believes that everything is due to a global boom. There, Fredrik Schultes's reasoning is not connected.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-185	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me why I have not taken further steps during this term of office to eliminate the tax gap between employees and pensioners. We were clear in the 2014 election campaign. Pensions are deferred wages and should not be taxed higher than labour income. In view of the serious situation in public finances with growing deficits, our promise during the term of office was to close the gap for all income up to $15,000 a month. Barely four years later, we have exceeded that electoral promise. During its term of office, the Government has taken several measures to reduce the tax on old-age pensioners. When our government took office in 2014, we already had in our first budget a reduction in pensioner's tax. However, that budget was voted down in the Riksdag by the bourgeois parties together with the Swedish Democrats. Therefore, it was only in the 2016 budget that a first reduction in pensioner's tax could be implemented. Pensioners' tax will be abolished completely by 2020, and it will be phased out. From this year on, the unfair tax gap for pensioners over 65 who have an income of up to SEK 17 000 a month will be completely closed – that is, SEK 5 000 more than we promised in the election campaign. We also reduce the tax on persons over 65 years of age with income up to just under $5,000 a month. This means that 1 1⁄2 million people over the age of 65 receive reduced tax this year, which is equivalent to 75% of the elderly. Finally, I note that Fredrik Schultes's interpellation seems somewhat surprising. It is the Moderates who, with the job tax deductions, have created the tax differential between wage earners and pensioners that we are now doing everything we can to eliminate. Nor have the Moderates proposed more comprehensive measures than we have, but on the contrary they have proposed a sixth job tax deduction, which would further increase the tax differential between wage earners and pensioners.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-189	Madam President, I would like When the former alliance government came to power, our primary goal was to get Sweden to work. It was a situation in the labour market where exclusion had grown strong despite good years – it was a growth but not a job growth – and hundreds of thousands of people got stuck in early retirement, unemployment benefit and sick leave, although nothing indicated that Swedes' health deteriorated. The starting point of our policy was to make it more profitable to work, to lower taxes on income and lower subsidies so that the gap between living on benefits and working would increase. This would strengthen people's incentives to enter the labour market and work. One step in this was the job tax deduction, i.e. to reduce the tax on labour income. We saw the problem that pensioners and those who do not work do not benefit from the job tax credit. However, we were clear that, as more people get into work, we will gradually have the resources to reduce taxes also for pensioners, which we then did in five steps. The Social Democrats were against the job tax deduction. They were against it when we made the first job tax deduction. Then, a year later, they were for it. They were against the second job tax deduction. Then, a year later, they were for it. They were against the third, the fourth and the fifth. When we get a moderate Minister of Finance next term of office and carry out a sixth job tax deduction, the Social Democrats will be against it. But then, the year after, they'll be for it. It turned out that this strategy was successful. Although we had a historical recession, financial crisis and sovereign debt crisis – the worst since the Second World War, almost – Sweden had a very strong employment growth and economic space to move forward with reduced taxes for pensioners. We did what we said five times, and we made it more extensive than this government has now done. The Social Democrats protested loudly. They said this is unfair. It's not fair to the pensioners. But it turned out that during this term of office, when they had the chance to close this gap, that was not so important. They have not reduced taxes on pensioners as much as the Alliance did. It was much more important for the Minister of Finance to increase the contributions – to increase the contributions for those who do not work and to make it less profitable to work. This in a situation where we have very extensive immigration to Sweden, asylum immigration, where a large proportion comes from countries with low levels of education and find it difficult to establish themselves in the labour market. Then the Social Democrats make it more profitable to go on grants so that more people will get stuck in alienation areas such as Rinkeby, Tensta and Rosengård and we will have more social problems in the future. That is what the Social Democrats and Magdalena Andersson thought was most important – more important than reducing taxes for pensioners. We could have removed the gap between income from work and income for old-age pensioners. But the Social Democrats felt it was more important to raise the contributions for those who do not work. This debate shows very clearly that if you want tax cuts for pensioners, it is the Alliance that you should vote for, because the Social Democrats will always give priority to subsidies over tax cuts.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-198	Madam President, I would like It is now the case that the major tax reduction proposed by the Moderates is not directed at pensioners. On the contrary, the Moderates want to increase the tax gap. That is what Fredrik Schulte is voting in favour of in this House. It is easy to get another impression when listening to Fredrik Schulte, but let us remember that the Moderates introduced the unfair tax gap. The Moderates have no proposal to reduce it more than the government does and have not proposed at any time during their term of office greater tax cuts for pensioners than the government has introduced. On the contrary, the Moderates want to increase the tax gap. The Moderates think it is right and proper that pensioners should pay higher taxes than employees on the same income. We Social Democrats think that is wrong. There is a great ideological difference here. Are we to honor the elderly, who have built this country that we are so proud of, or are we to tax them? We think we should honor the elders. That is why we are removing the tax gap completely, while the Moderates want to keep it and broaden it with a sixth job tax deduction. On the other hand, it is quite correct that this is not the only thing we have done during our term of office. We have also made sure to increase equality in Sweden by, among other things, raising child benefits, which was an election promise that we deliver on. What distinguishes us from Fredrik Schulte, in addition to that we think we should honor our elderly, is that we also take responsibility for public finances. That is why we cannot do everything at once, but the reforms that we are implementing are fully funded. It also distinguishes us from the Moderates, who lower the tax on borrowed money every time they get the chance.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-203	Madam President, I would like We will take this one more time because the Finance Minister did not really follow the line: we are implementing tax reductions in the form of job tax deductions so that it pays more to work and more people living on benefits get into work. We have low unemployment today, yes, overall. But among foreign born, it is record high – almost 15 per cent. We make it more profitable for people to enter the labour market and work, and when more people work and contribute and fewer live on benefits, we get more money. Then we can lower the tax on pensioners. Yes, an injustice is created during a certain period of time — a principled injustice that in the long run leads to the reward being all the greater. This is shown in a comparison between the reign of the Alliance and that of this government. We lowered the tax on pensioners more during the time of the Alliance. Let's take this one more time: the Alliance reduced the tax on pensioners more than this government does. That's because our strategy is smarter. With job tax deductions, it pays to work. More people are coming to work. We have the resources to reduce taxes on pensioners. That strategy is more profitable than the Social Democratic strategy. It also turns out that the Social Democratic strategy is not really a major priority for tax cuts for pensioners. It is much more important for the Socialist Party to increase the subsidies. That is what is always a priority in social democratic budgets. Every time the sossies rule, every time a Social Democratic finance minister presents a budget, what is the main focus? They want to give the impression that it is the core of well-being, but it is always the contributions. It's always the contributions you want to raise. It will also be the answer when we make financial statements with this government and will evaluate what it was that Magdalena Andersson invested in as Minister of Finance – most of the contributions were to not work. This leads to higher costs of exclusion. Ultimately, we will have to spend more money on the police because there is social unrest in exclusion areas and priority is given to spending money on social security systems so that more people get stuck in them. All of this ultimately makes it worse for pensioners. But it is easy for the Minister of Finance to say that there is a fundamental injustice in having a tax difference between working and receiving income through retirement. The financier would rather that the pensioners are poor than that we strengthen the Swedish economy and in the long term can reduce the tax rate for them, just because she thinks it is fundamentally wrong to have a job tax deduction. Then again we see the great irony of the Minister for Finance standing here arguing against the job tax deductions. I promise, Madam President, that when we carry out a sixth job tax deduction in the next parliamentary term, when we have a moderate government, the Social Democrats will protest loudly. But then, the following year, they will be for them. It's a big hypocrisy.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-210	Madam President, I would like Perhaps you should be a little careful to say a lot of hypocrisy. Let me take, for example, the fact that Fredrik Schulte was in the speaker's chair and said that it was terrible that we should increase the social security contribution for young people and that it would make thousands of young people unemployed. But now the Moderates also think it was amazingly well done by the government, and they have no suggestions to change it. Fredrik Schulte says that it was a strategy to first reduce taxes for the people who work. You get a lot in there. With more people working, you get a lot of tax money, and then you can lower taxes for pensioners. It would have been a fantastic strategy – if it had worked. But that is not the case, but the tax cuts made by the Moderates for pensioners were on borrowed money. There was a deficit in public finances. The fifth job tax deduction that the Moderates wanted to carry out was also on borrowed money. Therefore, the main deficit since the budgetary adjustment was left behind. We Social Democrats, on the other hand, make sure that we have money in our hands when we implement this kind of tax cuts. That is why we can implement fully funded tax cuts for pensioners. With regard to the idea that the job tax deductions would be self-financing, that if you make additional job tax deductions you get so much more tax revenue that it becomes a plus business for the state, it is a large number of economists who point out that this is not the case. In fact, tax cuts reduce revenue. A sixth job tax deduction would also reduce revenues to the State in the long term. Fredrik Schulte is very upset about the reinforcements we have made of our insurance systems. He means it's going to increase alienation. I find it difficult to see that an increase in child benefit increases exclusion or that the fact that single parents have received an increase in child support increases exclusion. That cancer sufferers should not automatically be insured– it is not my view that it increases exclusion. But there we can have different views.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-216	Madam President, I would like No, I think the Minister of Finance is confusing me with some other Moderate. There are probably many Moderates who have stood here in the speaker's chair and complained about the youth tax. I didn't do it. I can say afterwards that the reduction in youth tax was not the best reform of the Alliance. We should have given priority to reducing income taxes instead. My criticism of the tax increase was rather that if you raise a tax and use the money to invest in grants, the overall effect will be negative. All objective assessors' evaluations of the government's various budgets say the same thing: structurally, they lead to greater exclusion. As far as the policy of the alliance government is concerned, however, the evaluations of objective, independent actors were very clear: it strengthened employment. During the 30 years up to 2015, half a million new jobs were created – 350,000 of them during the Eight Year of the Alliance – and this despite a record recession. Now we are in a record boom, and the Swedish economy under the Ministry of Finance is not performing as well. Of course, it is also a lie on the part of the Minister for Finance that the Moderates would like cancer patients to have their health insurance withdrawn. We corrected those problems with the social security system. What Magdalena Andersson does not want to talk about is the general increase in benefits, such as the increase in unemployment insurance, which has made it less profitable to work. This means that exclusion increases in alienation areas and that in the future we will have more social problems in Sweden because of the government's policy.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-221	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Fredrik Schulte you can easily get the impression that alienation decreased during the Moderate period in power, but the Party Secretary of the Moderates has himself stood with maps and showed how alienation increased during the eight years of the Alliance. The number of exclusion areas increased sharply in those years. So the Moderates themselves seem to have concluded that their policies have increased exclusion. Now, with this government's policy, we have the lowest dependence on various forms of compensation since the early 1990s. That is how it looks three and a half years into this term of office. Fredrik Schulte also says that we have strengthened the unemployment fund. I would just like to point out that what we have done is to raise the ceiling of the unemployment fund. It takes a certain income to get up to that ceiling. The groups referred to by Fredrik Schulte do not have that income.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-224	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to achieve a financial saving of 1% of GDP over the business cycle. When this government took office, we inherited a deficit of SEK 60 billion from the former bourgeois government. Even in structural terms – that is, when we clean up for the impact of the economic cycle – the deficit was large, and this can be explained by the permanent unfunded tax cuts carried out by the previous government. We promised to turn the deficit into a surplus, as we have done. Over the past three years, the government has consistently put investments in sustainable society before unfunded and unfair tax cuts. At the same time, responsibility for public finances has characterised reform policies, and today the results are evident in both stronger public finances and lower unemployment. As a result, both financial and structural savings from 2016 onwards are deemed to be in line with the surplus target. Furthermore, the government considers that the fiscal stance in the future will provide an appropriate transition to the new, lower surplus target, while remaining in line with the current target for financial savings. The big difference between the policy of the bourgeois opposition and that of the government is that we account for surpluses while investing in the construction of society, while the bourgeois opposition prioritises permanent tax cuts that result in structural deficits.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-229	Madam President, I would like The value and need for budgetary surpluses cannot be stressed enough. We have sad experiences from southern Europe in particular, with Greece as the worst example of what happens in a country if you constantly gas and spend more money than you get in. Finally, this leads to the collapse of the economy, a stagnating growth and massive cuts in welfare. This affected almost all European countries during the financial and sovereign debt crisis, but it did not affect Sweden. Sweden had under the alliance government a responsible surplus policy; we made sure that plus and minus went together. Magdalena Andersson tries to convey the picture that the alliance government did not take that responsibility and that the current government inherited a large deficit – 60 billion SEK has been mentioned by the Minister of Finance. What she does not mention is that during the previous parliamentary term, with the agreement of the Social Democrats, she herself wrote her name under 52 of these billions. Her rhetoric and practical reality are therefore not quite consistent. We had, as I was at work, during the time of the Alliance in power a historical recession, which motivated the investment and stimulation of the economy. As I said, the Social Democrats were in favour of this at the time. Now we are in a historic boom, and then you have to save. We do so in Sweden, and the Minister for Finance does. We had a little while ago a debate in which Magdalena Andersson tried to make a point of the fact that if Sweden is doing well in rankings thanks to increasing our macroeconomic stability, the same should also apply to other countries – the boom is global. The problem is that many other countries do not save during a boom, but we do. During a boom, Sweden therefore sets off in rankings of, for example, competitiveness. There's the Minister for Finance's explanation. The problem is that we are not saving enough given the boom. There is a special reason why this particular boom, perhaps more than anyone in the past, is important to use to put away money in the face of bad times. We have a negative interest rate in Sweden today. When there is a recession in one, two or three years, the Riksbank will not be able to remedy it and stimulate the economy by lowering interest rates. In a recession, we will therefore be completely dependent on the then government having the muscles to spend and bet. This problem has not been mentioned at any time by the Minister for Finance in the many debates that have taken place around the surplus policy. After all, the most interesting thing I think is that we are about to get a new surplus target that will enter into force on 1 January 2019. But the Minister of Finance pretends that the surplus target is already in place. She thus ignores the fact that, until 1 January 2019, we still have a 1% surplus target and acts as if the new surplus target of 0.3% of GDP is what applies.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-236	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte says that the alliance government made sure that plus and minus went together, but the alliance government did not. Major deficits were left behind, the largest since the budget adjustment last time the Moderates were in the Ministry of Finance. It wasn't just in crowns and the ear we had a big deficit. You also left behind a large structural deficit, that is, a deficit when the economic cycle is taken into account. So there too, plus and minus did not go together. On the other hand, we have managed to create surpluses. Now pluses and minuses go together, not just because of the business cycle. We have also strengthened structural savings, so that we now also have a structural surplus. That is the difference between Moderates and Social Democrats. Moderates leave behind deficits, even when the economic cycle is taken into account. We Social Democrats are in order in public finances and make sure we have surpluses, even when the economy is taken into account.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-238	Madam President, I would like There was an evaluation a couple of years ago by Swedish fourth graders. One of the results found in the measurement called Timss was that a lot of people had difficulty getting the correct answer to the question: How much is 61 minus 59? Many students concluded that the correct answer was 18. You might find that odd. But when the kids were interviewed, they said that 5 minus 6 is 1, and 1 minus 9 is 8, and then it's 18. It is a sad example of Swedish school not working. The Minister of Finance doesn't seem to be able to count much better. She says here that the Alliance caused 60 billion in deficit. She herself presented Social Democratic opposition budgets with a deficit of EUR 52 billion which she approved. What's 60 minus 52? It's 8. It is therefore 8 billion that she thinks is the scandalous structural deficit that the Alliance contributed. This is just empty rhetoric. The Minister of Finance is a very skilled debater and rhetorical. I want to give it to her. But it's just empty rhetoric, and she knows it deep down. Out of 60 billion in deficit, the Social Democrats supported 52. Come on! This is ridiculous. It is even more interesting that the surplus we have today is a little stronger than it would have been, thanks to the Alliance's budget going through the Riksdag in 2015. We can stand here and argue about how it was and how it should have been done. But the interesting thing is the future. As far as the future is concerned, we have a finance minister who has taken measures to reduce savings and lower the surplus target from 1% to one third and who pretends that the new surplus target of one third is now in force, when it actually comes into effect in one year's time. I ask my question because I do not want to be hasty about the KU report to the Minister for Finance because she does not comply with the rules on the surplus target. I wondered if she could justify and explain how it is that she is pretending that the new regulatory framework is in place now and has done so in recent years. But I obviously do not get such an explanation. Then I guess there's only one KU notification on this point. We will probably have a really bad recession in the coming years, because this government is spending a lot more money than it should because we have not saved enough and because we have a negative interest rate. When the next recession strikes, the Riksbank will therefore not be able to help so that Swedish borrowers receive lower interest rates. That is why a future alliance government will probably have a lot to clean up after this finance minister. Instead, she has chosen to bet a lot of money. Instead of saving in good times, she spends a great deal of money on increasing the benefits for those who do not work, so that exclusion becomes greater and social problems in the exclusion areas increase. Madam President, I would like This can go very quickly. In the UK, public debt almost doubled between 2009 and 2010, i.e. in one year. It can be very fast. And this Finance Minister pretends that there is no future, and that is worrying.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-246	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order, I would like to point out that the Alliance Government's budgetary motion that passed through the day was weaker in financial terms than the budget proposal that I had submitted to this House in autumn 2014 – the 2015 budget. It is our assessment, as can be read in the budget bill, that the government's fiscal policy is fully in line with the current surplus target. And we have greatly strengthened our finances. If Fredrik Schulte is going to file a KU notification, he should probably start with my predecessor, Anders Borg, who apparently violated the surplus target, given that we had a structural deficit approaching 1 percent during that time. Order and order in public finances are a prerequisite for us to have a welfare state. It is through order and order in public finances that we can guarantee secure financing for our common welfare. It is this common welfare that we Social Democrats think is so important. That is why social democrats and social-democratic governments have always ensured that there is order and order in public finances. We know that if we do not have order when the economic cycle turns around, it is precisely those who are most dependent on our common well-being who are at risk of paying the price. We saw it after we took over after the bourgeois government in the early 1990s and had to reschedule the budget. It is precisely because we think it is important to have a good preschool and school for all children, safe healthcare for everyone and a safe care for the elderly that we think it is important to have order in public finances. It is precisely this policy that we have been pursuing during this parliamentary term. We have turned deficits into surpluses and created order in public finances, which also means that we have the resources to invest in school, childcare, preschool, health care and care for the elderly. We have been able to expand adult education, so that more people get the education that allows them to also take the jobs that are now emerging. We now see that 250 000 more people go to work than when the government took office. All of this can be done because we are in order in public finances. Fredrik Schulte says that we increase contributions to people who do not work. I think it is good that we can raise child allowances. This is something that goes to all families with children and, as I know, is a welcome addition to many families with children, not least to those who have a little less income. I also think it is very sensible that we have increased maintenance support for single parents. We know what an incredibly tough situation many single parents, not least mothers, are in. It is also a good thing that we have abolished the backlog in health insurance, because it allows people who get sick to feel confident that they are not being insured at a certain date. It was an inhuman way to go about it. It is also good that we have raised the ceiling in the unemployment fund, because it strengthens employees' opportunities in the labour market. It is an important and central part of the Swedish model, which has built this country strongly.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-251	Madam President, I would like Now I do not remember the exact figure, but if you as a single mother of three live on welfare benefits, you have to – as a result of the many social security increases and reinforcements the government has made – come up in an income of almost SEK 30 000, I think it was, in order for it to pay off to work. And so the Minister for Finance wonders why we have great alienation and large alienation areas with, for example, 15% unemployment among foreign-borns. The government has raised the unemployment fund so that when he becomes unemployed, the director receives more unemployment benefit than the waitress who gets his first job paid. That's what the Minister of Finance calls justice. In particular, the government has invested in raising subsidies and making it less profitable to work. It has structurally weakened and undermined Sweden's long-term future and prosperity. Above all, the Minister for Finance is not saving enough. The Alliance wants to save 16 billion more than this government. We can sit and debate what has been, but the Minister for Finance is wrong that the S budget for 2015 would have been tighter than the alliance budget. However, we can come back to that issue. The Minister of Finance can pretend that the Alliance was the only 60 billion in deficit, but we have decisions and protocols showing that the Social Democrats supported 52 of these billions. It's just rhetoric and empty words. The interesting thing is, as I said, the future. The future is that the Alliance is putting away more money for hard times, and the future is that this government does not see the seriousness of the Riksbank having a negative interest rate and that we can go for a big bang in the next recession. Then we'll have to clean up after the Minister of Finance.
i-c0ee799f49089bed-255	Madam President, I would like Now the history of Swedish economic policy shows that it is Social Democraticly led governments that have cleaned up after moderate-led governments – three times out of three possible in modern times. Fredrik Schulte may say that it is only about Moderates having had bad luck, but then of course the Swedish people wonder why to vote for someone who always has bad luck. It is important that we build shelters for the future; we know that the recession will come sooner or later. That is also exactly what this government has done, unlike what the Moderates did when they last sat on the Ministry of Finance. Despite the fact that it was an upward economic cycle, the entire Swedish people were in debt to lower taxes most for those who earn the most. It's classic moderate action. We have, on the other hand, created order in public finances. We have ensured that, during our term of office, we have reduced public debt by 10% units. Order and order and low public debt – that's what creates muscle to cope with a coming recession. It will come sooner or later, and the government has made sure to equip Sweden. Fredrik Schulte says that government policy leads to increased exclusion. If you look at the figures, you can see that this is not the case; on the contrary, we have the lowest proportion of people living on different compensations since the early 80s. That is the result of this government's policy: order and order in public finances, 250 0 00 more going to work, 10 percent units lower public debt and the lowest rate of compensation since the early 80s. That is how this government has ruled the country.
