i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-15	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that, of course, we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 17. Madam President, I would like On 17 December 2010, Tunisia lit the spark of what came to be the Arab Spring. It was the unemployed academic Mohammed Bouazizi who set himself on fire in protest against living conditions in the country, after the police had seized his vegetable cart. It was an obviously desperate person who eventually saw no other way out than to demonstrate and try to draw attention to his or her situation and that of others. It was not the first time people in desperation had tried to direct the spotlight on the conditions in the countries of this region. But this time it was different. The rebellion took off and soon spread to Tunis, the capital. During the spring of 2011, demonstrations and protests spread widely across a wide range of countries such as Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Syria, Yemen and Bahrain. Even in countries such as Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Morocco and a further handful of countries there were protests. The peoples had had enough of corrupt and authoritarian regimes and were now acting to bring about a change. Initially, the Arab Spring also led to important changes when, for example, the regimes of Tunisia, Egypt and Libya fell. The hopes that all of this would lead to democracy and real improvements for the great masses were enormous. Unfortunately, we are forced to note today that developments in several of the countries, from those burgeoning streaks of hope following the fall of the regimes, have turned into new tragedies and into new totalitarian regimes or decaying states. Just Tunisia, where it all started, is possibly – I might say – the only exception. It's not at all without problems or risks but still. In other countries, the regimes offered much more stubborn resistance. Civil wars and deep internal divisions, which move across several dimensions, still characterise countries such as Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya. Madam President, I would like To go through in detail all countries or areas of conflict in the region in such a debate is difficult to do. However, some impact I thought I would do to describe the complexity of what is happening and to motivate our view of what needs to be done. On an overall level, the contradiction between Iran and Saudi Arabia is of course important, where the background is religious contradictions between different parts of Islam and between groupings within Shia- and Sunniislam respectively. But, of course, real political considerations also play a major role in the countries' actions today. To think otherwise would be naive. We are seeing today how this power struggle between the two leading centres of power in the Muslim world affects and sometimes even plays a crucial role in the ongoing conflicts in other countries, as both Yemen and Syria are examples of. Yemen is the area that, in ancient times, was called Arabia felix, the happy Arabia, and was then a prosperous and rich country. Today, the situation in Yemen is described as hell on earth in a conflict that is given far too little attention. The UN estimates that three-quarters of Yemen's population of 28 million people are totally dependent on humanitarian aid, but that in many places it is impossible for humanitarian aid to reach its destination at all. We cannot be indifferent to this ongoing disaster. Both the EU and the UN need to put pressure on the countries that govern or influence the conflict in Yemen, first and foremost to ensure that aid comes through and then to bring about a long-term solution. In order to meet the urgent humanitarian situation, not least in several parts of this region, we see a need to re-prioritise development aid to humanitarian aid. Urgent needs will remain high. Madam President, I would like The war in Syria is now in its eighth year and has developed into one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of our time. Over a quarter of a million people have lost their lives, and more than half of the Syrian population of 20 million people are now on the run inside or outside their country. Repeated war crimes, most recently through the regime's supposed Kem weapons attack on civilians in the city of Douma, have shown that the regime does not shun any means. That is why we understand the military action of the United States, the United Kingdom and France in order to destroy the regime's ability to use chemical weapons. It is unlikely to bring this terrible war closer to an end, but it was a necessary mark and an important signal. The war in Syria and the international community's inability to contribute to a solution is a monumental failure. The paralysis of the UN Security Council following Russia's repeated use of its veto on issues relating to Syria and the apparent unwillingness of some of the parties to try to contribute to constructive solutions to the conflict underline the need for reform also in the way the UN operates and not least in the Security Council. We support the UN's efforts to find a political solution to the conflict in Syria and call on all parties to the conflict to comply with international humanitarian law. It is essential that UN resolutions are respected and that a cease-fire occurs in Syria. Finding a long-term solution to the conflict is crucial for the stability of the whole region. Madam President, I would like Today, the state of Israel is 70 years old. It is well worth celebrating, not least in view of the fact that Israel is still today in fact the only functioning democracy in the Middle East. The long-standing Israeli-Palestinian conflict sometimes tends to be a little overshadowed by the other major conflicts in the region, but it is nevertheless urgent that efforts to achieve a peaceful and long-term solution continue. During the past autumn there were some hopeful signals. The talks between Egypt, Fatah and Hamas, with a new leadership, might eventually lead to necessary changes. Unfortunately, however, much now points to a recoil back to a situation of new unrest, and Gaza risks, at the same time, once again becoming a pawn in an internal Palestinian power game about future leadership. The talk of a new intifada, a new and growing rebellion, is heard again. Let me be clear: Israel's right to security must be respected! The questioning, in the words or actions of Palestinian leaders or others, of Israel's right to exist is unacceptable and must end if long-term peace is to be achieved. At the same time, the right of Palestinians to their territories shall be ensured. Our view is that this can only be achieved through a two-state solution, where both parties can live with safe and recognised borders. We want to see clear steps towards an improvement in the political, security and economic situation with regard to Gaza, including the opening of border crossings to Gaza. At the same time, Israel's legitimate safety requirements must be met. We Moderates were critical of the government and what we consider to be premature and ill-considered recognition of the state of Palestine, probably more intended to satisfy an internal party opinion than to produce real results. But now that the government has taken this path, we believe that it has actually taken on an extra responsibility in trying to influence the Palestinians in the right direction and clearly raise issues such as democracy and human rights. Unfortunately, we are seeing how Palestine continues to develop in a worrying direction of incitement to violence, indoctrination and hate speech. One way to influence is through aid. In order for Sweden to make a real difference in Israel – the Palestine conflict, aid must be characterised by clear requirements, transparency and follow-up. Sweden must ensure that the Palestinian Authority and other actors meet requirements such as democratic principles, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption in order to obtain Swedish aid. Madam President, I would like The fight against international terrorism is of concern to all of us. Although Daish has been driven back from much of the territory previously controlled by the terrorist organisation, Daish continues to pose a threat. We believe that Sweden should be prepared to do more also militarily to fight Daish. To fight terror is to fight for human rights. Madam President, I would like It is easy to feel discouragement when you take note of what is happening in parts of the Middle East and North Africa today. The hope that was lit in the spring of 2011 has changed to despair in so many places. Many have probably thought that it might have been better if the Arab spring had never taken place, that it would have been calmer and more stable without the popular uprisings if the regimes had never been challenged. That is a completely wrong conclusion. Democracy, international law and human rights are the foundations for which we must always have the courage, the will and the strength to stand up. The most powerful weapon of the oppressor is fear, but against fear stands hopefulness. Only if we can make people feel the hope of a better tomorrow can we defeat the oppressors. Therefore, one of our most important tasks is to keep hope alive.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-40	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the UU report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs14. It is a report dealing with issues relating to the Middle East and North Africa. It is a region whose development, instability and conflicts have long affected the people of the region and are still affecting the people who live there. In view of this, I thought a long time before the debate about where to really focus and where to start. How can you spend eight minutes in an area characterised by so many ethnic, religious, territorial and financial conflicts? Madam President, I would like That's impossible. And I realize now that I've wasted time. But, no, the fact is that it is not a waste of time to point out the problem. We see a situation that shows how difficult it is to understand how everyday life in these countries looks. It is even more difficult to find solutions from a country far away. But now we are standing here, and we must do what we can to achieve positive development and support the people affected by all the problems. We must do what we can to pursue a policy that represents a strong and positive development not only for them but also for countries around us, for us in Sweden, which is ultimately also affected by what is happening there. Then we're back to square one. We shall promote positive development. We should be principled and guided by common sense. This is something that I think most people here agree with. But why do we have so many different opinions about what to do in the region and what policy to take towards the region? That is a question that remains to be answered. Madam President, I would like I can begin with the simple observation that the national borders once created by third parties have come to light in difficult conflicts. Let us cite the situation of the Kurds as an example. Depending on the country in which the Kurds are located, they are discriminated against in different ways. In some places, they have managed to build up what is closest to being a well-functioning state apparatus, as in Syria today. Elsewhere, they have almost direct independence, as in Iraq. Elsewhere, as in Turkey, they are denied existence and are actively attacked by the authoritarian and imperialist regime of Erdo The fact that we should support the Kurds, who, in spite of everything, have already been promised a country of their own in view of their current area, is self-evident to me. That we should support them in their fight against the extremists who are ravaging the area is also an issue that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time. The Kurds have long had a close relationship with the West and are in many respects the most secular, equal and democratic forces against Islamists and other intolerant groups. Yet they receive virtually no support from the Western world. You hardly lift a finger to lift up the Kurds' situation in the Middle East. While we are talking about different minorities, as we know, there are a wide range of groups which are currently having a difficult time, not least during the terrible ravages of the Islamic State. We have read about the Yazidians who have been murdered, enslaved and harassed. We have also seen how the Christian groups have had a difficult time in the whole region we are debating today. The example of Mosul speaks for the vulnerable situation of Christians in Syria and Iraq. It can only be described as ethnic cleansing, religious and cultural genocide. Since 2014, the mostly Christian inhabitants of the Nineves plain in Iraq have had a self-governing Assyrian province. There are real opportunities here to demonstrate Swedish solidarity and to assist with the support that exists for them to retain faith, identity and home and above all to strengthen their position in their already existing province. It won't stop there. The least we can do for vulnerable minorities is demonstrate our unequivocal support for the victims of the Islamic State. We should follow the Council of Europe resolution and recognise the terrorist campaigns of the Islamic State in recent years in Iraq and Syria against, in particular, Armenians, Kurds and Yazidians as genocide. Of course, we should also acknowledge the terrible genocide that took place in the near-open curtain under the Ottoman Empire in 1915, which came to be an inspiration to both the Nazis in Germany and the Islamists under IS and other brutal groups. The fact that there are commemorations, no later than Tuesday 24 April, for the 1.5 million people who were murdered is, of course, a good thing. But it is hardly enough when Sweden has formally not even recognised the genocide. Madam President, I would like The confidence of the Swedish democrats in Fatah, the PLO and the Palestinian Authority is very low – to put it mildly. They have shown no improvement but still pay terrorists, call for acts of terrorism and help spread anti-Semitic propaganda, directly or indirectly. In addition, the Palestinian Authority has had enormous problems with corruption, discrimination against women and the rule of law. Minister Wallström has declared that the government intends to impose counter-claims in exchange for recognition. But apparently no such demands have ever been made. Both aid million and heads continue to roll. In connection with the Swedish government's very regrettable recognition of the state of Palestine, a new five-year performance strategy for bilateral development aid was launched, and the support developed with SEK 500 million over a five-year period, which amounts to a total of SEK 1.5 billion. Since 1994, EU taxpayers have given over SEK 50 billion to the Palestinians, despite the fact that we see no improvement and that corruption is enormous. Among other things, the former Chairman of Palestine International Bank Issam Abu Issa has confirmed this. The support that has been given directly or indirectly to the Palestinian authorities not only shows a moral decay on the part of Sweden, but also shows that placard politics is chosen over common sense – this despite the fact that the support is extremely counterproductive. In this context, I can only regret that the same politicians who defend the export of funds that finance anti-Semitism and hatred then also complain about increased anti-Semitism in Sweden, as immigrant groups from that region come to our country. Madam President, I would like Palestinian aid needs to be examined more clearly, and Sweden needs to make high demands on the Palestinian Authority that it complies with democratic principles, combats corruption and respects human rights in order for it to receive bilateral assistance. The Palestinian Authority must stop all rewards and tributes of terrorism. It must demonstrate willingness to govern in accordance with democratic principles and human rights and in a peaceful relationship with Israel. We are proposing the phasing out of aid as long as the Palestinian Authority does not meet these fairly obvious demands. As I mentioned earlier, there is an enormous amount more I would like to say and talk about the very worrying developments in the region, such as the forgotten humanitarian crisis in Yemen, which is still the world's largest, the situation in Syria and Iraq, Turkey's increasingly worrying behaviour, events in the Wahhabist and Salafist state of Saudi Arabia, the government's betrayal of the people of Afrin province in north-west Syria and the government's profligacy towards the rogue state of Iran. I would like to talk about developments in North Africa and the work to strengthen entrepreneurship and the position of women in this region, but certainly also the important work on well-functioning democratisation and Swedish work to strengthen democratisation throughout the world. As you know, however, time is short, which is why I am counting on those who have doubts about the attitude of the Swedish democrats in these areas to read our documents, which show our firm principles and also that it is facts and common sense that characterise our entire foreign policy. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 16. But, of course, I support all the SD reservations.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-56	Madam President, I would like This is the second time in this parliamentary term that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is presenting a report on the Middle East and North Africa on the table of this House for debate. Last time it was UU12 2015/ 16, when we discussed motions. Here, Madam President, we now have more than 200 claims that we have dealt with. Of course, it governs the debate and also the report, because the reader may wonder where the other issues come into the report. It is clear that we are talking about the Middle East and North Africa, there are very many issues and perspectives that should be included in an all-embracing report. But this is a motion report. Madam President, I would like The situation in the Middle East and North Africa affects us in very many ways and has done so for so long, throughout history. We have also influenced the situation from our horizon. Leaders in different countries and the international community have shown here the inability to resolve conflicts, build inclusive societies and deal with ancient and new power struggles, but also people's hopelessness and dreams, which can actually also feed conflicts. Daish is part of this. The clearest reign of terror we have experienced in recent times developed in Iraq and moved on into Syria and many other areas in the Middle East and North Africa. There is no doubt, Madam President, that crimes against humanity and certainly genocide have been committed here. I'm talking about yazidians. We have seen how it has affected women and girls. Many of us have met, heard and talked to some about the terrible experiences they have had to experience. Of course, this is something we have to try. It must be tried legally by the ICC or a special tribunal dealing with precisely Daish's ravages in the area. It is a prerequisite for justice and also for people to feel that their voices are heard and that they are not trampled on again, which can be the basis for a new conflict. Daish, who therefore started in Iraq and has moved on, must be combated in all areas and by all means – including military. We have also contributed to this from the Swedish side. Now we say that we almost fought Daish, that the victory is won. But I think the committee's report is wise to point out that Daish is still a threat. Victory is not won. The ideas and dreams behind it, which attracted so many people to travel to the area from Sweden and other countries and which caught so many people in the area, are something that must be met in broad range. It is important that we also work bilaterally and globally here to try to stop also the financial resources and flows, which were initially created by forces in the area. There is a need for inclusive state-building and political solutions to the conflicts, in such a way that the land is not once again fattened for new terrorists like Daish to develop. The war in Syria is about the eighth year. Half the population is on the run. We see clear ethnic relocation. The next area that we will see is probably Idlib. We see a regime that uses chemical weapons against its own population, as we have seen Saddam do in the past against the Kurds. We also see Russia's actions in the Security Council. The possibility of taking responsibility in the international community has been completely blocked. There has been a vote in favour of resolutions on humanitarian access that have never been fully effective. The last time we voted again for a resolution on the ceasefire, which was never effective. Instead, it was a chemical attack on its own population. This gives the impression that the Security Council and the international community are not capable of resolving or preventing the conflict. I am, of course, sorry about this. The horror lies in the fact that this opens the door for the conflict to continue – and continues to spread. An inclusive peace process is needed. There has been talk of the Kurds in the past, and it is important to see here too that the Kurds must be involved in a peace process in Syria. To move forward, it takes everyone to be included. Unfortunately, this has been blocked by one of the players: Turkey. Turkey, together with Iran and Russia, has launched its own journey in the form of the Astana process. Even there they say they want peace in the form of a cease-fire, which has not become a reality. There is a proxy war going on in Syria; many have said so. There are many players at all kinds of different levels, from street to world level. The risk now is that we will have a new development phase linked both to Israel and to what follows if the US leaves Syria and is replaced by military from the Gulf states or Saudi Arabia. We can only see what has happened in Yemen and fear what may come in Syria as a result of this. It is important to hold on and be gentle in that part, and I hope that we do not have an American withdrawal now. We are also talking about safe and protected zones. Madam President, I would like We have not believed in such solutions. We've seen them, but they've never held. We are now seeing how Turkey is trying to build a protected zone, as they say. They've always wanted it, and now they're trying to do it. They do so by entering Afrin and thus opening the door to create the protected buffer zone that they want to drive away Kurds. So there are different motives for these protected zones. Given the capacity of the international community in this area, I think it is wise to do as the committee does and not go that way. A great deal can be said about Christian minorities. I could have said a lot about Turkey, which is facing an election on 24 June in a situation that is absolutely devastating. It is not possible to have a process that is free and fair. But time passes, Madam President, so I just want to land by touching Israel-Palestinian. For our part, we have touched on the issue of recognition in a specific opinion. We think that Sweden has lost. The government admitted but had not put it in a context, which meant that it then became quiet and lost years, when Sweden has not been able to act in the way that one could expect. This is very regrettable and deserves criticism. I would like us, just as we can congratulate Israel for 70 years, to have been able to congratulate Palestine for at least 20 to 25 years or so. But we are not there, and the peace process is very still. In that situation, we shall not phase out aid to the Palestinian Authority, because it would destroy and make it even more difficult. However, we must be clear about examining and ensuring that it is not used to reinforce conflicts or increase contradictions, anti-Semitism and so on. It is important that we review and monitor aid. We have done so on behalf of the committee, and we have reason to do so again. I would like to ask you to accept Amendment No 17 in paragraph 7, the reason why we reject a motion. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the other proposals of the committee.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-74	Madam President, I would like The day before yesterday, April 24, people gathered around the world to honor those who fell victim to the genocide in 1915 in the Ottoman Empire. We cannot prevent the terrible abuses that have taken place, but we can learn from history and honour the victims by ensuring that it does not happen again. When we see how human rights are violated, we will offer protection to the sisters and brothers who are seeking it here in Sweden and, of course, in every way pressure the regimes that are carrying out these atrocities to put an end to them. It is so extremely difficult not to feel sorrow and anger when trying to describe the situation in North Africa and the Middle East. In Syria and Yemen, we see the worst humanitarian and human disasters of our time. In Libya, we see those who are trying to do everything to escape the violence by going to Europe being pushed down by the coastguard, who has received money from the European Union. In Western Sahara refugee camps, the third generation of refugees is growing. In Gaza, people who protest against the Israeli occupation meet with soldiers' bullets. The dictatorships in Riyadh, Abu Dhabi and Tehran show no sign whatsoever of wanting to open up to the necessary reforms. The war in Syria has been going on for seven years and is believed to have cost some 500 000 lives. Around 6 million people are on the run outside the country's borders and about 7 million within the country's borders. As the ad-regime has repeatedly shown enormous brutality against its own population with bombings and chemical stimuli. There is much evidence that the As ad-regime is behind the gas attack in Douma on April 7. However, this needs to be investigated, and the UN needs to discuss the consequences of the attack. A violation of international law does not justify another violation of international law. There is a great risk that the conflict will now escalate with bombings from the United States with allies. The risk of escalation with more violence and more people forced to flee is increasing. Sweden must insist on peace negotiations via the United Nations and on countries such as Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey ending fuelling and contributing to the war in Syria. Those responsible for war crimes shall be brought to justice. Our role must be to uphold international law and call for negotiations and for humanitarian aid to reach the people of Syria. I would like to talk about Turkey, which has not only embarked on an authoritarian road but has actually made it a one-way road. All forms of opposition to the rule of Erdo中an are now met with violence, arrests and repression. Not only has the ruling AKP party found ways to imprison parliamentarians from the opposition party HDP – now they are also attacking Afrin. It is an attack that is contrary to international law and international law. The aim is to crush the Kurdish population in Syria and their fight for a peaceful area that strives for democratic and human rights and free elections. Madam President, I would like It is easy to feel hopeless about the development of the region. At the same time, we must not forget all those men and women around the Middle East and North Africa who continue to fight for peace, democracy, equality, LGBT rights and social justice with a high level of effort. Tunisia has managed to defend its achievements through democratic elections and has actually adopted a constitution that strengthens women's rights. In May, the municipal elections that are seen as a step in Tunisia's transition to democracy are planned. In Lebanon too, elections are planned in May, the first in almost a decade. In Turkey, the left party HDP continues to defy the authoritarian rule of Erdo中an. Even inside Syria, we see how courageous people are trying to lay the foundations for a democratic society beyond As Ad's dictatorship and Daish's violence. In Rojava, northern Syria, Kurdish forces and their allies have been successful in defending their villages and cities and winning the battle against Daish. It is important to emphasise that the development of the Middle East and North Africa is in no way predestined. These are not invisible hands that have created dictators and fuel wars and conflicts. The future of the Middle East and North Africa is determined by the choices that the region's men and women face, but also by how we in the outside world and in Sweden choose to relate to them and their countries. Our task, Sweden's task, is to be a clear ally and friend of all those who daily continue the struggle for democracy, for peace, for minorities, for feminism and for women's and girls' rights. We all have the opportunity to be such a clear friend and ally. But then action is also required behind the fine words. If we are to be a force for peace and democracy, we cannot continue to arm dictatorships that fuel the armed conflicts. We must strangle the supply of weapons to the Middle East and North Africa. On 25 February 2016, the European Parliament decided to call on the EU and its Member States to impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia because of its assaulted war in Yemen. Among other things, the Netherlands has already introduced a national arms embargo. It is high time that Sweden did the same. During the seven years the government took to produce proposals to limit arms exports, Sweden has exported war material to non-democrats, many of them in the Middle East and North Africa, for about SEK 20 billion. Unfortunately, the recent legislative amendment is far from sufficient to stop arms exports to dictatorships. Instead, we in the Left Party, and many aid and peace organisations with us, want to see an unconditional obstacle to exports to dictatorships and other countries that violate human rights. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Swedish development policy is overly characterised by an inability to clearly allow development goals to govern and take precedence over other political ambitions. Mikael Damberg's export offensive in Tehran, Dubai and Ankara must not be disconnected from issues of democracy, trade union rights and gender equality. We need to make clear demands on foreign investment and link up issues of trade and human rights. And we need to demand that all products coming from illegal Israeli settlements are clearly labelled in Sweden, just as they are already labelled in the UK. Women and children are the hardest hit in a conflict. The wars in Syria and Yemen hit those who are already in the most difficult situation. Sweden could be a very clear feminist voice in the Middle East and North Africa, a voice against the violence that now affects girls, women and LGBT people. But we could also see and make visible how girls, women and LGBT people are not only victims but also organise themselves and are actors for change. In this work, Sweden can make a difference with active support on the terms of the beneficiaries. We need to recognise Western Sahara and send a clear signal of hope to those living in refugee camps and under occupation. The question of Western Sahara will be discussed later by my colleague, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve. Madam President, I would like If we are to be a clear friend and ally of the courageous men and women in the Middle East and North Africa who are fighting for change, we must also be prepared to give them a sanctuary in our country and on our continent when they need it. It is not possible to make high speeches on peace and democracy one day, and the next day to propose that those fleeing Daish's terror or Erdo's repression meet with closed borders, refugee breaks and detention camps. We cannot talk with credibility about democracy and peace in the Middle East and North Africa and then support the EU sending a multi-billion dollars to Turkey to act as a border police force for the EU. Sweden and Europe have every opportunity to be a haven for those fleeing war, oppression and persecution, but that requires political will. The Left Party's view is that we should be proud to be able to offer protection and opportunities for a life of peace and freedom. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservations 7 and 19.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-93	Madam President, I would like It is a disaster that we are currently witnessing in many parts of the Middle East and North Africa, not everywhere but in a number of countries. We see how Syria is torn apart and the enormous suffering and trauma resulting from the war. There is war in Libya, Yemen and so on. This gives birth to large flows of refugees, as we are well aware even here in Sweden. The first thing we need to be aware of is that the flows of refugees, suffering and decay are in no way temporary. Rather, it is a more or less permanent process. For the rest of our lives, we will have to deal with these issues and do the best we can as a rich, peaceful and democratic country up in Scandinavia to still contribute in different ways to a more positive development. We can use our diplomacy. We can use our economy in different ways. We can also, at least to some extent, act militarily. We can use the international bodies where Sweden is an active member – the European Union, the UN and so on – to try to influence. However, there is one thing that is crucial right here and now and for the foreseeable future: we must break the chronic under-financing of the United Nations humanitarian aid agencies. Under-financing contributes to new instability. It exacerbates the situation and contributes to increased opportunities for extreme groups to recruit in refugee camps. It is driving a development in which we see more epidemics and more flows of refugees. In many refugee camps, the humanitarian situation is catastrophic. When it comes to humanitarian aid agencies, one should be aware that Sweden is still doing quite a lot. We are one of the largest donors to, for example, the UNHCR, which helps refugees, to Ocha, which coordinates humanitarian aid efforts, and to the World Food Programme with others. But there are other countries that are rich, also in the Middle East region, and that do very little. This includes not least the GCC countries, the Gulf states – Qatar, Saudi Arabia and others. They have huge oil revenues. They support the conflicts and contribute in various ways to destabilise the region. Saudi Arabia is the richest country in the Middle East. Every day in recent years, Saudis have devoted themselves to bombing the poorest country in the Middle East, Yemen. This, of course, is an untenable development. It's the Krösus Sork of the Middle East we're talking about. They have huge oil revenues, but they hardly do anything to help refugees or contribute to an improved humanitarian situation. Let me be specific from the Liberals and talk about something that Sweden can do and where Sweden can do more. It is about pressing these countries to actually open their wallets and start acting – actually letting in and helping refugees from the region. They must stop supporting extreme groups. They must tone down their extreme rhetoric on religious fundamentalism and so on. It would make the Middle East very good if Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE and some other countries were to start taking responsibility for the region. Many of the refugees are Arabs and speak Arabic. They're the same people. It's the same region. Clearly, there is much that these states can do. Here Sweden can contribute. Madam President, I would like There is another point I would like to highlight here. The world is now contributing to another disaster. The Kurdish people are being abandoned. This was done last autumn when they voted on their independence. This was done last winter in connection with the attacks on Afrin. The Kurds are a people who have been in practice in a forced marriage with four states in the region for a hundred years. They have been discriminated against. Their areas have been economically deprived. They have suffered genocide, discrimination and persecution of all kinds. In Turkey, they have not even been given the right to speak their language. At the same time, they have taken the lead in protecting the civilian population in the Middle East and, by extension, Sweden and Europe, from the terrorists. Thousands of Kurdish Peshmerga soldiers, YPG fighters and others have been killed in battle with IS. They have received support from us within the framework of the coalition against Daish, but now they are being abandoned. This population is handed out to the wolves, literally. It has to stop. The rest of the world must reconsider its relations with Turkey in such a way that it is beginning to put serious pressure on Turkey to actually live up to its obligations. The right of the Kurds in Iraq to enjoy viable autonomy within the framework of the Iraqi federal system in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq must be safeguarded. Similarly, the persecution of the Kurds in Iran must be tackled, and reconstruction aid must also be sought in various ways in the region of northern Syria called Rojava. It's practically quite difficult. This is likely to pose some problems in the relationship with Turkey. It is an area east of the Euphrates that is relatively stable by Syrian standards. There, reconstruction aid can actually make a difference. Madam President, I would like While I am talking about these disasters, it is just as well to mention another one. It is also happening right in front of our eyes, and it has been going on for a very long time. This concerns the situation of the Christian population in the Middle East. The first churches in the world – it was centuries before we started Viking trains in Sweden – were built in Levanten and Mesopotamia, east of the Mediterranean. Today, these churches are being built on the ground in Botkyrka. What has happened in the last hundred years is a continuous reduction of the Christian population in the Middle East. From perhaps 15% to 20%, they are today only a few percent. Almost half of them are Copts in Egypt. Then there are small pockets in Lebanon and some in Israel, some in Betlehem and some in Erbil in Kurdistan in northern Iraq. It's a tragedy. It's an ethnic cleansing. It's genocide. It started with the Armenians. It has continued continuously. This is a population that does not have protection. In the run-up to the Islamic state, we have seen how unprotected civilians are merely because of their Christian faith – or Yazidians, for that matter, the indigenous peoples of the region – being cornered and tormented, taken as slaves and crucified. We in Sweden – also in view of our Christian tradition in our country – should show greater empathy and commitment to vulnerable Christians in the Middle East. It is a question of promoting protected zones in the area. It is about being able to target aid so that the shard of Christianity that remains in the Middle East will have a chance to actually survive and grow. It is about having a migration policy that is worthy of the name and so on. There is a great deal we can do about this, and I think we have a moral obligation to stand up for those people who are so vulnerable and tormented around the world today. There are many more issues that can be addressed in this context. We can talk about Israel and Palestine. I don't have time to do it now. It may be taken at another time. There are many debates up to the elections. We have the colonization of Western Sahara. We have the incredibly extensive repression in Iran, the work for a secular society and for women's rights and the work to try to contribute in the long term to tolerance and liberal values in the Middle East region. There is a great deal, and we will have more opportunities in the future to discuss all of this as well.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-113	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Members of this House are deeply concerned about the developments we are seeing in the Middle East and North Africa. The report being debated today has dealt with no less than 200 requests. Although we see a little different solutions and our focus is on a little different directions in the region and on different actors, it is something that unites: the frustration that human suffering does not end. The Arab Spring gave us hope. It lit the flame of freedom in the region. We wanted so much that after rising up against oppression, people would live their lives in peace and freedom. But today, seven years later, the flame is panting weaker and weaker. Madam President, I would like Let me start in Syria, where the flame of freedom has long been extinguished. Here, the inability of the Security Council to agree and the red line of the Obama administration have actually come to have devastating consequences. There is much to be said about the previous actions of the European Union and the United States in the MENA region, but one thing we need to be clear about: when the European Union and the United States do not act, there will be no vacuum. Then there are other actors, with completely different motives, who fill the void. The presence of Russia, Iran and Turkey in Syria shows this not least. The fact that the Islamic State exploited the political instability of the region and managed to conquer vast land areas in its quest for the caliphate also demonstrates this. Restoration in foreign policy is often wise, but when the enemies of the West take advantage of a hesitant foreign policy and trample across the red lines that have not been observed by those who have drawn them, it is not a successful strategy. Madam President, I would like I am aware of the concerns of some minority groups about what might replace the rule of Al-Assad in the future. Will oppression worsen? But Syria has no future with a dictator like Asad remaining in power, not if you want to see reconstruction that brings the country forward and that can bring its displaced people back. The goal must be to bring Asad to justice. We Christian Democrats want to see a Syria tribunal set up so that no one responsible for crimes against humanity and the laws of war in Syria go free. How, then, will the country eventually be rebuilt and by whom? If democracy is to take a foothold in Syria, it must be anchored in its own people through reconciliation. If the will for this change cannot be found in the UN headquarters, the will must in any case be in Brussels and Washington. Countries such as Iraq, Libya and Tunisia show separately that it is not just throwing out the old regime and believing that it is possible to build a new nation. Transitional solutions are, of course, needed. Otherwise, the danger is that the country will be put into chaos or forced to rely on foreign power and know-how. Similarly, it is dangerous to believe too strongly that exiled citizens who have spent decades outside the country will come back and become recognized leaders of people whose living conditions they have not shared. The President of Tunisia, Essebsi, is a good example of a leader who today guarantees the democratic development of his country, even though he enjoyed positions of trust under the previous two leaders. In Tunisia, the flame is still burning. After seven years of killing, it is worth trying whether there is still a Syrian Essebsi. The opposite, Madam President, is Iraq. The country is a tragic example of how a dictatorship of oppression was replaced by chaos. After the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, the Bath Party was dissolved, and the Iraqis who worked in the military dictatorship were chased away. Some of these went to the absolute leadership of the Islamic State. The fact that we are seeing today how the Islamic State has been pushed away and that reconstruction has begun is positive, even though it is a fragile process. I would particularly like to talk here about the Nineve plain, on which we have a special opinion in this report. Here the Christian minority population was left to its fate at the advance of IS 2014, which has created a distrust of Erbil as well as Baghdad. Although the pace of reconstruction would increase, many hesitate to return before a long-term solution is in place. We Christian Democrats believe that Sweden must act proactively and initiate a dialogue with Baghdad in order to put the light on and save the continued existence of an extremely vulnerable minority group in Iraq. The Islamic State's dark vision of a Middle East cleared of Christians must be prevented. Madam President, I would like I spoke of a tribunal to bring Asad to justice for his brutal crimes against humanity. We're not there today. We are not going there because of the right of veto in the Security Council. What surprises us, however, is that we fail to ensure that the crimes of genocide of the Islamic State are brought to justice. Historically, this would be of central importance. Those who are guilty of the worst and most abominable crimes of international law can be convicted, and tens of thousands of victims can have an opportunity for redress. Not doing this is nothing more than a historical betrayal. We believe that Sweden should be the driving force for the question of the genocide of Yazidians, Christians and other minorities to be referred to the International Criminal Court or to a special tribunal. Madam President, I would like The Middle East has changed in recent years. Those who spoke earlier about the Middle East conflict understand that there can no longer be talk of a specific conflict. Yet Sweden too often finds itself in the UN's monotonous speech choir, which constantly and unilaterally condemns Israel. That's where we can get along. The Palestinian-Israeli conflict must be resolved, but we must start to see that almost all crises in today's Middle East are now unconnected with Israel. On the other hand, they are linked to Iran. I emphasised this in the foreign policy debate, and I am doing it again. It is the bloody struggle between Sunni and Shia and the ambitions of power of the Iranian regime, and their support for violence and terror, which constitute the truly serious threats to the stability of the Middle East. It is not surprising that the Iranian people rise and protest when the mullahs care more to support war and terror in the region than to provide their own people with the most basic. The fight now being waged against injustice, in which brave women throw off their veils, deserves stronger support from the outside world. Iran's influence in Iraq and Syria guarantees the Ayatollahs a direct route to the Mediterranean and thus also to Israel. Here Stockholm needs to agree with the clear message given the day before yesterday from Washington by Trump and Macron: Iran must not be allowed to have such a path. Madam President, I would like I have spoken more comprehensively about the region and tried to mention some of the proposals that we Christian Democrats have put forward. In addition to what I have mentioned so far, we have also wanted to focus on the situation in Turkey, where an increasingly authoritarian regime treats dissidents and journalists in an appalling way. We also have a motion to that effect. We have also consistently pursued the issue of aid to Palestine during this parliamentary term. Together with the other alliance parties, we have today left a motivational reservation in which we emphasise that, despite all the support, Palestine is continuing to develop in a worrying direction. Incitement to violence, indoctrination and hate speech cannot be accepted. We therefore believe that the policy towards and aid to Palestine needs to be redeployed in order for Sweden to be able to make a real difference in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Aid must then be characterised by clearer requirements, transparency and closer follow-up. The time is short to talk about an entire region, and it is almost time for voting. We are, of course, in favour of our specific statements and reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation No 9.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-133	Madam President, I would like When the air raids began, everyone rushed down to the shelter in the basement, but of course I couldn't. My family couldn't leave me, so we were all sitting there on the fifth floor while the whole house was shaking and the windows were shaking. Everybody tried not to look scared. Often I cried, but I did because I was the youngest and disabled. So writes the cp-damaged and disabled teenager Nujeen in his book The Girl from Aleppo. It tells about the war in Syria from a human perspective, as it is almost never described or even thought about – through the eyes of a child and a disabled girl. Through joy, sorrow, hope, and despair, she tells her story. She was finally forced to flee, as one in the crowd — a human destiny among millions of others. Hundreds of thousands of others are dead. All the time new sad chapters are opening up in the Syrian war. The latest chapters we've seen are Aphrin and Ghouta. I am very proud to sit in a parliament where all parties take a stand for human rights. We also agree in the report that there must be accountability for crimes that occur and that have taken place. I am thinking, among other things, of the two gay guys in al-Raqqa who were thrown down from a high-rise just because they were homosexuals. I am thinking of the Christians who were drowned in an underwater cage with cameras filming their last horrible minutes. They were drowned only because they were Christians. I'm thinking of the girl who looked like a doll and was killed by poison gas in a plane attack. She died only because she was born in the wrong place. Thousands of lives have been lost. Why don't we give up hope and fight for a better tomorrow? There are others – even in other parliaments – who seem to have given up and who say that we here in Sweden are naive. They say Asad has won the war and that he and his minions will get away. To them we say: History is full of bandits who have escaped, but in recent times it has become increasingly difficult to escape justice and responsibility. In Belgrade, opponents of Milošević said that he would never stop tormenting them. But one day he sat there on the bench of the defendants in The Hague. Because of blockages in the Security Council, countries do not agree on a Syria tribunal, but that should not prevent us in Sweden from being clear in our position. Anyone who has committed crimes against humanity or committed war crimes, genocide or attempted genocide shall be held to account. We owe it to all victims, whether they are Shia Muslims or Sunni Muslims or whether they are secular or Christian. We owe it to victims of various ethnic minorities – Kurds, Chaldeans, Yazidians, Armenians, Assyrians and others. The question of investigating genocide will be pursued in the Security Council. In committee, we also believe that sustainable peace does not include Syria's current leadership. The MENA report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs deals with the whole of the Middle East and North Africa. However, because of the atrocities that are taking place in Syria, I was going to say a few more words about what is happening in Afrin. Perhaps Kawa Zolfagary is the one who has expressed it best through her poetry. He writes like this: In Aphrin, they tear down a statue. The man the statue represents is the blacksmith Kawa. Kawa's children were murdered by a tyrant. In response, he led the people in rebellion against the tyrant and defeated him. This freed the Kurdish people. That's the legend. Ripping a statue and the Kurds will rebuild a thousand, with a thousand names of a thousand legends. In Aphrin they tear down a statue, but provoke a rebellion. That's what he writes. Violence breeds violence. Turkey is the stronger party to the conflict and commits violations of international law through its attack on Afrin. They should immediately heed the cease-fire resolution adopted by the UN Security Council, as Russia, Syria and fighting rebel groups should do. We also believe that the Kurds should have a seat at the table in the peace negotiations. In addition to our work on the peace process and the fight for accountability, Sweden has established a Syria strategy that includes SEK 1.7 billion for reconstruction and more. Madam President, I would like In Palestine there is a city called Hebron. It is sacred to at least three religions. Abraham is buried in the old town centre. Half his body is in the synagogue, and the other half is in the mosque. At major festivals, Muslims borrow the Jewish building and vice versa. Side by side, it's old. There is a strong desire for peace on both sides of the conflict. Swedish aid is an important part of giving people hope for a future, especially for the Palestinian side. However, Swedish aid should not go to anti-Semitism or sedition. When this happens, Swedish authorities act – recently money was stopped for an aid project. It is our firm conviction that Sweden will recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, shared with Palestine. That is also what the international agreements say. It does no good – especially not Israelis or Palestinians – to polarise the conflict further. Sweden has recognised the state of Palestine. Perhaps the Swedish recognition came too late. This is one way of seeing the parties as equal and equal. Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that I have nothing to say about Hamas or its methods. Their rocket launchers are disgusting and are usually aimed at civilian targets. The sedition they are doing is reprehensible. On the other hand, an internal Palestinian reconciliation process is necessary. Recently, thousands of people demonstrated in Gaza. It cannot be defended that 40 Palestinians were shot to death and 758 injured by using live ammunition without, according to Human Rights Watch, being an immediate danger to the lives of Israeli soldiers. Israel, of course, has the right to defend itself, but that was something else. The Palestinians have the right to exercise their freedom of demonstration. We support the two-state solution within 1967 borders or agreed borders. There is also cause for criticism of the Palestinian regime in the West Bank, where we have been able to note several arbitrary arrests. We want to see a democratic and free Palestine, not an authoritarian one. Madam President, I would like It is important to stress that the development of the Middle East is in no way predestined. It is not invisible hands that have created dictators, and it is not invisible hands that fuel wars and conflicts. The future of the Middle East is determined by the choices that the region's men and women face every day, but also by how we in the outside world and how we in Sweden choose to relate to them and their countries. In the Middle East there is an extremely strong desire for peace. Girls like Nujeen from Aleppo need to know that there are people and states who continue the fight for her and all other children raised in a peaceful Middle East. Sweden is a small country, but we have a big impact on the world. Some may say that our contribution is just a drop in the ocean. But what is the sea if not a fusion of thousands upon thousands of drops, which together is one of the strongest forces on earth? I support the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders, for highlighting in many good ways the sight of people who are rarely heard in conflicts today. I'd like to thank you for that. After all, so much is happening in the regions we have been talking about today. We have all placed a strong focus on Syria, which is understandable. At the same time, there is an equally large humanitarian crisis in Yemen. Access to housing, sanitation and schools is largely non-existent in some areas, and also ravages cholera. Sweden is a major contributor to humanitarian aid, but at the same time arms are being exported to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, which are involved in bombing in Yemen. Unfortunately, the legislative change that you have recently decided is far from sufficient to stop arms exports to dictatorships. It is not only we in the Left Party who say this, but also many aid and peace organisations. Instead, like us, they want to see an unconditional obstacle to exports to dictatorships and other countries that violate human rights. My question to you, Anders Österberg, is: Why don't you take the opportunity to close the holes properly?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-170	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Yasmine Posio Nilsson. It is clear that we should not export weapons if the weapons are used in conflict. We have made an honest attempt, but not many parties have wanted to participate in the process of trying to close the holes. Let's see how the legislation works. If it doesn't work as intended, we need to make it even better.
i-4jLrociavNgCJuANa68Gd8	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Anders Österberg! Then you would have been able to support one of our demands in our follow-up motion to the bill. There we wrote that there must be a careful evaluation in three years' time of whether the law really works as it is supposed to – something that we in the Left Party and many peace and aid organisations with us are highly doubtful that it will do.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-174	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the input! Just about Yasmine Posio Nilsson says, we will make new legislation if we notice that there is something wrong with the legislation that we have made.
i-84YcyeVnpMovG81XJwRmfk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Österberg, for an interesting speech! As you know, the Swedish Democrats are also behind a two-state solution in Israel – the Palestine conflict. On the other hand, we disagree with the recognition of Palestine as an independent state. There are several questions about how the government could proceed with this, given that there are three clear demands that the government believes should be met to recognise an independent state: there should be a people, there should be a territory and, last but not least, there should be a body or people exercising control over the territory. Some of the requirements are certainly not met, in the case of others it is a bit questionable. Yet it chose to recognise Palestine, which brings with it a responsibility on this issue. As I mentioned in my speech earlier, very large sums of money have been channelled from Sweden to the Palestinian Authority, from the EU over 50 billion. This is being continued despite the fact that little progress is being made. We know today that money has gone to finance terrorism, that there is serious anti-Semitism in schools in Palestine and that this kind of trend is being actively spread among the population. My question to Anders Österberg is therefore: how can additional aid be granted to the Palestinian Authority? Although the aid does not go directly to the Palestinian Authority, it goes indirectly there.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for giving me the opportunity to talk about Swedish aid and all the fantastic work done with Swedish aid! Markus Wiechel said that there has hardly been any improvement in the Palestinian Authority. I do not know if he listened to my speech, but there I spoke about all the deteriorations that have taken place in the Palestinian Authority. Of course, developments in Palestine are very worrying, especially the authoritarian tendencies that we see and the arrests of trade union leaders. I happen to be chairman of the National Association of Young Eagles in Sweden. A few months ago, even a leader of the National League of Young Eagles in Palestine was arrested, which led us to criticise both the Palestinian Authority and the President. It is clear that we would certainly not want to give aid to Palestine. We never give aid to countries that work perfectly. The reason we have aid is to provide aid to countries where it does not work perfectly, and we see that Palestine continues to need it. Civil society continues to need a large amount of Swedish aid so that it can flourish and become better and thereby promote the democratic process in Palestine. While Markus Wiechel is standing in the speaker's chair, I would like to take this opportunity to put some counter-questions. I find it quite interesting to read how you reason in your reservations. You write in one of your reservations that Peshmerga's troops are in Area 140 in Iraq and that it should provide a basis for recognising northern Kurdistan as an independent state. But now the Iranian forces are standing there. Then I wonder if it is the area where they have their forces that should be acknowledged. If so, do the Swedish Democrats think that the area should belong to Iran? You also think that Western Sahara should be recognised as an independent state. We think that is a fundamentally good idea; that is a good thing. But their forces are in Algeria. What is the difference between Western Sahara and Palestine in terms of recognition?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-187	Madam President, I would like To begin with the 140-paragraph and the Kurdistan area, this was not a reason for recognition, but rather that it actually met the government's requirements for recognition. Where exactly the boundaries should then go is a matter for the parties. However, there was a referendum in the KRG region in Iraq, and we believe that we should have respected it, not least given that there was a clear majority for them to be independent. They have a functioning state formation, they have their own security forces, they have functioning institutions and they are a people who want to be independent. I do not see how one can be against such a procedure. But I am well aware that the Social Democrats did not think they should have that independence. With regard to Palestine and Iraq, there are two very different things. Palestine does not at all meet the government's own requirements for being an independent state. Furthermore, we have seen contradictions there which in no way make Palestine an exemplary example for other states that want to be independent, while Iraq has tried to build society in a peaceful and positive way. So there is a big difference. To return to the question of aid to Palestine, we know today that things have not gone better there, on the contrary. Corruption is enormous, anti-Semitism is widespread and they continue to spread anti-Semitism. It is one thing if you want to support individual actors in an area, which you are happy to do, but now you are indirectly funding the Palestinian Authority, their hate speech and terrorist wages.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-190	Madam President, I would like Countries or territories must have absolute autonomy if they are governed by international law, including northern Kurdistan. The questions that will not be answered in this debate are whether the Swedish Democrats would rather see the children in Palestine on the street than on the school bench or that families thirst to death instead of getting clean water thanks to Swedish aid. But I suppose we have reason to come back to these issues.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-192	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Anders Österberg. One is about Syria and the arresting images of the victims of the Asad regime's actions. The chemical weapons attack in Douma was another red line that the Security Council was unable to face. Does Anders Österberg and the Social Democrats believe that it was right for France, the United Kingdom and the United States to act in the way they did to make it clear that confidence in international conventions must be upheld and that this was a way of marking when the Security Council's work had been known and not just one but several times in the last week? The second issue is aid. We have talked a lot about aid to Palestine. There is no doubt that we think we should continue to provide aid, but our position is that we must make clear demands. Together we have been there and discussed, and at least I clearly understood that there were no clear demands to act for freedom of expression, democracy and human rights in the Palestinian territories. This could be followed up if aid were more transparent. We had a discussion in the Foreign Affairs Committee. What do Anders Österberg and the Social Democrats want to do to ensure that we get transparency and follow-up on aid to Palestine?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-198	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for raising these important issues. Regarding the chemical weapons attack: Was it right for the great powers to attack Syria? I think it is a difficult and complex issue. On the one hand, there is a need to act in the event of such attacks because they constitute crimes against humanity. At the same time, we have a world order that says that you should go through the UN Security Council and that that is where you should get the mandate. Personally, as I said, this is a very difficult issue, but as parliamentarians, I think it would have been good if we had waited for the UN Security Council and further investigations. As far as Palestine is concerned, it was great that we had the discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I also welcome the fact that we are constantly evaluating aid to Palestine, because it is a sensitive conflict. In addition, it is important that Swedish aid does not finance acts of terrorism, incitement to violence, sedition or anti-Semitism. That's what I'm the first to sign. I think that the committee should continue to push for ongoing evaluations. It is good for both Sweden and Palestine. As I said, we do not want an authoritarian Palestine; we want to see a free, democratic Palestine. I myself am concerned about the Palestinian Authority's attack on freedom of expression, and I think that we parliamentarians in particular should be vigilant because we can have an important task in protesting and saying our opinion. After all, the committee visited the Palestinian Authority, and we were very clear in our dialogue and discussions with representatives of the Palestinian Authority on our view of democracy, human rights, women's rights and LGBT rights. If I do not remember correctly, I myself raised the issue of LGBT rights with the Prime Minister of Palestine.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-205	Madam President, I would like With regard to clear demands on the Palestinian Authority, it is quite clear that the committee, in talks with Palestinian representatives and with government representatives, has called for greater clarity. It is regrettable that we have not had the opportunity to follow. Through Openaid we will be able to follow Swedish aid, but the latest update was made in 2015. The conditions for us citizens to be able to see where the money goes and how the money is used are therefore bad. If we are to be credible and have support for the aid, it is crucial, not least when we enter conflict areas, that we have clear demands, that the government makes clear demands and that we ensure that the system is followed up and transparent. Madam President, I would like Anders Österberg sees the question of how to maintain international standards as difficult. Does Anders Österberg think that one of the countries, through the right of veto, should be able to block and oppose commonly agreed standards when, for example, chemical weapons are used? That's what's happening. Then the Security Council and also Anders Österberg will provide protection for chemical weapons, and we have seen that. Since the previous red line and the discussion about when Syria acceded to the Chemical Weapons Convention, Russian support and protection have continued to act with chemical weapons. It is high time to put your foot down.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-209	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, important to respect international law. But it is also important to ensure that the conflict does not escalate. There must be a balance in between. The fact that countries such as Russia, Turkey, Syria and others do not respect the resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council is a major problem. Last night the Social Democrats met representatives from Rojava, and they thanked them for the initiatives taken by Sweden in the UN Security Council. They said that the solution must be political, and so do we. Only military solutions are not the way forward, but the solution must be political. I hope we agree on that.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-213	Madam President, I would like What began as regime-critical scribbles of some schoolchildren in the city of Daraa in southern Syria in March 2011 has seven years later led to one of the worst conflicts of our time with almost half a million dead and millions of refugees. Every other Syrian has been forced to leave his home, and the material damage to basic infrastructure will take decades to restore. In addition to all this, civil war creates unusually difficult wounds mentally as they cut right through families, families and friend circles. The fact that the conflict has lasted for so long is closely linked to the fact that there has been an unusually high level of war through representatives where regional powers such as Iran, Turkey and Saudi Arabia have backed up various actors. Over time, Russia and the United States have also become increasingly involved in the conflict. All of this clearly illustrates the need for an active world community and the need for reform of the UN system. The ideas of restricting the right of veto in cases where there is a risk of genocide seem to be keen to proceed with. Today we have a situation in which the UN Security Council is not able to implement the resolutions it has nevertheless managed to reach agreement on, such as Resolution 2254 of 2015, which advocates the UN facilitating a political process towards a transitional regime in Syria and the adoption of a new constitution, as well as the holding of free and democratic elections under the leadership of the United Nations. The UN's inability to act is inexorably exploited by forces that do not protect the public interest, that is, peace and freedom for all the peoples, but instead seek to advance their own positions. The fact that Putin, Erdo中an and the Iranian government now meet and high above the heads of the Syrian people sketches the future of Syria does not bode well. Unfortunately, the fact that the region becomes a place of thumb for various great power interests is a recurring pattern ever since France and Britain divided the Middle East into the so-called Sykes-Sykes-Picot agreement in 1916, when the Ottoman Empire fell apart. It is important that Sweden, the EU and the UN maintain that the Asad regime is not legitimate, even if it is legal in such a way that it re-controls most of its territory. A regime which, with unprecedented brutality, wages wars against its own people and kills hundreds of thousands of civilians, that is, even more than the IS, does not belong in the governing district of Damascus, but in the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of this decade there were hopes that Turkey was moving towards a more democratic society. The military and security agencies, the so-called deep state, were challenged by the AKP government under the leadership of the then Prime Minister Erdo中an, and peace negotiations with the Kurdish PKK began. Today, all this is blown away and has been reversed in its opposite. In addition to changing the title from Prime Minister to President, Mr Erdo中an is also about to replace parliamentarism with a particularly authoritarian presidential government. The increasingly sultanlike President did not settle for the attempted military coup in July 2016 but, in his vengeful paranoia, has begun to break democracy itself. Mass redundancies of teachers and other civil servants have been followed by mass arrests of opposition politicians, and in the press freedom index that Reporters Without Borders regularly establish, the country ended up in 2016 in 151 of 180 countries surveyed. The peace process with the PKK is transformed into a warlike state with widespread human suffering and material devastation in the country's Kurdish-dominated south-east. The opposition party HDP, which has its main electoral base among the country's Kurdish inhabitants but also attracts many ethnic Turks, has been subjected to systematic persecution, and several of the party's mayors and MPs are imprisoned, including the two party leaders Figen Yüksekda中 and Selahattin Demirtaş. Demirtaş is a charismatic centre-left politician who has been described as Turkey's Obama, but he is now threatened by a prison sentence of 142 years for alleged association with the PKK. With this logic, the high Turkish military forces who, a few years ago, negotiated peace directly with the imprisoned PKK leader Abdullah Öcalan should also be imprisoned. Madam President, I would like Erdo中an follows the pattern of action of authoritarian leaders and acts with repression inwards and aggression outwards. In a flagrant violation of international law, during the first months of the year Turkish troops invaded areas of northern Syria and occupied the city of Aphrin. This part of Syria has a Kurdish majority, and the area has under the name of Rojava established a far-reaching self-government with interesting elements of direct democracy and a unique measure of equality between women and men for the Middle East. Mr Erdo中an fears that this autonomous region of northern Syria may be an attractive example for the Kurds in eastern Turkey and does not hesitate to suppress self-government there by military means. Kurdish forces played a crucial role in the fight against IS, and the outside world now has an enjoining moral duty to stand up for the threatened Rojava. In this part I fully agree with what the Liberals' Fredrik Malm said here a little while ago. Starting to fall away from blackmail often only leads to an even deeper dependence on the blackmailer. That is why a dangerous path has been taken by the EU when it concludes a refugee agreement with Erdo中an and pays large sums of money to the autocrat for him to act as a border guard. A more solidarity-based refugee policy on the part of the European Union would make it unnecessary to reach such unsolicited agreements. In this context, it is also worth recalling that Turkey, through trade and other international relations, is in fact more dependent on the EU and its Member States than vice versa. If Erdo中an realises the threat of occupying not only Afrin but the whole of Rojava, the EU should respond with massive sanctions against Turkey. Madam President, I would like In the shadow of the Syrian disaster, the situation in Israel – Palestine is evolving in a worrying way, as recent bloodshed along the border between Gaza and Israel illustrates. Gaza has been called the world's largest outdoor prison, and such a pressure cooker boils sooner or later over when futureless people – not least young people – have had enough. I am a strong supporter of non-violence as a method and have always condemned violence romance and the use of violence in order to achieve political goals, regardless of who stands for the violence, but in a conflict there is a particular responsibility for the stronger party to take initiatives that break the cycle of violence. What the world is now waiting for are Israeli leaders who live up to this responsibility. Real Israeli friends should strongly communicate to both the government and civil society in Israel that the country is putting its long-term peace and security at risk by allowing ever-new illegal settlements on occupied Palestinian land and thus, in practice, establishing a kind of Storisrael in which Palestinians become second-class residents in an increasingly apartheid-like system. If Israel continues to close the door to a two-state solution in practice, the unofficial Storisrael, made up of the real Israel plus the parts of Palestine that Israel controls in practice, will inexorably grow. Within this larger geographical space, the majority of the population is already predicted to become Arab within five years, and if Israel continues to be able to call itself a democracy, it will not be forced to release half the power – as in a two-state scenario – but the whole power, or at least most of it, to the representatives of the Arab majority of the population. Otherwise, the only remaining scenario is that Israel ceases to be a democracy and turns into a kind of apartheid system where the inhabitants do not have the same without different rights and obligations. Madam President, I would like It is high time that the international community put strong pressure on Morocco to finally hold the referendum on the independence of the people of Western Sahara, which was promised back in 1992. It is time for the last colony of Africa to be dismantled. Madam President, I would like A review like this easily gets a list of current events, where longer development lines and deeper causation mechanisms tend to be obscured. There is a danger that the long dark shadows of today's authoritarian leadership in the Middle East cover up the considerable responsibility that we in the Western world have for the gloomy development of this part of the world. This applies from the rule-and-divide principle of colonial times, where the European colonial powers deliberately played out different communities against each other in intricate privilege systems, to today's long unsound trade and power relations between the West and the countries of the Middle East. Both for the climate and for democracy unsustainable trade patterns have emerged, where we in the West buy oil and gas from some of the world's least democratic countries and these in return buy weapons from us. In one direction flows a constant stream of weapons and in the opposite direction a stream of refugees. Madam President, I would like Our relations with the countries of the Middle East are essentially intergovernmental and not inter-popular, possibly with a short exception in the Arab spring. But after every winter comes a new spring, and let us remember that the majority of the population throughout the Middle East and North Africa is made up of young people who are more connected than ever to the outside world and expect us in the West to live up to our democratic ideals. And then it does not hold rhetorically to celebrate democracy and human rights and then really support self-rulers such as Erdo中an, the Saudi royal house and the coup general al-Sisi, who came to power in Egypt by denouncing the country's first democratically elected president ever. The fact that the Western world is gradually stepping out of fossil dependence hopefully also reduces dependence on the authoritarian regimes of the MENA region. If this region turns from exploiting its oil deposits to developing its very rich supply of solar energy, a window opens up for a completely different future. As is well known, the availability of solar energy is spread in a completely different way from fossil deposits. Solar energy does not require huge investments to be exploited, with all that comes from the concentration of economic and political power, but can be produced through solar cells and solar thermal plants by village communities and even individual households and thus significantly increase people's empowerment. Madam President, I would like Finally, I support the committee's proposal.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-240	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report UU14 on the Middle East and North Africa. In my speech, I intend to concentrate on the Left Party's motion on Western Sahara. The Moroccan illegal occupation of Western Sahara has now been going on for 43 years, in violation of both the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It is a disgrace to the international community that this long conflict has not been resolved. The Moroccan plundering of Western Sahara's raw materials is one of the root causes of the occupation. Under international law, an occupying power must not use natural resources in an occupied area for its own profit, except if it is for the profit of the occupied people and with their permission. Nevertheless, Morocco's plundering of Western Sahara's natural resources, mainly phosphate and fish, continues. 70 percent of the world's phosphate resources are found in Western Sahara, and the profits from these deposits go directly into the pockets of the Moroccan royal family. In December 2016, the EU Court of Justice ruled that the EU-Morocco Trade and Agriculture Agreement does not apply to Sahrawi goods, as Western Sahara does not belong to Morocco. On 27 February 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled that the fisheries agreement between Morocco and the EU does not apply to Western Sahara either. The judges make it clear that the only way to negotiate agreements involving Western Sahara is with the Sahrawi people, through the legitimate representative of the United Nations, Polisario. In July 2018, soon, the EU-Morocco fisheries agreement will expire. The EU has paid EUR 30 million annually to Morocco to allow fishing vessels from mainly Spain and other EU countries to plunder Western Sahara's fishing waters. The agreement is therefore contrary both to international law and to the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in two separate judgments. Now the Commission is trying to circumvent these judgments and undermine its own court by renegotiating the fisheries agreement with Morocco. The judges are clear, and it is quite clear that these negotiations can only lead to the establishment of a new illegal agreement. Sweden voted against trying to extend the agreement last winter. But now in April Sweden abstained on a new draft mandate. Sweden no longer stands out for international law and international law. It is totally indefensible and incomprehensible that Sweden does not use its voice in the EU to mark against the EU's illegal fisheries agreements with Morocco. Sweden must work within the EU to ensure that trade agreements between the EU and Morocco, in accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, do not include the territory of Western Sahara as long as the people of Western Sahara, through their legitimate representative Polisario, have not given their consent. Something else is completely unreasonable. Madam President, I would like When Sweden became a member of the UN Security Council in 2017, there was great hope that Sweden would act forcefully to bring about a solution to the Western Sahara issue. Unfortunately, however, we have seen too little of this. At the end of April, Western Sahara will again be discussed in the UN Security Council, and Mr Minurso's mandate will certainly be extended. I hope that Sweden will then forcefully put forward the call for the mandate of Mr Minurso to be extended to include human rights. Minurso is today the only UN force that does not have this mandate, allowing Morocco's widespread abuse of the civilian population in the occupied area to continue unabated without Minurso even having the right to report on the abuses. The Sahrawi population is subjected daily by the occupying forces to human rights violations through various forms of harassment, persecution, arbitrary arrests and torture. One of many examples of the occupation force's abuse of Sahrawi activists is the events associated with the manifestation in Gdeim Izik in 2010. Moroccan authorities responded to the peaceful manifestation that took place there by attacking the camp with rubber bullets, water cannons, tear gas and violence. Hundreds of people were arrested. Of them, 24 were sentenced to long prison sentences in a court of law, where torture was used to force concessions in a military court. As the occupation continues, a majority of the Sahrawi population has been in refugee camps in the Sahara desert in south-eastern Algeria for 43 years. 78% of pregnant women suffer from anaemia. Many of the children under five years of age suffer from chronic malnutrition, anemia, and short growth. The food provided monthly by the World Food Programme is one-sided and inadequate, as it is primarily intended for more short-term humanitarian situations. It is deeply unfortunate that direct aid for mackerel, distributed by the organisation Practical Solidarity in Sweden, has been withdrawn. It was extremely important aid, because it was the only source of protein that the refugees had for a long time. Humanitarian aid for the camps needs to be increased as soon as possible. But aid should also be given to the free part of Western Sahara, which is currently under the control of the Polisario. Madam President, I would like In 1989, a referendum on the independence of the people of Western Sahara was promised in 1992. Morocco and Western Sahara's legitimate representative Polisario negotiated and signed the agreement on the referendum. For 27 years, Morocco has stalled and sabotaged the process, and the outside world has allowed this to happen. More pressure is now required on Morocco to act and keep their promise. The international community, and in particular the UN Security Council, have an important role to play in ensuring urgently that the referendum on the independence of Western Sahara takes place. If Morocco continues to refuse, the Security Council must force a solution and consider using sanctions against Morocco to bring about a solution. Sweden must use its seat in the Security Council and act vigorously to set a date for the referendum. A Swedish recognition of the Sahrawi state would undoubtedly play an important role in strengthening the position of the Sahrawi people in the negotiations. I assume that the government will comply with Parliament's 2012 decision and recognise Western Sahara. If nothing happens, there is a great risk that frustration is increasing, that the cease-fire between Morocco and Polisario is broken and that an armed conflict is once again erupting. The world does not need another armed conflict. The international community must act vigorously to avoid such developments. The Western Sahara have the right on their side. I commend our reservations 7 and 19.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-257	Madam President, I would like There has been a lengthy discussion in the UN Security Council on the mandate to Mr Minurso. This is one of the most difficult conflicts to deal with in the Security Council. From the Swedish side, we have gathered clearly that we want an MR mandate also in this mission. In that part, there is really no disagreement. Several times the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also made a joint statement on this very issue – this mandate just like previous mandates. With regard to the question of compliance with the European Court of Justice, I would just like to make one clarification. When you listened to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve it did not show that there were differences of opinion in the Swedish parliament about a Swedish action. As far as we are concerned, we are clear about the need to follow the European Court of Justice. We also expected the judgments of the European Court of Justice to have a clear impact on the work of the Commission. As far as we are concerned, we see the outcome and were therefore clear about recommending a "no" from the Swedish side in the last vote on the fisheries agreement. We regret that this did not reach a wider majority this time. I am convinced that we will have a court case here too. This was more a comment on Lotta Johnsson Fornarve's post.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-260	Madam President, I would like I don't really have much more to say. The Center Party and the Left Party agree on this issue that Sweden should vote against moving ahead with the fisheries agreement. I therefore have nothing new to say, but I very much hope that Sweden will stand up for the Sahrawi people and ensure that this fisheries agreement will not include Western Sahara in the future.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-261	Madam President, I would like I just wanted to make it clear from the debate that this was not the opinion of the Left Party alone. It was therefore important to clarify this. Then we do not agree on the issue of recognition, with which I would also like to be clear. As far as we are concerned, we do not believe that recognition of Western Sahara is at issue today. We are still upholding the UN line and want to strengthen the mandate of the UN in the work for Western Sahara.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-263	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for this clarification. I am very pleased that we share the same view with regard to the fisheries agreement and that several parties, including the Liberals, are on this side. I hope we will come forward there. As far as recognition is concerned, we believe that it is important because it can strengthen the negotiating position of the Western Sahara. It would also mean that the Sahrawis would gain new hope in the camps and around for their cause. I therefore believe that recognition would mean a great deal to the Sahrawi people to strengthen them.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-265	Madam President, I would like There are children who each day dread what it will be like when they come home from school. Children live in families where there are alcohol problems. There is also often abuse and abuse in the family. At least 72,000 children in Sweden have a parent with serious alcohol problems. An estimated 380 000 children live in families where at least one adult has a risk of alcohol use. At least half of all violent crimes in Sweden are alcohol-related. Human tragedies cannot be overestimated. We must nevertheless note that Sweden's alcohol policy has been successful. Thanks to the state alcohol monopoly, total consumption is low compared to other countries and also declining. That is extremely positive. Madam President, I would like Today, a historic change is taking place in the previously successful Swedish alcohol policy. For the first time, there is now a majority in the Riksdag to introduce farm sales of alcohol. Let me say that it is not a problem in itself if vineyards in Sweden get the opportunity to sell their own produced wine on the farm. This would probably not even lead to a measurable increase in total alcohol consumption. In other words, it would be completely unproblematic in terms of the harmful effects of alcohol on people and society at large. What is, on the other hand, a huge problem and the fact is that it does not stop at sales on farms. This means, in fact, the abolition of the Swedish system company monopoly on the sale of alcohol. If farm sales are opened, Sweden cannot, by extension, prevent microbreweries, other alcohol producers or grocery stores from selling alcohol as well. This applies to both Swedish and foreign actors. This has been made clear in two state investigations carried out by bourgeois governments. The investigations, like the previous bourgeois government, have concluded that it would not be possible to maintain Systembolaget's monopoly if farm sales were introduced. Therefore, the bourgeois government did not proceed with such a proposal either. Madam President, I would like According to published research, the abolition of a monopoly on the sale of alcohol would lead to a sharp increase in alcohol consumption in Sweden. This, in turn, would have major negative consequences. According to published research, this would mean nearly 29,000 more assault cases each year. Another 1 400 people would die in alcohol-related diseases, accidents and suicides. We would have 8,000 more cases of drunk driving. More women will be raped and abused. More children will grow up in families where one or both parents abuse alcohol. Again: It is not the possible sale of Swedish vineyards that poses the problem. The problem is the abolition of the most important alcohol policy tool we have: the Swedish alcohol monopoly. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats know this, for it has been established in two investigations and by the former bourgeois government. Yet they want to do this today. You have to ask yourself why. One possibility is to mislead voters to believe that farm sales are compatible with a retained alcohol monopoly. Another possibility is that you actually want alcohol to be sold in grocery stores. I think that's what it's about later. The decision today will eventually mean that such a successful Swedish alcohol policy will be scrapped. Spirit, strong beer and wine will be like any other in our grocery stores. Madam President, I would like We are well aware of the enormous economic interests involved in this. For the alcohol industry and trade, the abolition of the state monopoly on alcohol sales means multi-billion-dollar profits. We all pay the price in the form of increased medical costs, criminality and insecurity. But the highest price will be paid for the children who grow up with abusive parents and the women who are raped and abused. Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected in addition to reservation 3, which I would like to endorse.
i-Q8cPwdWSb5gogD8pBZqmKZ	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Per Bolund and Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-276	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Minister Isabella Lövin a question. Recently, the government decided that it would like to be able to give municipalities the right to introduce environmental zones. Since then, there has been a high level of debate on banning diesel cars. These cars have been sold as environmental cars to consumers who wanted to do the right thing, and now the secondary value is falling. What has not been debated is the fact that the Government's proposal means that even charge hybrids can be banned in zone 3 from 2022. This means that charging hybrids that comply with Euro 6 and run mostly on pure electricity can be banned regardless of the year model. My question to the Government concerns charging hybrids and is: Does the Minister think that it is reasonable that even the newest models of charging hybrids complying with Euro 6 should be able to suffer from driving bans in environmental zone 3 from 2022?
i-688WrLqiXkiBYTrKy8pixM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Nordgren, for the question! The question of environmental zones has been going on for a very long time, and we should have dealt with it considerably earlier. It is about cities being able to meet the requirements for good air quality under EU legislation and for us to protect our children's and everyone's health. We know that many die prematurely because of air pollution. We need to put pressure on car manufacturers to do the best possible technology, and so do many cities around the world. The environmental zone proposal provides for the possibility for municipalities to introduce environmental zones for light urban vehicles themselves. With regard to the most vulnerable streets, it is reasonable to be able to have the most stringent rules so that only those cars that do not let out can be there.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-281	Mr President, I would like to Now my question was about charging hybrids that are therefore mostly driven on electricity and often bought by people who live outside the cities where there is a lack of public transport and charging poles – and that extension is unlikely to be completed in 2022. I ask again: Is it reasonable that car owners who bought new charging hybrids, the 2018 model, should be affected perhaps already when the car is only four years old?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-283	Mr President, I would like to It is important to stress that the entire inner cities should not be banned for diesel cars or that all cars should disappear from the inner cities, but that they should be given the opportunity to establish different zones. With regard to the most affected streets, municipalities should also be able to make demands on the highest standard of the vehicles that run those streets. There will be a division between cars powered by gas, which meets Euro 6 and which is charged h ybrider.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-285	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. In the days it announced and somewhat delayed the proposal for a new residence permit for the so-called unaccompanied minors who came here before the autumn of 2015, who have received a negative decision and who are adults and lack asylum reasons but who, for inexplicable reasons, still want to stay in the country at a fairly high cost – 700 million this year and a total of 3 billion over the next two years. My question really concerns in this case – we have discussed the subject matter several times about – the formality of this. It has been chosen to present this as an additional amending budget, and it is strictly regulated how it can and must not be done in relation to it. I find it difficult to see what reason there really is to wait and put it forward in this way. The question is whether it is actually compatible with our laws.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-288	Mr President, I would like to It is important to point out that this is about a group of young people who have come to Sweden and who, because there were very many who came for a short time, have been affected by the fact that there were long processing times. This has meant that this group that came to Sweden when they were minors in many cases has become over 18 years of age and has thus received a different assessment from what they would have received if we had had the processing times that we have had historically. The government has come to the conclusion, and there also seems to be support in the Riksdag for that, that one should have a chance to be tried in accordance with the conditions that applied when one actually came to the country. With regard to budgeting, we have the principle that we have a budget in the autumn and an amending budget in the spring. But we also have the opportunity, and it has been used by the government on many occasions, to make additional amending budgets when we present policies that also have economic consequences. It has been done on several occasions and will also be done by future governments, and it is precisely in accordance with the principle that we are working on in terms of budgeting.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-291	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. These people are not minors. They are adults and have no grounds for protection, and since they do not have protection reasons and are not children, there is no reason for them to stay in the country. We have a regulation which says that the government may, with an explicit exception, only submit amendments to budgets on two occasions. This is something you've chosen to follow. The fact that you are fighting internally in the government and do not have time to arrive at how you want to resolve the matter cannot be a reason to deviate from our laws when you present a budget and not?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-294	Mr President, I would like to Of course, this is within the laws that we have in terms of budgeting. Of course, we are careful to comply with the rules and laws that we have laid down. The government has also tabled supplementary amending budgets on previous occasions during this term of office. One such example was when we found a good solution for Postnord and were able to create a long-term precondition, but it had financial consequences, and then we also had an additional amending budget for it. This is also an issue where it has been important to find a solution. We see that there are certain financial consequences, and it goes without saying that we will also solve this by means of an additional amending budget.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-296	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Bucht. There were great hopes on the rural bill that we discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs today. The Rural Committee's report contained 75 sharp proposals, and there was an incredibly broad political consensus. I had hoped that these proposals would be included in the rural bill, but unfortunately there was only a small, empty, red package. In Dagens Samhälle and the newspaper Land kande man read that the bill lacks sharp proposals, that it feels like a mockery of our municipalities in terms of original promises and declared ambitions and that it is a meaningless vision. Who wrote this? Well, a number of Social Democratic councillors in Norrland. I would like to put the question to the Government: why did the Social Democrats and Minister Bucht choose not to include the sharp proposals contained in the Rural Committee's report in the bill for a rural policy worthy of the name?
i-QC1NCDhrbs9p2mdnrzFUG6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Peter Helander! The Rural Bill is a specialization proposal, and we want to tie the overall goal with the Riksdag. However, we are also presenting a mass of concrete measures. We set aside EUR 1.5 billion in the budget over the next two years and thereafter EUR 400 million annually. There is a lot of focus on entrepreneurship here. It is 430 million a year for the digitisation of rural businesses. This is technology development for rural businesses. They are production equipment for rural businesses. This is better funding for rural businesses. These are cultural initiatives to the countryside. These are broadband investments to rural areas. It's remote education for rural schools. There are a lot of concrete measures, and that is what we are presenting in the bill. I think the questioner has read the bill very badly.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-302	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you very much for your answer. I wonder if the Government thinks his own councillor has also read the bill poorly. Is his own councillor wrong? And I wonder if the Government thinks the Deputy Prime Minister is also wrong. She had a press conference the day before the government. I know that the Deputy Prime Minister also belongs to the government, but she held a press conference the day before and said that the rural bill is more general writing. Is that something that can be called sharp suggestions?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-306	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to tying the direction in the Riksdag, it is more of a general writing and an overall goal. But in the rural bill we report a lot of concrete measures to be taken. I mentioned some. I can also talk about housing and transportation. We also make investments on individual roads, which are very deprived in Swedish rural areas. Is it also flum and general writing? Does the Center Party really think that the investment in individual roads is general writing?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-309	Mr President, I would like to Biogas is an amazing energy source. Biogas can be produced from food residues, waste water, residues from agriculture, forests and so on. In this way, we can reduce our emissions and save the climate. But the conditions for producing biogas in Sweden are not good. Thankfully, the industry has now agreed on a long-term biogas strategy. And the government has previously promised to investigate the conditions for biogas production in Sweden and propose long-term instruments.
i-2yUyigTWXMrfWg8nvPDQPZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! We have a very ambitious common goal here in Sweden to achieve net zero emissions in 2045. And the government has set itself the goal of being the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The equation for how to switch to 100% renewable energy naturally includes biogas. The government has invested a great deal during this term of office, and we give extra support in the spring change budget of 270 million to methane gas reduction aid, where biogas is also included. We do this to give biogas better conditions. Biogas is part of the equation. We must also look at the overall picture where renewable fuels, electrification and other means of transport will be included. Biogas will be needed for various purposes in Sweden.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-316	Mr President, I would like to The 270 extra million are very welcome and is one of the reasons why the Left Party supports the state budget. But there is a need for long-term rules for biogas in Sweden. We know that the tax reduction is only valid for two more years, according to the EU. And we have a big import from Denmark. The industry now has its own target of 15 terawatt hours of biogas by 2030. Does the government have any objective for biogas? And how do we get the long-term prospects?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-319	Mr President, I would like to We now need to put together a puzzle with the energy sources we have in order to achieve the target of 100% renewable electricity generation and renewable fuels in Sweden. We have given great support through the Climate Scene. We will continue to do so, also for biogas. I agree that we need to take a holistic approach. We also need to see all the different elements of the equation, so that we get the best possible exchange on our investments.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-323	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. The LSS in general and personal assistance in particular are under strong pressure from the Deputy Prime Minister's own government. This is due not least to the directives for the ongoing LSS investigation, which are strongly criticised by us Liberals but also more in this House and all organisations. The investigation is bound to save, save and save personal assistance. According to the Swedish Radio Ekot yesterday, the Government's own party is now raising the issue of new guidelines and new reasonable directives in the governing body. The Green Party has been silent on this issue throughout the investigation period. I am pleased that the conversion has now come even though there is only five months of investigation time left. Can we instill hope in the thousands of very worried aid beneficiaries?
i-12VMxJCJ6f1q17MieLv474	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! When it comes to having a well-functioning support under LSS, the government and the Liberals are in complete agreement. We must ensure that the person in need of support really gets it. The investigation also has high-level goals of independence and participation. The basis for all of this is that the person who should have and really needs support should get it. It's a big and important mission for the LSS investigation. We will not impair the legislation. I can promise Bengt Eliasson and everyone in need of support according to LSS. Now we have this moratorium as long as the investigation continues. We will have to come back to the matter.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-331	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. The fact is that the investigation does not have the opportunity to come up with all the good things that the Government has just mentioned. All new reforms and all development efforts to come, according to the directives, are to be paid for by the very personal assistance. And that's what we mean is the core of the whole LSS.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-333	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of commitment to this issue – rightly so. This is a hugely important issue for all those who need support and assistance. The LSS investigation has an important and major mission. It will propose how the law should be clearer in terms of participation and independence and that it should be sustainable over time. These are the principles that we see as absolutely necessary. We will not impair the legislation. Those who need help will have their help.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-337	Mr President, I would like to I will allow the Deputy Prime Minister to continue to talk about the important issue of support and service for people with disabilities. Since the government began to talk in October 2016 about its willingness to cut back on aid to people with state assistance payments, it has just been implemented. Compared to the forecasts of the expenditure in the area of the needs that had been estimated to be present, 2016 saw savings of SEK 5 billion. For 2017, it was SEK 4 billion, and for 2018 it was almost SEK 4 billion. For 2019, the estimate is now just over 4 billion in savings, and the latest estimate for 2020 is 4.5 billion. My question to the Government is: Why is it right to make savings on those who have the greatest need for social support?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-340	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Emma Henriksson for the question. I think Emma Henriksson understands very well that the intention has never been to remove support from those who really need it. On the other hand, there has been reason to review this, so that our tax money really goes to those who are needy and not to cheat. Unfortunately, there have been suspicions and cases where assistance payments have been incorrectly used. There's still one. Emma Henriksson must also think that it is good to look at it. We are investing more in assistance support right now. What Emma Henriksson refers to is a judgment by an independent court. That is why we have frozen these decisions until we can give further information on the matter, that is, when the investigation has been able to complete its work.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-344	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. However, the report referred to by the Government has the task of providing additional savings, in addition to the savings of 20 billion that have already been made according to the forecast and the outcome that we can already see. I don't suppose every penny of this can be the cause of cheating. From what I understand, and from the investigations carried out by the Agency, these are persons with recognised and very extensive needs who have no longer received their assistance needs.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-347	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson knows that the ideas and thoughts that have come from the investigation to circumcise needs or help to the people who have need are not so if the government intends to go forward with. Now we have the moratorium so that the investigation can be concluded. The goal is for the person who needs help to be helped and for tax money to be used properly.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-348	Mr President, I would like to I would like to turn to the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and raise an issue that concerns a lot of people in Sweden. The SOM Institute has made a measurement showing that 55 percent of Swedes are very concerned about increased antibiotic resistance. There are more than those who are concerned about, for example, organised crime or increasing xenophobia. The anxiety is anything but groundless. Last year alone, more than 15 000 reported cases of infections in Sweden were caused by resistant bacteria.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-352	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Antibiotic resistance is one of the major global health challenges. Sweden has a long tradition of working with these questions. Already in the 1980s, we began to work to limit the use of antibiotics. We in Sweden have the lowest use of antibiotics in the EU. We are constantly working to tighten up EU rules in this area. We are pushing in Europe and internationally, and it is important that we do so. These bacteria ignore borders and move across borders. You can't just work nationally on this. We have also adopted a new strategy for antibiotic resistance and given the Public Health Authority a mandate to coordinate efforts on antibiotics in both humans and animals. It is very important work that we must continue to push forward.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-356	Mr President, I would like to So the government is very active. As the Minister for Rural Development says, antibiotic resistance is a global problem. Every year at least 700 000 people die worldwide because of resistance to various medicines. Livestock and fishing farms use many tens of thousands of tonnes of antibiotics every year. It seems completely unreasonable. There are still many countries where it is too easy to obtain antibiotics as a private individual. What do we do in concrete terms?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-359	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, there is now a debate in the EU on a regulation on veterinary medicinal products. We are pressing for antibiotics to not be given prevention to groups of animals. That is an example. We are also pressing, and have come a long way in this work, for the European Commission to make demands when concluding trade agreements with third countries. Antibiotics issues should be dealt with there to limit their use in other countries.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-362	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister and Climate Minister Isabella Lövin. Sweden has now adopted the world's most ambitious climate law. One model and source of inspiration for this law was Britain. What was so striking about Britain's climate law was that it had very strong support. Business, trade unions and society as a whole supported this law. What is exciting now is that we can see the same development here in Sweden. Since the law was adopted, industry by industry is now developing and saying that they will be fossil-free. Only two days ago, nine industries went out and presented their roadmaps to become completely fossil-free. This is of course a huge opportunity for Sweden's competitiveness, exports and to become the first in the world to change and create a fossil-free welfare society. My question to Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin is: What is the government doing to receive the positive feeling that exists in the business world?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-367	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for the question. I am extremely proud of the cooperation that the government and the whole of Sweden have mobilised around the ambitious climate goals. Two days ago I had the honour, together with Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg, to receive nine action plans for such heavy sectors in Swedish industry as mining, steel, construction, the haulage industry, cement, concrete, forest and the grocery trade. Thanks to the Government's Fossil-Free Sweden initiative, these have now made their own fossil-free roadmaps to 2045. It is world unity with such cooperation between the government and the business community. Together with stable conditions, we can now make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-371	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Isabella Lövin! It is inspiring that many of these industries want to move forward on their own. Many of them also demand support from the public, from politics. Not least the heavy industry has great technological leaps to make. When the industry itself says it wants to be fossil-free, what will the government do to assist in this work and help the heavy industry?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-373	Mr President, I would like to It is quite true that the industry is asking for state aid. The technological leaps that the steel industry or the cement and concrete industries have to make require a great deal of innovation and costs for pilot plants and the like. The Government has allocated SEK 300 million a year until 2040 for these technological leaps. I also hope that other parties here in Parliament can support this. Industry is demanding predictability, and then we cannot pull back the subsidies after the next elections.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-375	Mr President, I would like to My alliance colleague Peter Helander previously asked a question about the anti-rural policy of the government. I would like to follow this up by asking a question about the country cinemas. Swedish Radio P1 reported – after the investment in the spring budget of 15 million for cinemas had been announced – that it was compensation for the interventions that the government had made in film policy. In a written message from the Minister for Culture, she says that there is no requirement for matching or co-financing in this venture. However, the Swedish Film Institute's support regulation requires half of the investment to be co-financed or self-financed. Whose words apply, to the Film Institute or to the Minister of Culture?
i-6UnHq4g3shmzmMX5m5H9nf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson, for the question! This government has changed Swedish film policy after several years of more or less breakdowns where central parties to promote Swedish film dropped out of the negotiations. There was no order. From day one we decided to create order and good conditions for Swedish film. We wanted to make sure that those who make films can sit around the table and decide how the film will develop, and we have done so. Within this support, we have also worked out specific investments in rural cinemas. We want more culture for more people throughout our country. First, we have specifically earmarked money of 25 million, and now we have added another 15 million. This money is beneficial, and the latest figures also show that the number of cinemas in our country has increased.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-380	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there are very little facts in what the Minister of Culture says. Land variety cinemas have been closed down. Several country cinemas stand on the edge of the ruins because the tripled cinema VAT degrades their ability to operate. Now they are throwing in SEK 40 million, but this support requires co-financing or self-financing. How are these cinemas going to do this?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-382	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that a politician who represents a cultural policy that wants to completely devastate all the efforts that this government has made is trying to speak warmly for the cinemas, the film and the art of our country. What we have done is to increase the cultural budget to become the largest in the history of our country. In this there are special initiatives on film and on cinemas.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of State and Minister of Development Isabella Lövin. The government now wants to give amnesty to 9 000 men without protection reasons so that they can stay in Sweden. Many of them have lied about their age and are not children at all. At the same time, there are millions of children on the run around the world. A large part of them are unable to attend school at all. Unicef speaks of a lost generation. The situation in southern Africa is also acute, and children are starving because of resource shortages. My question to the Minister for Development is: Is it really a reasonable priority to spend 2.9 billion, as the government wants to do over two years, on unaccompanied men? This money could help 10 million refugee children to obtain school material. Is this really a reasonable priority?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-387	Mr President, I would like to This government has made 1% of gross national income go to aid. That makes us absolutely extraordinary in the world. What Julia Kronlid is painting is a false dilemma. There is a need for countries that stand up for refugees' right to a place of refuge. There is also a need for countries to help on the ground. Sweden has done and does both of these things. Over 65 million people are on the run in the world. Far too few countries take joint responsibility and accept these people. There are also far too few countries that provide sufficient aid. Sweden does both of these things. We are commended by the Secretary-General of the United Nations for doing exactly these two things, which the rest of the world should also do.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-390	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Development says that refugees should have the right to a safe haven. What if it is not about refugees, but about people who have no reasons for protection? What signals does it give if people who come to Sweden are allowed to stay on wrong grounds and the government invests a lot of money in it? Over two years, 2.9 billion will be invested. At the same time, in my opinion, far too little money is being spent on aid for refugees. The Swedish Democrats want to earmark 10 billion for refugee aid in the immediate area. The government doesn't.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-392	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, the Swedish Democrats have set themselves the target of having 0.7% of GDP in aid. So you have less in aid than we have. Secondly, there must be legal certainty in the examination of asylum grounds. The long processing times that have hit those who arrived in autumn 2015 mean that we cannot live up to the EU asylum procedure directive. They have had to wait more than 15 months to have their case tried. The government therefore believes that there are sound reasons for granting this group a chance to stay.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-394	Mr President, I would like to Last week about 90 lumberjacks were here in Parliament on Forest Day, as the Christian Democrats organised. Sweden has about 330 000 individual forest owners. Many feel a great deal of uncertainty because of the actions of authorities around the country. It's about key biotopes where landowners feel completely powerless. They feel that property rights are in danger. There are inventories, and landowners who have fine and well-managed forests now choose to harvest it before it – as they experience it – is too late. Because once the land has been classified as a key biotope, it's over. You can't cut a single stick of your own land. Key biotopes have become a restraint. I and others have repeatedly voiced this concern, as many forest owners feel, to the Minister for Rural Development. Why doesn't anything happen?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-397	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Let me first establish that property rights are protected by constitutional law. It does not question this government in any way. As far as the Forest Protection Act is concerned, it was put in place by the previous government. Let me also say that if that law is in conflict with property rights, we are prepared to change that particular legislation. As far as the key biotope inventory is concerned, there is no prohibition. But there is an FSC label where the industry has agreed not to harvest in areas that have received this label. So the state is not saying that there is a ban here.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-400	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The concern is that many do not feel that this is a good thing, but the opposite. Many feel that it is a restraint and that property rights are in danger. Many, as I said, have great concerns about authorities that claim their land. Another issue I have thought about is that the government often talks about the national forestry programme. A lot of people are waiting for it. When is the government going to pull it out?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-403	Mr President, I would like to The government works very intensively with the national forestry programme. I hope I can present one before the end of the term of office. As far as property rights are concerned, I will take it again: it is not contested by the government, but we defend it. It's constitutional. So there is no doubt about it. As regards the key biotop inventories, the state has not decided that it should not be harvested there. However, if there is an FSC label, the industry has agreed on this.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-407	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Yesterday, the freedom of the press organisation Reporters Without Borders presented its freedom of the press index of the world's countries. This shows increased hostility towards journalists and the media around the world. Politicians openly show contempt for journalists and the media. Four of the five countries that have lost most in this year's ranking are in Europe. In the past, Europe has always been a bastion of freedom of the press, but today it is the continent where it is going the fastest downwards compared to other parts of the world. Sweden retains its second place, which is great. But I still have a question for the Minister: What do the government and the Minister for Culture and Democracy think can and should be done to influence this worrying development both in the EU context and vis-à-vis the Nordic countries? Finland's lost a lot.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-410	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Carlsson, for an urgent question! Freedom of the press is under threat in the world. This is a development that we have been able to see clearly in our European cooperation and, of course, also in the looks of the world that the government has all along. But I, like Gunilla Carlsson, am also concerned about how we can protect and strengthen our freedom of the press and our journalists' ability to carry out their important democratic mission. This is how it is in Sweden: The threats to journalists have increased significantly in recent years. This is serious, because it also helps journalists not to dare to do their job. They do not dare to examine the most pressing questions or examine such as myself, which are to be examined without and before. That is why we need to ensure that there is a clear system in which we work both with the rule of law, with the police, so that there are resources there and with preventive action. More knowledge is also needed. This is what we are doing now. We are investing millions in this.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-414	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is great that the government and the Minister for Culture and Democracy are so clear on these issues. Sweden is in second place, which is fantastic and good, but these threats also exist against Swedish journalists and the media. How can we use what we do in Sweden in our contacts with politicians in, for example, the European countries in the EU context?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-416	Mr President, I would like to I mean, we can do a lot of things. First of all, we should strive to be number one. We're gonna win over and beat Norway here too. However, we in Sweden also need to think about how we behave towards each other, so that we do not contribute to the hateful climate that exists in social media, among other things. It is one of the channels most used when journalists are threatened. We must also be very clear and highlight when we encounter resistance or rhetoric that is hateful to journalism and the opportunities of the free media.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-418	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. The police shortage and insecurity are real. Sweden has the lowest police density in over ten years. People feel increasingly insecure, and that is, unfortunately, justified. Then it's not even enough with more cops, as the Moderates suggest. The other day, it was an element on radio about local security guards, which currently exists in 54 municipalities, including Uppsala. It has been a real success in Uppsala. Together with the Swedish Police Authority, Uppsala Municipality has applied for a new period and a slightly larger area. Unfortunately, the police department has now decided to cut back on the area instead of up. The justification seems to be that there have been too few interventions, which was precisely the point.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-423	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Roswall for the question. The government is investing SEK 2 billion extra on the police this year. A total of 7.1 billion will be invested by 2020. We have doubled the number admitted to police training compared to the period of the alliance government. We also open new training places in Malmö and West Sweden. It is very important that we have good resources for the police. But it is also very important that we work preventively, so that those at risk of falling into crime will be caught up before they get there. We have a wide range of measures to do this. We strengthen schools, recreation centres, social services and other things. There are many ways to work preventively. Order guards are more of a local question.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-427	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, or whatever I'm going to call it. Maybe it wasn't really an answer. It is not just a local issue, it is the rule of law that governs this. It showed that the people were very satisfied, that the security officers were satisfied, that the local police were satisfied and that the municipalities across party boundaries were satisfied. But here we see that the legislation is not enough, because it sets limits.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-430	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is extremely important for people to feel safe in their daily lives and for children and young people not to have to witness shootings or acts of violence in their local environment. That is the overall goal that the government is working towards. We have devoted an enormous amount of resources to a calmer environment and safer and safer areas for people in the particularly vulnerable areas. We will continue to do so. It is too early to speak on this matter.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-433	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. It concerns the 9 000 unaccompanied minors against whom one of the government's proposals is directed. If they intend to study at upper secondary level, they may stay. Now it is the case that probably none of them have upper secondary qualifications at all. They will therefore end up in vocational training, that is, in adult education, which is a municipal issue. There are no places, money or staff available. Today in Sweden we have a pressing need for teachers at all levels. From where does the Council of State intend to shudder the 500 additional teachers that we would need, who should be trained and fit to take care of these 9 000 people? No, Mr President, this is not working. Let us hope that the Moderates will come to their senses, vote for the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and put the government's proposals where it belongs – to the trash. That's how much it's worth in our world.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-436	Mr President, I would like to I thank Stefan Jakobsson for the question. This group, which came to Sweden in the autumn of 2015 and had to wait longer to have their case examined than the 15 months the EU Asylum Procedure Directive says are reasonable, has rooted itself in Sweden. They have families who care about them. In many cases they already go to school and have very good school results. Today there are good opportunities for those who now get the chance to stay in Sweden if they attend an education will be an asset to Swedish society. These are young people who really want to establish themselves, want to stay here, want to educate themselves and want a chance for a safer world. I am very pleased that the government is now giving them the opportunity to do so, given that they have had such high hopes and been here for so long. Otherwise it would be wasted.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-438	Mr President, I would like to We hear they want to, want to, want to. But they don't want to give up who they are, and they don't want to give up their real age. There's a problem right from the start. To correct the Government: We put 0.98% of the UK in the aid framework, not 0.7. We are even adding 250 million more than the government in actual aid. The figures that the Government was talking about here earlier with my colleague Julia Kronlid are actually three years old. Maybe we shouldn't stand in front of the kids here for an election year and make fake news in front of everyone.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-440	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats spend 0.98% on aid this year and the next three years. But in your budget you write that your objective is to have 0.7% in aid. I don't call it fake news. When it comes to taking responsibility and having a spirit of solidarity towards the world around me, I would not say that the Swedish Democrats are exactly the shining example. People need support, no matter where they live.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-443	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Today, there are many challenges to women's and girls' rights: wars, conflicts, sexual violence, authoritarian leaders and states that take the right to control the bodies, choices and space of women and girls in society. Now the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government have adopted a new strategy for global gender equality and women's and girls' rights 2018– 2022. What difference does it make in the world? What are the main priorities and actions?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-446	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Willner for the question. We are now adopting a completely new strategy that focuses on gender equality at global level. This is because we see a very strong opposition to the progress that has been made at global level on women's rights and women's opportunities to develop. For example, women's right to decide over their bodies and their sexual and reproductive health is called into question. It adds SEK 1 billion to 2022. It's about supporting women's organisations. It's about protecting women's rights activists. It is also about supporting research and data collection that is gender-disaggregated, so that countries are much easier to see what the differences are between girls and boys and between men and women. This will also allow us to make the right decisions and target resources where they are most needed to support women. This also supports the participation of men and boys in gender equality work.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-448	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Recently, the Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality was held. The people I have spoken to were very positive about the conference with its clear focus on concrete actions. What we need are concrete measures and clear political positions. What are you bringing from the conference, Prime Minister?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-450	Mr President, I would like to The Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality was a great success, with over 500 participants from all over the world. There were participants from the government but also women's rights activists and others who are now inspired by Sweden's feminist foreign policy. Now Canada also has a feminist foreign policy. You start talking about these issues in a completely new way, where you should always consider women's role in foreign policy and in society when you talk about foreign policy.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-451	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe in Swedish agriculture and Swedish food production. These are industries that have the potential to contribute to many more jobs and increased economic growth. However, in order for the potential to be realised, the competitiveness of the entire Swedish food chain needs to be strengthened. The overall objectives of the food strategy focus on competitiveness and increased production. Unfortunately, the government has not been able to take or actually present any substantial concrete measures to achieve the objective. What is needed are measures that reduce costs for agriculture. Taxes and charges need to be reduced, but also costs due to regulatory, administrative and special requirements. A recent report from SLU shows that the number of legal requirements relating to agricultural companies has increased by 120 per cent over the last 20 years. Against this background, I must ask the Minister for Rural Development: what concrete measures is or is the government planning to take to ease the burden of agriculture?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-454	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We have established a national food strategy in this House in broad agreement. After that, the government has allocated SEK 1 billion to measures to achieve the food strategy's objectives, which are very much about increasing our food production. We have started more than 40 different measures to increase production. Many of the measures are aimed at primary production and many at the food industry. It is an unprecedented export effort that we are currently working on, which is 48 million to get Swedish food out on a new market. The government has today taken a decision to go in with 50 million to stimulate organic food production. It is something that is good for primary production that gets better profitability.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-458	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister for Rural Development did not give a concrete example of what is being done to clean up the rule jungle. Swedish farmers need better conditions and not only targeted subsidies. It is not the policy's task to govern whether Swedish consumers should buy organic or conventionally produced food. The government must make proposals that clear the regulatory burden. The Moderates have presented a battery of suggestions. This involves, for example, targeted environmental and animal protection, relaxation of the planning and construction rules and, not least, fewer specific rules.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-461	Mr President, I would like to The honourable Member is well aware that the rule jungle he is talking about is based on the common European policy we have. This programming period was established and prepared by the previous government. This government has started working on the new programming period that will enter into force in 2021 from the first day. It is about simplifying, removing all unnecessary rules and removing all bureaucracy. We have also started to get the European Commission's ear for that.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-463	Mr President, I would like to Democracy and human rights are in sharp decline in our world. Responsible political parties and politicians are a prerequisite for democracy finally gaining hold. We Christian Democrats defend democracy aid and, not least, what is channelled through party-related organisations that often have unique and confidential cooperation with sister parties in new democracies and dictatorships. However, we see no sign that the government is doing the same. On the contrary, according to new guidelines, the support of the sister party as we know it today will disappear in part. That is why I want to know: what ambitions does the government actually have for supporting the world's opposition politicians? The Minister just spoke hotly about the great effort on women in the framework of feminist foreign policy. But not once were women politicians mentioned and their support.
i-KePD3fJL1WX3TF1m5yJL6T	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the question. Partisan aid has been evaluated a number of times by Statskontoret and various assessors who have seen that there is room for improvement in the effectiveness of partisan aid. It should follow the same high standards as the rest of the aid so that it really supports democratic forces on a broad basis and the democratic institutions of our partner countries in a good way. That is why we are reviewing the strategy for the aid activities of the party-related organisations so that we ensure that the quality of the standards we expect and that the parties really go in the same direction.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-468	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. There is a lot in Swedish aid where there is room for improvement. Of course, it should always be examined and improved. The Alliance government stressed the importance of this support precisely as a complement to the important support for civil society. No one will vote for a civil society organisation. We need responsible politicians. I'm sorry you look like you're making the change. I would therefore like to check: how will we in Parliament be involved in the further work of changing PAO guidelines?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-472	Mr President, I would like to The Government is responsible for how the aid is designed. On the basis of the evaluations that have been carried out, we have seen reasons to ensure that the aid paid to the party-by-party organisations is assessed by a single organisation so that we ensure that we genuinely support the general political and democratic principles that are needed.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-473	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Per Bolund my question. Quick loans and so-called SMS loans are a major problem in society. It is a small sum, often a few thousand crowns. But it can also be a few thousand procen ts interest. It runs quickly when you then have to pay back. Those who do not already have problems risk having problems when they take these loans. Those who make money from the loans are rogue companies. Now, at last, there will be proposals on interest and cost ceilings on loans and also rules on not having such aggressive marketing of loans. I would like to ask: how do we now follow up and ensure that it is followed in practice so that consumers know their rights and that we can nail those companies that are not doing well?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-476	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for a very important question! The quick loans – or SMS loans, as it was previously called – have been a rapidly growing phenomenon in Sweden. The first company came in 2006, at the same time as the bourgeois government took office. Unfortunately, for eight years nothing happened in this area, but the market was only seen to grow and grow. The government has made sure that we now get regulation. We get an interest ceiling of no more than 40 per cent in addition to the government loan rate, which is a sharp drop in levels, and also a cost ceiling so that you never have to pay more than the same amount as you have borrowed. For example, a loan of SEK 1,000 can never cost more than $1,000. It protects consumers, who are often very vulnerable. The rules will be incredibly important to bring order to the market. But, of course, we must also ensure that our authorities have resources and missions. There we have commissioned the Swedish Consumer Agency, for example, to review marketing and also the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to have a review of these companies so that they really behave according to the rules we now set up. We should simply protect consumers from entering into very bad economic agreements.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-480	Mr President, I would like to The Council has also made proposals to facilitate debt restructuring. That means you get a second chance if you're over-indebted and you can't pay your debts. As a result, debt restructuring applications have doubled. That's very good. But I think this is even more important. It is a question of preventing one from ending up in the debt trap and at Kronofogden. I very much hope that we can move forward in this area. It's really important.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-482	Mr President, I would like to This is a very big individual problem. People who fall into debt are facing major social and also health difficulties, and this also affects relatives. It is also a social problem. People cannot take part in the economy, plan their future and settle in the way they want, and it costs society a lot of money. I am therefore pleased to now both reduce the inflow of those who become indebted and also help people out of debt. We are pleased to see how the number of debtors in Kronofogden's register is now finally decreasing. We're on the right track.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-484	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. There are quite a few of us who live north of Dalälven who like the freedom to ride a snowmobile. I am sure that the Minister for Rural Development, who lives in Nor rbotten, also shares the joy of being able to take the scooter and go for a ride. This week, the government has set up an investigation to review the cross-country driving law. We know historically during this term of office that when the government has done something related to motor vehicles, it has rather been negative. We heard here earlier about environmental zones and mileage taxes, and we have seen the tax increases on fuels and everything. Of course, there are many snowmobile owners who are worried. I'd like to know how the Minister for Rural Affairs views this investigation. What needs to be changed and clarified? That would be a clarification with a response from the Government.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-488	Mr President, I would like to This question is put to the wrong minister. I don't deal with these issues. However, I can say that I am very happy to drive a snowmobile, and I know that very many north of Dalälven also very much like to drive a snowmobile. In addition, I know that many others come up to the northern parts of our country and drive snowmobiles. I do not know the details of this investigation, but it is clear that there is a reason why this is being reviewed. There are problems with snowmobile driving. It's not all just fancy. I know that, too. There are quite a lot of plantings being broken, not by those who normally like to drive snowmobiles, but there are free-riding in the mountain world that causes huge problems, not least for reindeer husbandry. There is probably reason to look at this, but unfortunately I cannot go into the details because it is not my area.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-491	Mr President, I would like to I assume the Government will follow the media in Norrbotten. There is, of course, a debate now in which parties in the Sami Parliament, for example, want to take over control and supervision of snowmobile driving in certain areas. It is also stated in the Investigation Directive that effective supervision should be looked at. It would be interesting to hear the rural minister's opinion on whether it is intended to lay out, for example, supervision of certain reindeer husbands.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-493	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should speculate on anything like this at this point, but now let the investigation look at this. It is, of course, a question of dealing with driving that is completely unjustified and that also destroys a lot for the industry up there. It's important to get to it. It is not about the normal driving up in Norrland nor about the m who come to visit. It usually works very well.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-495	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Sweden should have reduced its emissions by 85 per cent by 2045. This Parliament has decided. Stefan Löfven said in his government declaration that he wants Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In the budget for this year the government launched Industrikliv, an initiative in which the heavy industry can get support for projects that go towards fossil freedom. My question is: Has the work started, and how has the interest of industry been?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-498	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for the question! The answer is that the work has started very well, and the industry has received this support with open arms. This is exactly what they're asking for. As I said earlier in response to another question, industry is today concerned about one thing only, and that is that there is not necessarily a long-term and continuity of this support, because there are parties on the other side of the block border that do not want to continue. In any case, they have not budgeted for continued support. What we need to do is to help our industry make the technological leaps they need to become carbon neutral. The steel industry is already under way. SSAB, together with Vattenfall and LKAB, has now received the first money for a pilot project to start a steel production that does not use carbon without hydrogen. This can become a world-unique technology, and this is something that makes us together in Sweden really able to protect even our business community.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-501	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Does the government have any other measures to support the industry to reach the target of 2045?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-502	Mr President, I would like to Not least the Prime Minister has, ever since we started a collaborative programme and has taken a number of initiatives together with the business community to listen to what questions are important for the business community to be able to re-examine. For example, we have an electromobility project where we can help the transport sector – including heavy transport – to switch to electric vehicles.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-504	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Isabella Lövin. As a member of Parliament from the Stockholm region, I have visited Hammarby Sjöstadsverk during my term of office. It is adjacent to Henriksdal's treatment plant in Nacka. The plant is a leading FOU plant in water treatment technology. It is run by IVL, the Swedish Environmental Institute and KTH Royal Institute of Technology and is used for both national and international projects. One of their projects aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from waste water and sewage sludge management. It may not sound so innovative and sexy, but the technology used is advanced and has a great effect. It is also exportable. Mr President, I would like to Since the government as a whole has an export responsibility, I would like to ask the Government what is being done to help Swedish companies export Swedish technology that reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-508	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for the question! That we should change to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country is the government's goal, and that has been from day one. We have also taken global leadership to help the world change. Here, of course, the export of climate-smart technology is central, as is helping developing countries that need help not least with waste systems, sewage treatment and other smart technologies that we can demonstrate. This also applies to social systems. We have many delegations visiting Sweden, not least in Hammarby Sjöstad, who visit us to see how to arrange smarter waste systems and a climate-smart society. Both through the export strategy and through our aid work and international development cooperation, we are constantly focusing on this.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-511	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I believe that this type of export is not only economically and ecologically correct, but also important for different regions of our country. I grew up during the Water Festival years, and I believe, for example, that it is important for the Stockholm region to be able to fortify its proximity to water. Now that is not what we are going to talk about here, but I would like to ask you a supplementary question about water purification. How can you work more specifically with water purification and export?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-513	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I cannot answer that question in detail, but the demand for Swedish know-how and technology is very great. We have many visits from many countries, asking how we work on these issues. I can mention small island states which have groundwater problems and which come to us to ask how to improve. This is something we can go out with.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-516	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. The question concerns Cuba. Cuba has a new president, Miguel Díaz-Canel-Canel. After 58 long years, a Castro is no longer the highest leader in Cuba. Unfortunately, not much else is new in Cuba. After all, when the United States released its embargo, expectations were high that there would now be a change. Many hoped for political opening, perhaps even a little more freedom of expression and democracy. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened. The democracy movement is more harassed than in a long time. Last Sunday, representatives of the Damas de Blanco – ladies were imprisoned in white. My question to the Minister for Development concerns how Sweden should act. When will the government start making demands on Cuba's dictator, and what do we want to achieve with our cooperation with Cuba today?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-520	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Weimer, for the question! We share the concern about democratic developments in Cuba and in many other countries, may be added. Sweden has for a long time supported the democratic forces in Cuba to also support freedom of information, collection and protection for the courageous forces working for more open and democratic development, which have themselves been threatened. We see no reason to withdraw support for democratic forces or freedom of expression efforts, which focus on our development cooperation with Cuba as well as with many other countries where there is democratic development that sometimes goes in the wrong direction. Sometimes it goes in a better direction.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-523	Mr President, I would like to I mean there is more that Sweden can do. A road goes through the EU. When the EU is to implement the agreement it has with Cuba, the democracy movement should be invited. They have not been allowed to participate in the drafting of the agreement, but this time they should have a formal seat at the table and be recognised in that way. I would like to know whether the Minister for Development is prepared to pursue this issue in the European circle. Another issue concerns the agreement that Sweden has with Cuba. There we could make greater demands on human rights and democracy.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-526	Mr President, I would like to Of course, Sweden is pushing that civil society and democratic representatives of women and others should always be present at negotiations of that kind. I dare to promise Maria Weimer that Sweden is pushing this issue in the EU context. We are engaged in an open dialogue with the government on our expectations and principles, and we are not holding back criticism.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-528	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco issues. It is an area that affects all of us in one way or another. All areas are equally important, but for time to come I will only deal with tobacco and prevention among our young people in particular. There are too many who sell tobacco products to minors and only risk a warning. We think that is far too mild a punishment. It is always the person who gives out the goods who is personally responsible for not anyone under the age of 18 being able to buy tobacco. We agree that the Tobacco Act needs to be revised and tightened up so that anyone who violates the law on selling tobacco products to minors immediately loses the right to sell tobacco products. In so doing, I would like to express my support for reservation 5. Nine out of ten of those who start using tobacco do so before the age of 18. Early prevention of tobacco use is extremely important because tobacco use is often the gateway to heavier drugs. You don't start with drugs, you take it step by step. In 2016, the ANDT strategy was renewed, which consists of six objectives. One of the objectives is to gradually reduce the number of children and young people who start using drugs, doping agents and tobacco or who start early with alcohol. All the objectives are important in the strategy, but to get our young people to refrain from starting drugs is, in my view, a priority. School is one of the most important arenas in tobacco prevention. School is the place, next to home, that can affect children's and young people's lifestyle choices most. There are several organisations and associations around our country that actively work to prevent drugs. I was going to mention the Be smart association in my municipality of Söderhamn. There prevention is done in an exemplary way. Be smart is a tool for creating community and a vi-feeling among the children and young people who make smart choices. By becoming a member of Be smart, you sign a contract with your parents where you actively opt out of alcohol, drugs, bullying and other negative behaviors. Be smart aims to show that good choices lead to positive effects and make it clear to children and young people that there are many who choose to refrain from alcohol, tobacco and drugs, etc. As a member of Be smart you get a lot of great benefits, and you have the opportunity to go on fun trips, disco, movie nights and other fun. Since graduation in 2007, there is an event called School's Out. The event is a sober festival where something for all ages is represented. It is a conscious choice to put the event on the graduation to shoot at any alcohol debuts and to show that you can have fun without alcohol. Mr President, I would like to Smoking is generally decreasing in our society, but not in school where our children will learn for life. Although smoking is prohibited in the school area, 7 percent of students smoke every day or almost every day in high school year 2. Another 18 percent smoke sporadicly. With thought-out preventive work, the school has great opportunities to succeed in preventing tobacco debuts. The sooner tobacco is started, the greater the risk of developing disease conditions in the future, with consequences for both the individual and society at large. In order for such preventive work to succeed, it is important to ensure, in parallel, that access to tobacco, alcohol and drugs is made more difficult for our young people. It is of great importance that parents and schools work together – where our children spend their free time – and we decision-makers. We all have a great task to try to prevent our young people from getting into addiction and show ourselves to be good role models. The bill New law on tobacco and similar products is in preparation and will eventually be debated in this House. It contains important proposals which will also affect tobacco use for all.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-541	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. Welfare policy has many legs. Security of illness and unemployment, as well as financial security in childbirth and after the end of working life, what we call retirement, are probably the pieces of security policy that most people primarily think of when talking about welfare issues. In Sweden, however, we have also chosen to build support systems to help citizens deal with all the risks posed by the consumer society's temptations. We have a school system whose task is not only to produce a well-functioning workforce but also to convey knowledge of living conditions, social skills, public health knowledge and a lot of other things that make it easier for citizens to live a good life. This report focuses on some of the pleasures that may pose a threat to the health and welfare of the individual and its loved ones if they are not handled with great caution. Thanks to strong popular movements and insightful politicians, Sweden has for a long time been characterised by rules and values that have slowed down the use of alcohol, tobacco, drugs and doping agents. There are, however, enormous economic interests in these products, so the draft battle if the customers are constantly going on. Looking back for a few decades, or perhaps a hundred years, we see that the results of the draft struggle have waved back and forth. There are drug liberals who believe that it is entirely up to the individual to decide his or her own use of drugs. But then it seems to have forgotten that our social contract around the welfare society also includes values. Basically, the model is based on us taking responsibility for each other, not just for ourselves. There is, of course, much to be said about children who suffer when their parents are unable to limit their use of tobacco, alcohol or other drugs. It is not just about the extent of the use, but also about how the drugs are used. The children are always the worst affected. There is also much to be said about how social security is changed by affected car drivers or unpredictable people in other contexts of society. Drugs often lead to violence, and alcohol is a major cause of growing health costs. I think that all of us in the Committee on Social Affairs could talk for hours about the problems caused by ANDT use. But I thought, Mr President, that I would focus on the proposal on farm sales, as I am sure colleagues in the committee understand. In fact, the report proposes to look again at the issue of the sale of alcohol by farms. The issue has already been investigated twice during the time of the alliance government, and it was stated that this is not possible. Christian Democratic Minister Maria Larsson stated in 2012 that it is not possible to combine farm sales with maintaining Systembolaget's monopoly – which is another of the support structures that we have created to help people live a good life. We should not forget that when Sweden joined the EU, the requirement to dismantle Systembolaget was sharp and clear. The EU's demand was for Sweden to fully open up and liberalise the alcohol market. The compromise reached to protect Swedish consumers against over-consumption of alcohol was that the monopoly should remain on condition that domestic products do not benefit in any way and that all producers – note it: all producers – in the EU who so desire have the right to sell through Systembolaget. We in the Green Party therefore see the proposal to re-examine the issue of farm sales as pure populism, that is to say, a third time. For the Alliance government pushed the investigators to the bottom the last time the issue was investigated. The investigators then concluded that allowing farm sales presupposes that all producers of alcoholic beverages in the EU must be allowed to sell their beverages on these farms as well. Each farm would then in practice become a Systembolaget store. The investigators also stated that the concept of farm according to the EU cannot be defined in rural areas. The right to establish farm sales therefore means that such outlets can be established anywhere in the country. The requirement for non-discrimination also means that the EU does not accept a restriction for producers in other EU countries to establish so-called farm sales in Sweden. It is self-evident under EU law that all EU companies should be treated in the same way and have the same conditions. What the opposition is proposing without daring to say is, therefore, to re-examine how one can knock away the legs of Swedish alcohol policy so that the country can be flooded by alcohol sales outlets. Those of you who act for farm sales may not understand the consequences. However, if you think you have understood, I think it would be more straightforward for you to state clearly that what you are seeking is the right of establishment for the sale of alcohol. If that is not the case, if that is not what you are aiming for, your proposal today is only populist walrus. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 3 and of the committee's other proposals.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-557	Mr President, I would like to Today, 800 000 people depend on alcohol, 55 000 people depend on drugs and about 45 000 have a drug-related dependence. This results in 2,500 deaths a year due to different dependencies. Four out of five violent crimes are committed under influence, and society's costs are nine times higher than the amount that municipalities and county councils spend on care and treatment. It is bad, but above all it means human suffering. Then the collected right wing comes in and wants to talk about farm sales as its biggest issue today, as if alcohol were any good. I have to say, I'm amazed. I will come back to that question. Today, there are politicians from almost all parties who trust research and evidence. There are others who do not believe that a purely repressive drugs policy is a good model for limiting the number of addictions. The Left Party is the party that has long focused on a drugs policy based on research and evidence. It is also we who have pushed the issue of exchange and made it now realized, which we like. Equality is a key factor for fewer people to become addicted. Fewer life chances give more addicts. The Left Party wants to strengthen the resources for care and treatment, legislate on the right to help relatives, strengthen the care guarantee for addiction, strengthen work with young people in addiction, create more detoxification sites, increase accessibility and have a special focus on women and young people. But we also want to reduce the damage to those who are active in their addiction, combat the high death rates and, last but not least, increase police work against serious drug crime. After all, we have pushed the issue of removing criminalisation for our own use. The police all too often focus on the individual addict while the focus on dealing has been reduced. It is the drugs that should be illegal and not the addicts. We want to investigate how the Act on Criminalisation of Own Use has affected the number of addicts and users and their quality of life, health and drug freedom. We believe that there is a need for a solid national drug knowledge centre based on research that can compile and assess the quality of what is being done in this area, monitor research internationally and compile an annual report on the national situation and developments in drug-related injuries and deaths, where Sweden has been very high for a very long time. We want the government to investigate the conditions for a national knowledge centre for interventions against drug-related injuries and deaths with the aim of reducing the morbidity and mortality of the group using drugs. That is reservation 2, and I support it. Approximately 400 000 children grow up in families with hazardous alcohol consumption, and 100,000 children have a situation where parents are in contact with addiction clinics or are cared for in hospitals for addiction and addiction. However, only 2 000 to 3 000 children receive support because of their parents'abuse. Many of these children are suffering very badly. Today it is voluntary for municipalities to give advice and support to these children. Therefore, we want the government to investigate whether legislation is needed to ensure that children and young people of parents with addiction and mental illness receive broad support and assistance. When you open the door to the alcohol industry, as you do, you start to wonder: What are the consequences for these children? The Left Party stands for a solidarity-based alcohol policy. This means that we believe that the availability of alcohol should be limited. We must have high taxes, a strong Systembolaget and stricter rules for private entry. It's something completely different from the flum-right ideas around this, I have to say. Lower total consumption means that alcohol-related ill-health and mortality are reduced. That's what we've been working on in Sweden, but you might have missed that on the right. The more alcohol is consumed, the greater the damage. Allowing the farm to sell alcoholic beverages alongside Systembolaget would of course mean a departure from the systematic and coherent alcohol policy we have had in Sweden and which has been very successful for a very long time. Systembolaget is quite amazing, I think. In addition to buying locally produced products in the nearest Systembolaget store, consumers across the country can order the product for collection in one of Systembolaget's more than 400 stores or at one of about 500 retailers. Systembolaget has everything. It's a great place. You can go in and get tips on what to have for the lamb meat and so on. But they also hold back alcohol consumption. It's kind of a priority one, I thought. They have so many different goods, so much service and so much responsibility. But you're gambling with this. You are opening the door, and you are doing so because you believe in market forces in the area of alcohol policy too. And this is not the first time this issue has come up. It's been investigated twice. Everyone's said no. On 16 September 2012, Minister Maria Larsson stated in a radio interview that the then government did not intend to make any proposal regarding the proposals in the sub-benching on farm sales. The government considered that it was not possible to maintain Systembolaget's monopoly if the proposed farm sale was introduced. What has changed during this time? This is pure populism that you're driving on. Your announcement is a long way from public health but close to the lobbying organisations that pushed the issue. You're always close to the market. I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I choose to support only reservation 2. I demand that everything else be rejected.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-573	Mr President, I would like to The report we are discussing today contains some 200 different motions tabled by Members of this House during the general period of exercise and a number of motions tabled by the parties. The fact that the debate is not so much about the breadth is due to the fact that most of these requests have been dealt with by the committee in the past, and they are therefore dealt with in a simplified form. Of the 200, I think it is 34 that the report deals with more specifically, and some of them concern the same thing. Like many others in the debate, I will focus on the issue of alcohol and how we in our country will continue to stand up for what is the Christian Democrats' position on alcohol. We must have a solidarity and a restrictive alcohol policy. It has served us very well and is very important in order to minimise the damage that we know a high use of alcohol brings. As several speakers have mentioned, it is children who are very likely to get hurt when adults drink; of course, it is also true if they drink themselves. We know that much of the violence, both in streets and squares and in close relationships, is due to the high use of alcohol. It is therefore important that we have a restrictive alcohol policy, and Sweden should continue to have that. This requires both general and specific measures to reduce overall consumption in general, with a solidarity-based ambition, and specifically to help those who have fallen into substance abuse problems and suffer from alcoholism disease. But there is also a need for broad action in the form of information and an active pricing policy. The Christian Democrats have been involved in raising the tax on alcohol before, in a government position, and we are prepared to do so again. It is an important tool. Age limits are an important tool. But perhaps one of the most important tools is the retail monopoly, and it defends the Christian Democrats. The retail monopoly has what one might think to be side effects in this context. For those who want a limited use of alcohol, this means a wide range of supply, especially in rural areas, where, without a retail monopoly, there is likely to be a fairly limited supply. However, it is still a secondary issue in this context. The retail monopoly means we're holding down the mill. This is the solidarity: that we take responsibility for each other as fellow human beings. We Christian Democrats are not prepared to risk the alcohol monopoly. And just as Hans Hoff raised, it is not farm sales in themselves that are the great threat to public health. Several assessors conclude that farm sales as such would not have a significant impact on alcohol use and thus not have a significant impact on public health. However, if a farm sale exemption would put the retail monopoly at risk, there are great risks. That is precisely why, Mr President, the decision of the majority of the committee is designed as it is, provided that Systembolaget's retail monopoly can be maintained. So it is not a question of whether it should or could be maintained, but on condition that the retail monopoly can be maintained in favour of legislation that allows farm sales to a limited extent. What we hear in high notes about the fact that we really want something else, that it really means something else or that it will mean something is therefore not correct. The decision is subject to the maintenance of the retail monopoly. We see that farm sales can in themselves bring something positive, for the countryside and the tourism industry, and so we do not want to be against it if it can be introduced without threatening public health. Mr President, I would like to I can be seen as a little nagging in this debate, but I really want to inculcate once again that the Christian Democrats view farm sales positively and see the benefits, but only if we retain Systembolaget's monopoly on alcohol. The question has been investigated in the past. Both of the previous in-depth investigations came to the conclusion that there were then no conditions for introducing farm sales. I understand those who think: Why should you investigate it again? Haven't we got as much ground as we can in this? I have a great deal of sympathy for those arguments. At the same time, however, we know that things are changing. If there were now the opportunity to reconcile these two things, we think it might be worth testing that way. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-584	Mr President, I would like to If any party really knows that this is not possible, it is the Christian Democrats. Is there any party that really knows the social consequences of the alcohol monopoly disappearing – how many children are going to get hurt, how many more women are going to be raped and how many more people are going to be beaten – so are the Christian Democrats. Why am I saying this? Well, the Christian Democrats had the Ministry of Social Affairs in the former bourgeois government. Göran Hägglund and Maria Larsson were responsible for these issues. The question of farm sales was pushed to the bottom. It was found, both in the Ministry of Social Affairs and in the whole government, that it is not compatible to introduce farm sales and at the same time maintain the alcohol monopoly. The Christian Democrats stood up for this in Parliament as recently as a year ago. In a statement to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, we noted this, and then the Christian Democrats were also involved in saying: this is a threat to the alcohol monopoly. Therefore, those motions were rejected. Today we have a parliamentary majority to move on with this. Either the voters are being misled by some form of alcohol populism, or a different view has now emerged on alcohol issues, in which we are actually taking the first steps towards removing the absolutely most important tool we have in Sweden for having a low alcohol consumption, that is, the state monopoly on alcohol. My question to the Christian Democrats and Emma Henriksson is, Mr President: which of these two options is it?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-588	Mr President, I would like to The committee deals with quite a few motions dealing with farm sales in a few other ways. Many of them come back from year to year, but they are also included in this report for simplified treatment. There are exercises about introducing experiments in different ways, perhaps test regions or so. The committee does not support this. The conditions are the same as when we dealt with this earlier. If we were to try, it would be likely to erode the alcohol monopoly – that it would end by exceeding what is possible under the agreement we have with the other European countries. That is why we are not prepared to do something like this and to go that way, and so we do not approve of any moves in this direction. What we are saying is that this can only be allowed if the retail monopoly can be maintained – only under that circumstance. Then we're ready, because it's not the farm sale in itself we're against. It is the preservation of the alcohol monopoly that we are in favour of. There, nothing has changed, either within my party, in those who represented us before or who represent us now or in the votes we have had internally when the matter has been discussed at our national level. There is just as strong a position of solidarity, precisely because of what Mr Hoff points out: we know what the risks would be. We're not prepared to go that way. But investigating in itself does not pose a threat. And if there's still a way, that's not the problem, is it?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-591	Mr President, I would like to I said it on two occasions in my speech, and I can say it again for the sake of knowledge: allowing the sale of wine or other self-produced products on farms would not increase overall consumption to any extent. I do not think that would even be measurable, and that in itself would not be a problem. We wouldn't mind it either. But this is about the risk of the alcohol monopoly. Two governments and also the present Social Democratic Government note that this is not possible to reconcile with the alcohol monopoly. It is a question that is so investigated and fucked at the bottom that we know that there is no such possibility. Yet this is being pushed forward. There must be some reason why you push it forward when you know it can't be done. I am more and more inclined that it is a question of opening up to an alcohol market in Sweden. It is a multibillion-dollar issue for the alcohol industry and for trade. It will not stop at farms, but then there will be microbreweries, other manufacturers and, ultimately, supermarkets. Then it is suddenly a matter of economic policy, and there we must not discriminate against other players when it comes to sales and the like. A two-three we have a situation like in Germany and Denmark with alcohol in grocery stores, in petrol stations and in 7-Eleven stores. There will be a rise in consumption that will be grotesque. As I said in my speech, there is research published on what this would mean. It has enormous social consequences for children, women and men, yes, for everyone. It has consequences for drunk driving and so on. I am deeply concerned that today we have a majority in the Swedish Parliament to move on with this issue.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-595	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the honourable Member's view of the risks. These are serious risks, and that is why it is so important that we stand up to preserve the monopoly of alcohol. Nevertheless, I appeal to the debaters from the other parties: do not try to make the debate about anything other than the decision that we are actually going to take! We are not taking a decision to tear up the alcohol monopoly. We are not taking a decision that would put the monopoly on alcohol at risk of being demolished. There were motions for such proposals, but the proposal we are now debating does not mean that. According to the committee, the government should, provided that Systembolaget's retail monopoly can be maintained, work towards legislation that allows farm sales to a limited extent. In particular, listen to the last words: and to a limited extent. ..................................................... I agree that there is a difference between small farms producing wine and selling to a small extent and breweries being opened on each and every corner of the street or someone selling their seasoned snaps and so on. It is important that those who take a positive view of farm sales of wines also see the second part, which may mean something else. I will come back to the fact that it is not farm sales per se that are the problem. That is why we will not stand up for anything that puts the monopoly on alcohol at risk. But it's not relevant to be completely opposed to farm sales. If an investigation were to prove that it is compatible with the alcohol monopoly, we believe that it may be welcome.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-600	Mr President, I would like to Emmas's party, the Christian Democrats, has, like the Liberals, for many decades been in favour of a very restrictive alcohol policy. I'm a little surprised that you jumped into this proposal. As before, I wonder what it is you expect to see through a third costly investigation. What do you want? You want something that says farm sales are fully compatible with the alcohol monopoly. After all, the other investigations have said that it is not. What's changed? I'm very curious about that. The EU is looking at this now. After all, we do not live in a small bubble, but the European Union is very interested in what is happening on this issue. It's a thin line, so to speak. If we are to retain the retail monopoly, we must remain within the framework. Otherwise, we can say thank you and hello to it. What do you think a third investigation is going to show? The fact that the Moderates are in on the proposal does not surprise me at all, because they have more of a hello and bra attitude to alcohol. But the fact that you Christian Democrats are doing this surprises me very much, because you have been on a completely different side. You have also had a minister who has made it very clear that it is not compatible with maintaining the alcohol monopoly. What's changed, do you think? What is the outcome of this investigation? And why do you not believe in the research that exists on this issue? The research says very clearly that if the alcohol monopoly goes off, we're in a lot of trouble. The fact that you really dare to walk this narrow line of balance surprises me.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-605	Mr President, I would like to I am a little surprised when Karin Rågsjö asks why we do not believe in research about the negative consequences it would have if the alcohol monopoly were abolished. I don't think anyone has understood that we are not prepared to risk the alcohol monopoly. We believe in research. We believe in the experience. There is evidence in everyday life that shows that the alcohol monopoly is important. It is an essential part of the restrictive and solidarity-based alcohol policy. We won't risk it. The decision today does not mean that we are risking it, because it is a precondition for the decision to be taken. What can a new investigation mean? I'm not sure a new investigation can come up with anything new. It may well be that a new investigation comes to the same conclusion – that is, that it cannot – even if you look at other roads than you have looked at before. That's why I'm not afraid of such an investigation. A prerequisite for the limited introduction of farm sales is, of course, that it should be possible to combine with the retail monopoly. That's why I'm not so afraid of what such an investigation will come up with.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-608	Mr President, I would like to At Emma Henriksson it sounds almost as if you already know the answer. I am therefore surprised that you Christian Democrats did not choose not to jump on this train, which is clearly driven by the Moderates. Liberals are pushing it a little more marginally, I have to say. Why didn't you stand by? You could have said that this did not feel okay and that it will not lead anywhere, but instead you have rushed into the alcohol populist gang. Behind this there are very strong market forces and large lobbies. It is not only limited to Sweden but also abroad. They'd love it if we didn't have a monopoly. Then you would have to heel alcohol a little bit everywhere, and their market share would increase significantly if people drank more. I am still surprised that the KD is one of the parties that drives this question and almost tells themselves – before the investigation has even begun – that the investigation will not give an answer. I do not understand what has changed in the EU and in Sweden. It'll be interesting to see. You, Emma Henriksson, yourself say that nothing will change. But why didn't you choose to stand by your side? After all, you have not pushed this issue with empas before.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-612	Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure we're running it with very big emphases. The fact that there is heat in this debate is due to the fact that a lot of things are said: that the parties actually have a different agenda and that the decision actually means something else. Farm sales in themselves could have a positive effect. Farm sales in themselves do not pose a threat to public health. That is something we believe. This is something that several other representatives in the debate have argued. Hans Hoff was very clear in his speech and in the line shift that it is not the farm sale itself that is the threat. We gain nothing in public health by being against what does not threaten public health. There is a contempt for politicians, however, when, as it were, they resort to stricter rules and tougher frameworks than is necessary to limit them. If farm sales can be introduced so that it has the positive effects that it could have on a viable countryside, for the tourism industry and for Sweden as a visitor nation without risking public health, we are not afraid to open up to that possibility. But that doesn't make us mess with the principle. Alcohol policy must be restrictive. Does anyone believe that the Christian Democrats are going through market forces? If we were to do so, we would say: Lower the alcohol tax! Take away Systembolaget! Do commercials! Remove age limits! It's the opposite of what we do. We stand up for, and will continue to stand up for, a restrictive and solidarity-based alcohol policy.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-619	Madam President, I would like We are discussing an issue that is extremely important for public health. I listened carefully to Emma Henriksson, and I think we agree that the sale of beverages produced on the farm is not a problem. I understand that the position of the Christian Democrats is that sales themselves are not wrong, but I believe that the sale of what is produced on the farm does not contribute. There I think we agree – as long as it keeps to this sale. However, it is now the case that these sales are not relevant in this context. Previous studies have shown that farm sales will not only cover what is produced on the farm, but will allow all producers throughout the EU who wish to sell on the farm in question to do so. Emma Henriksson says that there is an exception and that this should not threaten the retail monopoly. However, the study that concluded that this is not possible clearly states in the mandate that the sale of alcoholic beverages by farms can be carried out in a way that is compatible with EU law and the retail monopoly without leading to negative consequences for public health. I wonder what's new. In your explanatory statement, I do not see that anything should have happened since 2010. I cannot see that something would actually have happened in European legislation or in European practice or that something else in the world would have happened that would enable an investigation to come up with something else. What you are proposing in this report is precisely what it was tasked with investigating in 2010. You used the designation. To a limited extent. Can you tell me what a limited extent is in your argumentation?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-624	Madam President, I would like It is not just something I say in the debate that is to be introduced to a limited extent, but that is the decision. It is this – that it allows farm sales to a limited extent – that is the text of the committee majority. It can, of course, be a bit difficult to define. However, we have this particular problem: is it only what is produced at the place where it is made possible, or would it mean opening up the possibility of full-range sales? Then we mean that it is not farm sales – it is not to a limited extent. It is therefore a precondition of the decision being taken. The honourable Member also asked what has changed since the last investigation. I am not convinced that anything has changed. I am not convinced that another investigation will arrive at someone else. But I am also not afraid that, with the reservations that exist – that it should be limited and provided that the alcohol monopoly can be maintained – open up the possibility if there are conditions to do so.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-627	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson is not afraid to conduct an investigation because she knows that it will come up with nothing other than what the previous investigation has concluded. I think that is the case. Then you can ask: What is the motive for spending money on an investigation? We now have a term of office experience that investigative resources are a scarce resource in the Government Office. Why is it so important to put resources on something that you know will not lead to anything other than what we already know? That is an important question to be answered. Clearly, what a limited scope means is not known. Another question that I think the listeners would be interested in getting answers to is whether Emma Henriksson can vouch for that what is said now really applies when the investigation is completed, if it is now completed. I hope that the House will come to its senses and realise that you should not waste money on something that will give nothing but what has already come out twice. But if it is the case that the investigation concludes that this is not possible, is the promise still valid that there will be no change that risks the monopoly? I'd like to know.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-630	Madam President, I would like What I know is what is the position of the Christian Democrats. I have listened to representatives of other parties, both current government parties and aspirating parties in the Alliance, and to what is the committee majority's proposal – and that is the preservation of the alcohol monopoly, not the risk of the alcohol monopoly. There is no majority for anything that would risk the alcohol monopoly. Given that I do not believe that the parties are going through any metamorphosis for the next parliamentary term, I am quite convinced that this will continue to apply, because that is the position of the constituent parties. Then it is clear that I can promise just as little as anyone else on any question that all parties will forever take the same positions as they currently have. But the decision we are making now is quite clear. What my party and the other alliance parties, with which we want to be part of a government, will work for is that, if possible, to enable farm sales to a limited extent with preserved alcohol monopoly. If possible, we are prepared to do so, but not under any other conditions. That is what we are seeking support for. There is nothing else we seek support for, nothing else we want to do and nothing else we will do. There is no hidden agenda, but this is the decision that we want the Parliament to make.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-633	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Each individual is the most important starting point for Moderate politics. Sweden is one of the world's best countries to live and grow up in, but although much is good, we must never stop taking hold of what is really a problem. Many people in Sweden are very well and live fantastic lives far up in the years. At the same time, there are children, young people and adults who are not well off. There are those who grow up and live in an environment that is sometimes directly harmful and dangerous. Long - term and widespread abuse of alcohol, drugs, doping agents, or tobacco is a threat to life. It's a fact. At the same time, the use of alcohol, for example in connection with meals, can be a great pleasure. Balance is as important here as in other parts of life. Conducting preventive health work is a matter of course, so that more people have access to new knowledge and proven experience. At the same time, people must be free to decide their own lives. Madam President, I would like We want to help people who need support, care and treatment. We will do this through a solid analysis where reality is viewed from different perspectives. Without analysis, we cannot deal with the shortcomings and challenges of today and tomorrow. Sweden's restrictive policies on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco are basically good. The Moderates strive to find a balanced balance between, on the one hand, restrictiveness and, on the other hand, opportunities for farm sales of beer, wine and cider produced locally around Sweden. Of course, such activities should be able to be conducted under controlled conditions even in Sweden when it is quite possible in other countries of the world. Madam President, I would like For many years, the Moderates and alliance parties have been working to find a solution to allow farm sales. Now the whole Alliance agrees to try to implement this, which is very good. Many thanks to all the alliance parties in this work! Madam President, I would like We want to draw up legislation which allows the sale of alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine and cider to be allowed on condition that the monopoly of Systembolaget can be maintained, which is important. Madam President, I would like In other parts of Europe and the world, farm sales are already allowed, and it has given the countryside another leg to stand on. Finland, which is also a member of the EU, already has farm sales. They also have an alcohol monopoly, just like Sweden. Sweden has great potential to increase jobs in production itself, but above all in the tourism industry. How many visits do our wine or beer producers have around the country, where they work to showcase their business? Visitors will then have to taste and learn about the production and work at the vineyard or in the brewery. But then, Madam President, when it comes to the question of whether they can buy any of these premium products with them, this is impossible in Sweden. Instead, they must order or get to the nearest system company in order to obtain the products. This is perceived by many visitors and tourists as both complicated and bureaucratic. Many therefore refrain from buying. This does not give a good picture of Sweden as a country that wants to develop and take advantage of rural areas and entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Alliance have now worked out a majority to allow farm sales in Sweden. It provides more jobs and increased tourism and creates new opportunities for rural areas. While in the Alliance we want to give rural areas these new opportunities, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left are saying no to this. On 9 September we can replace this anti-rural government. Let's really do that. Madam President, I would like It has been known for a long time that the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party have opposed farm sales in Sweden. They have thus actively opposed new jobs and companies in rural areas and in Sweden in general. The government has recently presented its proposals to the countryside but does not mention in a single word the farm sale and its possibilities. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left obviously do not want to take advantage of rural opportunities. We Moderates want a living countryside with businesses, jobs and growth, while the Social Democrats, with decisions after decisions, are trying to reduce the situation in rural areas. Farm sales are not a health problem but an opportunity for the country's smaller breweries and vineyards to continue working. Madam President, I would like We see possibilities, while the left parties only see problems. We see new businesses and new jobs in rural areas, while the left parties are doing everything to stop this. We want to allow farm sales, while the left parties are against this. Politics is to want, someone said, but the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left apparently have no will. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that the countryside can produce much more food and drink and more forest. It can increase tourism, provide more companies and more jobs and increase growth throughout Sweden. The countryside is one of our great assets, and we intend to take advantage of it. We'll say yes to farm sales. We say yes to more jobs and growth throughout the country. But we say no to this anti-rural government.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-649	Madam President, I would like Yes, Sten, this was an interesting debate. I feel like I've ended up in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Social Affairs and not in the Committee on Social Affairs. You are raising nutrition principles and quite different issues from those we are debating. I don't know if farm sales can save the countryside. I think the red-green parties have better stuff going on. But now I return to what we are going to talk about, namely alcohol policy. You said something interesting in your speech, Sten, because you said that there are already farm sales in other countries. Yes, it does, in France, Germany, Italy and so on, but there is no monopoly. You also mentioned Finland. It's an interesting country that you should always look at, because there they have a lot of good stuff going on. But Finland's only exception from its system company is that you can sell alcohol made from fermented berries on the sixtyth parallel; it is quite limited. Is there something similar you have planned, Sten? I must ask after listening to you: What do the Moderates think about Systembolaget and the alcohol monopoly? Do you think we should keep it? Do you think we should strengthen it? Our monopoly on alcohol has contributed to less alcohol consumption and less alcohol damage, and that is what this debate should be about and not the principles of nutrition. Behind the question of farm sales is the whole market on toe and hopes that Systembolaget will crack so that you can heel their products in a completely different way. So what do the Moderates think about Systembolaget and the alcohol monopoly?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-656	Madam President, I would like I was quite clear in my speech that we say yes to Systembolaget. We even intend to make a decision that a prerequisite is that Systembolaget can continue. This should be clear to those who have listened to the debate. Karin Rågsjö mentioned that the red-greens have invested in the countryside. Then you have done so without anyone having noticed, because no one has noticed anything other than that you have imposed new petrol and diesel taxes and a flight tax and that you are going to charge a kilometre tax. Your only investment in rural areas is bush clearing in the areas that have begun to grow again because of your poor rural policy. This is where you bet money. Instead of making sure that we have grazing animals and growth in the countryside, you are bringing out clearing teams to keep the bushes away from the land that is growing again under your direction. So your rural policy leaves a great deal to be desired. The Left is rather loud in this debate, so I have to ask: what is available when we talk about public health? Is it more accessible to go out to the countryside and buy a bottle of premium wine or beer, which may cost twice what the equivalent would cost somewhere else, than to get a bag-in-box to the door via Systembolaget's home delivery? Your policy certainly does not benefit public health in the way you claim in the debate. Your policy helps those who want door delivery while we think that people can go to breweries or farm sales to buy a premium product.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-661	Madam President, I would like If the debate on public health problems is to be held at this level, I'll probably have to change committees and sit on the Committee on Economic Affairs, because that's where you're moving, Sten. For me, public health is that we have an alcohol monopoly that holds and has a fantastic service. It has the alcohol monopoly today with its different places where we can order products and get advice and tips while it resists alcohol consumption. What are your thoughts on the total consumption model, Sten? It is part of this debate. If we drop too much on the taps, many people will drink much more, and then we will get more alcohol damage. Sweden has worked towards this, and we managed to keep our system company in negotiations with the EU. But it was very conditional, and we lighten it and start selling berry wine and then other products are done for Sweden. I do not think that the biggest problem in rural areas or in people's awareness of public health is how alcohol should come home. That is not what public health is all about. Public health is about how we avoid that the lives of many are flooded with alcohol, such as children and young people. That is what the restrictive alcohol policy in Sweden is about, not how to quickly get a bag-in-box or buy berry wine in Falkenberg, for example. I still wonder what your position on the monopoly is. It sounds a little cracked.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-666	Madam President, I would like I repeat: we want to maintain Systembolaget, but we also want to find a solution to introduce farm sales in Sweden. Several speakers have said that farm sales are not a public health problem, but you are still trying to stop it. You are even so afraid that you do not even dare to look at such a solution. Finland is also a member of the EU, and they have found a solution. They have also expanded some parts and adapted with different volumes and other things. The investigation will, of course, look at how we can reconcile farm sales with the maintenance of monopolies. Like the majority in Sweden, we want to retain the monopoly, but we also want to develop the countryside and give it another leg to stand on so that both production and tourism can increase. This is quite possible according to the industry and many others, and then it is obvious that we should seize that opportunity. We've been planning on developing the countryside a little more than just setting up a grubbing-up team to clean up the bush that's grown up in your four years. Let's have a more moderate debate. It is not Systembolaget's product or not to be but to farm sales, which we are in favour of, as I said in my speech. You're against it, but you don't have a good argument. You're just saying something's going to happen. Should we find ourselves in the position that the EU wants to try this, farm sales will be tested separately, if it goes against it. You don't try the monopoly. It may be good to know in a debate where some may try to mislead others.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-671	Madam President, I would like The last thing Sten Bergheden said was very interesting. It can be interpreted as meaning that you intend to introduce this without having checked with the European Union how it works. You said that you would have to try this in Europe, which makes me even more afraid. Madam President, I would like I'm used to the Moderates being careful with the state finances, with the economy. That is why I wonder why you want to investigate this again. The only argument Sten Bergheden had in his speech was that the Alliance is in agreement. When you sit in government, as you did for two terms of office, the prerequisite for the work you do is that you agree. You have agreed on this twice before, so I do not understand what the new thing is about you agreeing this time. These are the same wordings this time as before in what is to be investigated. The question I asked Emma Henriksson and did not get an answer to, I ask you too, Sten Bergheden. What is it you know that has happened in how Europe is dealing with this that makes there a reason to investigate? There is nothing in the report that you can refer to that gives reason to try this one more time. We have limited resources to investigate things. Then we will try to use them for things that can lead anywhere. Farm sales according to the model that the Moderates are behind, i.e. farm sales that do not allow any alcoholic beverages other than those produced on the farm, have already been tested twice. I therefore wonder: what do you know, as the rest of us do not know, that makes it possible to spend money on this one more time?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-676	Madam President, I would like First of all, I do not intend to anticipate the investigation that will take place. If we had all the answers to the questions Jan Lindholm asked about exactly what it should look like, we would not need an investigation. That is why we will appoint one – that is the foundation. Jan Lindholm from the Green Party claims that money should not be wasted on an investigation. I do not know whether the Green Party should talk about spending money on investigations at all. I can only mention Bromma airport. How many investigations were carried out, and how much money did you spend in the Green Party and the government investigating the closure of Bromma airport? If you had used that money to instead set up the alcoboms that we need at our border stations around the country, we would have stopped alcohol abuse and drunk drivers driving into the country. But you chose to spend the money on an investigation of something as pointless as the closure of Bromma airport. I do not think that the Green Party is the right party at all to question an investigation into the sale of beer and wine on farms.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-679	Madam President, I would like It is equally interesting every time a counter-debater has no arguments and does not want to discuss the substance of the matter. Sten Bergheden chooses to talk about completely different things. But now we do have a report on ANDT issues, and what we – all the parties here – have chosen to discuss is mainly farm sales. Then I think you should stick to the subject. Do the Moderates believe that an investigation into farm sales should be about the sale of drinks produced on the farm, or is it supposed to be as the previous investigation said: that this presupposes that other producers in the EU may also sell their drinks and products on these farms? What's the deal? What do you want to accomplish? I have still not heard any other argument but that you agree in the Alliance, as you have been twice before, when you set up investigations with the same purpose and the same mission. What do you know that makes you want to throw money away on this one more time, when you have received such clear signals? The concept of a farm has nothing to do with the countryside. Sten Bergheden argues a lot about the countryside, but the farm is everywhere, according to EU law. Farm sales will not take place in rural areas, but will take place where customers are located. It's strange that you can't stick to the subject. I do not know whether Sten Bergheden is so familiar with the report, but this is an issue that is very carefully investigated under the leadership of your own party twice. The facts are on the table. Why throw away money on this one more time?
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-683	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I was unclear in my last post, but I said: I'm not going to do the investigation. We intend to set up an investigation that looks at how this is to be resolved – the very wording that we agree on. I can read it to the honourable Member one more time if it was unclear. We want to draw up legislation that allows the sale of alcoholic beverages on farms, such as beer, wine and cider, provided that the monopoly of Systembolaget can be maintained. That's our initial value. Then Jan Lindholm wants me to add directives to the investigation on what it will come up with and what we believe and think. I do not know how you in the Green Party work with investigations, but were directives added to the investigation that Bromma airport should be closed down? Is that how you work? No, we are looking at this unconditionally. M en we have the ambition to find an opportunity to allow farm sales in Sweden, because we think it is good for the countryside. We believe that it is better to invest in the rural areas being able to build up their industries and continue to work. We do not believe in emergency measures such as the Environmental Party and the rest of the government are working on – to start cleaning up after a failed rural policy.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-687	Madam President, I would like Swedish beverage production has increased explosively in the last ten years. 555 new producers of alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine, cider and spirits have established themselves since the 1990s, and today these companies employ about 5 000 people. They are located all over the country, from Skåne to Norrbotten, and are usually small or medium-sized companies, largely located on farms in rural areas or in small towns. But it is still not possible to sell beer and wine to visitors on site, which radically restricts the activity and impairs the possibilities of Swedish beverage exports but also the potential of Swedish tourism. In Scotland, for example, the whisky industry is producing and receiving 10 500 direct jobs, of which 7 000 are in rural areas. By allowing sales to visitors to farms and breweries, connoisseurs and enthusiasts would have the opportunity to buy drinks, and sales to foreign visitors could benefit beverage exports and strengthen Swedish tourism industry throughout the country. The visit inquiry presented to the Government last year notes that the possibility of farm sale of alcoholic beverages would benefit the development of entrepreneurship, employment and meal tourism throughout Sweden. Finland, which also has a retail monopoly, is often raised in the debate – here too. It has long been allowed to sell berry and fruit wines, a production that today is not so large in Sweden but which I think has potential. The Finnish Parliament has also recently decided to allow beer farm sales of up to 12% for breweries in Finland. The change sets a limit for maximum production but basically includes all craft breweries. In Finland, farm sales are apparently more about national political will than about the EU acquis. What the committee is now saying is that it wants to find a model to combine S ystembolaget's beverage monopoly with farm sales. One model that investigations could look at is to allow producing companies to become stock-holding agents for Systembolaget and sell their drinks on site on the farm. If the concern about what the EU will think is strong, the Center Party proposes that the model be tested in a number of selected experimental counties during a trial period. Region Skåne has already decided to apply as a experimental county, so the country is ready for a workshop. If the EU were to oppose the model, just roll back and try again. Now it's time to let go of this-it-go-never-mentality and actually try. Madam President, I would like Today there are small-scale producers of alcoholic beverages throughout the country, including in central parts of cities and urban areas. Allowing farm sales for these small-scale beer manufacturers suggests that some opponents would increase accessibility. But, Madam President, the system companies are located in the most central and accessible places in every city. Systembolaget has also established e-commerce with retailers, and today there are about 500 retailers in the country. In order to make alcohol more accessible to the Swedish people, Systembolaget has introduced home driving for those who do not want or can get to a physical system company. They also talk about Systembolaget as guarantor of quality. Systembolaget's biggest selling wine in 2016 was Zumbali – a three-litre white bag-in-box for 60 crowns liter. The cheapest beer on the System costs less than the cheapest non-alcoholic beer on the System, and the cheapest farm beer is just over 10 crowns more expensive than the most expensive canned beer. At the same time, Swedish craft beer in record time has received international attention for its quality, and several Swedish beer varieties and breweries rank high on international lists. Don't get me wrong – I and the Center Party believe that there are really great advantages to Systembolaget's retail monopoly, not least from a public health point of view. In order to anticipate possible questions of reply, I would like to say: Yes, the Center Party is behind Systembolaget. However, I think there will be a strange debate when Systembolaget is applauded unbridled while farm sales are painted as a threat, while at the same time we see that Systembolaget is investing in big selling cheap bulk products and increasing the availability of alcohol for the Swedish people. Madam President, I would like The Swedish alcohol monopoly also means that small producers are entirely in the hands of Systembolaget's regulations and logistics activities to reach out to the consumer. Several producers testify that selling their products through Systembolaget has become increasingly difficult and difficult. With a change in distribution systems and regulations, many small, local producers of handcrafted drinks have now found it more difficult to get their products out in the local and rest of the country, and have therefore had to look for new sales channels, such as restaurants or exports, in order to continue their activities. We believe that it is important that state Systembolaget as a monopoly company takes a special responsibility and ensures that the conditions for small breweries and other artisanal beverage producers are equivalent throughout the country. But instead of seeing that Swedish craft drinks are a growing industry with great potential, where Systembolaget with its monopoly could make it easier for this industry to continue growing throughout the country, you go to storm against them. Last autumn there was an advertising campaign in Scanian newspapers: How much does a bottle of wine cost on a farm in Skåne? As much as the whole Systembolaget. Large and state Systembolaget started with Swedish people's money a campaign specifically aimed at Marguerite and Staffan at Snårestad Vin and Marie-Louise-Louise and Carl-Carl-Magnus at Villa Mathilda in Arild and painted them as a threat to public health – small businesses who want to create a vibrant countryside and strengthen Sweden as a food and beverage nation, who wants to create jobs and growth throughout the country. The same argumentation uses members of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party in their argumentation and paints a horror scenario of rape, abuse and ill-treatment if farm sales were to become a reality. I think it's ugly and unworthy. Should there be a genuine willingness to seize the incredible potential that exists in Sweden for small-scale alcoholic beverages, the government parties would try to find ways to make it easier for this industry to grow from the per mil of total sales that are actually involved. Instead, they choose to make it an issue of public health and portray small-scale producers as a threat. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party are so pleased that a majority of the Parliament today expresses its support for the sale of certain alcoholic beverages on farms. Farm sales are really an opportunity for the whole of Sweden to grow. However, the compact resistance of the government parties clearly shows one thing: If farm sales are to become a reality, a new leadership for Sweden is needed.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-705	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Social Affairs' report 8 deals with a broad range of issues relating to drugs and addiction in our country. I will concentrate on alcohol, and later my colleague Christina Örnebjär will talk about drugs. Madam President, I would like Whoever's stuck in an addiction isn't free. The sufferer of alcohol abuse suffers a great deal and often suffers a great deal of grief, misery, and suffering. It is important to state that the Liberals are responsible for a very restrictive alcohol policy. We want to maintain Systembolaget's monopoly, and we strive to have a high alcohol tax as important tools to keep the alcohol damage down. Madam President, I would like In addition, an overwhelming majority of the Swedish people want to keep Systembolaget for a number of reasons. But you actually want to keep it. So do I and the Liberals. We want to protect young people from early contact with alcohol. At the same time, alcohol damage, as many have said in the debate, is very expensive and difficult for society. The later young people start drinking alcohol, the less the risk of alcohol problems later in life. That is why preventive work for children, young people and parents is so important. Having said that, I must also stress with emphasis that we liberals have great confidence that adult people are wise enough to decide their own lives. None of the restrictive measures or damage prevention that I have mentioned, and which many speakers have mentioned here today, would be counteracted in any way by the fact that at the same time we benefit entrepreneurship, the experience industry or the tourism industry through small-scale farm sale of alcoholic beverages. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we are now getting more and more micro breweries, wine producers and producers of spirits. At home in my Halland we have several very serious entrepreneurs who are consciously committed to creating delicacies of absolutely the highest quality and who have also received international awards. These activities are usually, but not always, farm-bound and part of developing and creating employment in parts of Halland that are not conurbated or not on the coast. Just as our producers of cheese, charcuteries, fish products and all other sweets can let visitors taste what they sell of their goods directly at the farm, it is perfectly natural that even farms that produce beer or wine can do so. The liberals are for the idea that it is possible to find a model that does not threaten Systembolaget's sales monopoly. We Liberals do not believe that small-scale farm sale of self-produced beverages is in itself a threat to the restrictive alcohol policy. The volume of farm sales of beer and wine that can be foreseen does not, in our opinion, mean any serious deterioration in Swedish alcohol policy. It will not help to increase alcohol damage. According to the farm manufacturers themselves, sales via Systembolaget are much more important for their business idea than farm sales in terms of volume. But farm sales are an important part of enabling them to develop and share their marketing in collaboration with local experience producers in the tourism industry – to get to this with trails and visitor trails so that bus tourists will actually find out about the country and experience more. In our view, it is possible to reconcile a socially responsible alcohol policy with an open and welcoming view of the entrepreneurs who run small-scale alcohol production in our country. Of course this must be followed up. Follow-up of permits granted for farm sales is likely to be done in many ways in the same way as for other permits granted in pubs, restaurants with several locations. In the first place, this is a question of promoting entrepreneurship in the form of small-scale tourism, creating jobs and strengthening the Swedish tourism industry. Madam President, I would like It is for this reason that the committee's decision is not only a great success, but it is also well balanced in its wording. Like the previous speaker, I would like to quote the following: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is not a question of loosening up the Swedish restrictive alcohol policy. It will remain in place in the future. It is about entrepreneurship, tourism and overall experiences. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report as a whole.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-717	Madam President, I would like I wonder if you agree in the Alliance. We have now heard a representative of the Moderates and a representative of the Center Party talk about experimentation. We heard the representatives of the Christian Democrats talking about the risks involved and that is precisely why you do not support the motions on these motions. Then I will have to express my hope to the Liberals and the Christian Democrats in this case. Therefore, I wonder whether the Liberals can also envisage a trial, and whether you will ensure that any – god forbid – alliance government after the election begins with a trial of farm sales.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-719	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Lindholm, for the question. How to implement and introduce new legislation that would allow entrepreneurship in rural areas is precisely what we need to look at. That's what an investigation will come up with. If we are then to recommend that it be experimental or experimental in other ways or how it should otherwise be done in an implementation period, I do not know. We have not taken a stand on this in advance. We must first see whether it is possible to implement something like this, provided that the monopoly of detail can be maintained. In that case, we will approve a proposal for such legislation. Then we will also see what the recommendations are for the introduction.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-722	Madam President, I would like I take this as meaning that the Liberals can imagine a form of experimentation. I think it is important for this to come out. Now Emma Henriksson is not still in the Chamber, but the Christian Democrats will surely find out in retrospect what is being said now even if their representatives are not here. I believe that this is crucial because the analysis that has been carried out in the past, twice, and which at least the Christian Democrats are still insisting on, says that experimentation is a serious threat to us being able to maintain the monopoly. Bengt Eliasson speaks well for the small producers in Halland. I just want to say to you: The big market for those you protect is via Systembolaget, not through own farm sales. Think about it when you move on!
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-725	Madam President, I would like I repeat my previous answer: how to introduce this new legislation and at what steps it needs to take, I cannot respond today. Neither will we answer that today. The decision today is to announce to the government to conduct an investigation and look at the possibilities – to see the opportunities. We protect the monopoly of detail, we protect Systembolaget and we defend the very restrictive alcohol policy for the sake of public health and for all those whom Hans Hoff so well described in his opening speech. These are the consequences of alcohol abuse, among other things. The difference between us is that we also see the possibilities of small-scale sales. It is about promoting entrepreneurship, promoting rural development and benefiting those producers in Halland who want to develop the tourism industry together with other stakeholders who do other things. They need to be helped to attract people, interest and so on. This is done through experiences: being able to eat together, being able to taste wine and also being able to take the products home from there. Your concern for us, Jan Lindholm, is quite unjustified in terms of the way in which this is done. Our good investigators and then this House will have to decide exactly how to try or introduce new legislation.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-729	Madam President, I would like A man from one of the user associations once told me, "You can't help a dead junkie." That's why we have to help people while they're still alive. In just this 24 hours, three people in Sweden will die a drug-related death. In Sweden today, for a long time now, we have zero tolerance of drugs in society. It's easy to absorb, it's easy to understand and it's easy to communicate. I wish it would also be easy to implement. We Liberals want another zero vision: a zero vision of drug-related deaths and drug-related suffering. The most important thing should be that people should not have to die, not have to suffer and not have to feel bad. Unfortunately, the zero tolerance to drugs that we have today has become a zero tolerance to those who use drugs. I have met so many distressed mothers, fathers, children and siblings who talk about how little consideration is given to psychiatric diagnoses because the starting point is that it is the drugs that are the problem. For those who are fragile, the carpet is pulled away when you finish treatments because you first want to investigate a drug abuse. When we talk about alcohol, we often talk about use and abuse and sometimes also about risk use. Many probably recognize the work colleague who drinks far too much at every conference or neighbor who has a bag-in-box of rosé in the kitchen during the holiday and is a little bit small-packed more or less every day. But they do their jobs, their homes and their families. Few would think of calling them either alcoholics or, for that matter, criminals. Few people say anything about your alcohol use before you have problems that are really noticeable. I'm not gonna compare alcohol to drugs. That would be naïve in parts and not relevant in other parts. But I intend to compare the view of man. One who is an alcoholic and abusing, we see as ill. The drug addict is just a criminal. If we really are serious about addiction being a disease, we cannot continue to use punishment as a cure. Madam President, I would like We often talk about protection factors but also about what is commonly called risk factors. That is why we so often talk about exclusion and socio-economics and about the importance of context, security, things to do and people who care about you. Why, then, do we believe that we can eliminate addiction by removing all that protects? In my opinion, a first step in actually helping rather than overturning would be to decriminalise the use of drugs for own use. That is something that the WHO also supports. The person who has narcotics in his body should not be treated as a criminal just because he has narcotics in his body. I want to be very clear here because we often misunderstand each other. To begin with, this is so far my opinion and not that of the Party. But I'm working on it! The second thing that is often misunderstood is the difference between legalising and decriminalising. I want to be clear: to sell, smuggle, borrow, manufacture and so on should remain illegal. Anyone who, while under its influence, steals, abuses, destroys something or, for that matter, drives a car, of course, commits a criminal act. Nor is it about making drugs legal; it is not legalisation that I am talking about. Decriminalisation of own use is about reducing injuries. It is a question of social policy. It is against the dealers, smugglers and manufacturers that police efforts should be directed. That is where justice policy should come in. Of course, we should continue to prioritise prevention so that people choose not to try or use drugs. The problem is that the teenager who today chooses to test some form of drugs and then goes there is seen as a criminal. Neither the curious nor the perhaps rebellious teenager nor the one with fragile mental health who self - medication can help to be treated as a criminal. Rather, the effect is exactly the opposite. The teenager is labeled a criminal and gets a dot in a register, which makes everything from looking for a job to finding housing more difficult. Some jobs simply cannot be obtained if you have a dot in the register. The fragile person who loses his support resorts to the help that exists, which unfortunately is precisely drugs. I am convinced that there is another and better way to go. Madam President, I would like We Liberals know that for those who have developed addiction, there must be efforts that do not require total freedom from drugs. Sprinkler exchange is an important effort, and more needle exchange is needed, but it is all about so much more. Getting out of addiction is a long process, and the support needs to be there all the time, albeit in different forms. For some dependants, supportive measures such as a roof over the head, food in the stomach, and clean clothing on the body are the first step toward a life without drugs, while others need other support to deal with a completely different problem first. Still others do not really have a problem with addiction, and that is not the way to deal with it. We Liberals also think that the main responsibility for addiction care should be transferred to health care because it is actually quite stigmatising to seek care today. 中 Go to the soc and have a completely different sound than that to the doctor. Support and help are especially important for children. Yet, it is rare to talk to people who have developed an addiction to their role as parents or children for that matter. For those who have grown up in a family where someone is dependent, the risk is seven times higher to develop an addiction yourself. Today it is estimated that at least 60 000 children in Sweden have one or two parents with serious substance abuse problems. Besides the risk of developing an addiction yourself, suicide, accidents, or violence are three times the death rate for peers who grow up without abuse in the family. These kids need support. It can be a matter of conversation – someone to talk to simply – or someone simply being there to help with their homework. Even for other relatives there needs to be somewhere to turn, somewhere to get support and help. It is not only the individual who is affected by a risk use or addiction, but also the environment – family, friends and colleagues. They need support and help. In addition, all the evidence we have shows that inclusion of the environment also increases the opportunities for the efforts we make to actually succeed. In the book We Buried Our Children, we meet 33 desperate mothers whose children have died a drug - related death. In common to almost everyone with children who were of age when they developed an addiction is that they have felt excluded, powerless and helpless. They have not been able to help their children because, as an adult, they are responsible for their own actions and lives. At the same time, you never ever stop being anyone's child. And you never ever stop being a parent. I have pushed, and will continue to push, the issue of decriminalisation internally in my party. It is my opinion but not the party – yet. What the Liberals say, on the other hand, with a strong, united voice, is that Swedish drugs policy does not work. For 30 years it has been forbidden to use drugs in Sweden, but nevertheless neither drugs nor the number of people using them are decreasing. We fail with the most vulnerable. They're dying. We also fail with the others, those we think we are helping, by withdrawing the efforts that actually work and treating them as criminals. The resources in the field of drugs go to the police and the judiciary, which in fact often spoils, rather than to care and support that helps. Sweden should have an addiction treatment that is at the forefront, which is humane and gives results. Zero vision should be about zero drug-related suffering and zero drug-related death. It is time to exchange punishment and death for care and support.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-749	Madam President, I would like I will also begin by waving a piece of wood that what I am about to say is my own views. We generally have no problem considering over-consumption of alcohol, drugs, gambling, yes, even sex and calories, as morbid behaviours to which society is expected to react with care and assistance– not with trial. But people who smoke hashish or inject drugs are threatened by prison. I mean and believe that it is not justifiable to value a certain type of abuse as a criminal act, while other varieties of abuse are privileged as a disease state. This year, Swedish drugs policy is 30 years old. It was in 1988 that not only possession but also the use of drugs were criminalized. Five years later, the maximum sentence for their own use was increased to six months in prison. This gave the police the power to test drug users who could be suspected of having a drug influence. Of course, the idea of the penalty was not to stigmatise or criminalise people suffering from addiction. The aim was to send clear signals that drugs are not tolerated in Swedish society. The only problem was that these signals were not understood as the legislator had intended. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's cause of death register, over 900 drug-related deaths were recorded in 2015. I think that's the latest statistics. This compares with the number of road deaths in the same year, which was 260. This week we received the latest statistics for 2017 on road deaths – the number was 254. There's a difference. Madam President, I would like Drug dealers aren't high in my world either. Squeeze on other people's drug addiction isn't something the state should look between its fingers with. But that said, drug abuse is a disease and should be regarded as one. Therefore, those who are trapped in abuse should not be punished for either possession or consumption. This year, Swedish drugs policy is 30 years old. The Swedish drug policy vision of a drug-free society is beautiful, indeed, but it has little to do with reality. That is precisely why, Madam President, the Swedish drugs policy must be reconsidered.
i-3aaa92e30fd9efe8-756	Madam President, I would like When I saw that there was an opportunity to speak in a social policy debate, I could not keep from doing so. In fact, this time I have a motion which is included in the other motions and which is rejected by the committee with a strong frenzy. It's about farm sales. Madam President, I would like This is exciting. I can go to Norrtälje and sit on the ferry to Åland and shop, but I can't go to Norrtälje and visit some of the microbreweries to eat and try and maybe also, if I think it tastes good, get to buy something with me before I leave. We say yes to ferry sales and cherish it because it is about jobs and our habit. But many here say no to farm sales out of habit and out of fear. Actually, this is about a new era. People are looking for opportunities to buy local produce and farms that offer cheese, food, meat and other things but also good drinks. When it comes to the various microbreweries or farms that produce such things, few believe that there will be large busloads of people who go there to shop. People travel in busloads to Germany to shop, or possibly with the Finnish and Åland boats, but not to microbreweries in Norrtälje or on Ekerö or elsewhere. Norway and Finland have made it possible to combine the retail monopoly with farm sales. As in Finland, Norway has now opened up to a higher percentage than before, and no problems have been experienced. The social policy part of the fact that these small operators, who are excluded from Systembolaget because they are not so large, are allowed to sell their products does not have to be a problem. The small farms that give the opportunity to really experience a whole with both food and drink want some to stop. I want to develop them, and I think it is good that a step has been taken along the way. I could well imagine a trial, because the power of habit is great and the sense of fear here too is something that governs – the fear of ingenuity and the opportunity to develop jobs, businesses and experiences in rural areas. I think we should support this approach, and I welcome the fact that the committee is now taking a small step in this direction. I shall be happy to vote in favour of the committee's line in this part. I would also have liked to have voted in favour of my motion, but I choose to go for what can gather a majority.
