i-0811e77887f655c3-0	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to Birgitta Ohlsson for today two very relevant and time-bound interpellations! The first is that she has asked me in what way I intend to influence, demand and support that the current government conducts free democratic elections in Zimbabwe in 2018 and that these take place with internationally recognised election monitoring under open supervision. Sweden has a long and close relationship with the Zimbabwean people. We are engaged in a long-term and broad dialogue with Zimbabwe and have long been clear about democracy, the principles of the rule of law and the responsibility of the Zimbabwean State to protect the human rights of its citizens. This is also a prerequisite for further development and the international community's commitment to Zimbabwe. The Constitution adopted in Zimbabwe in 2013 is a good basis, but implementation has so far failed. This is also highlighted in the report published last year by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Zimbabwe. In a number of public appearances, President Mnangagwa and representatives of the government have clearly expressed the will for political and economic reform, well in line with the wide-ranging need for reform that we and many others have been pointing out for a long time. The President has also highlighted the Constitution and the rule of law as the cornerstones for the conduct of credible, free and fair elections in 2018. We will follow closely whether these statements are translated into action. Last April, the government decided on a new five-year strategy for development cooperation with Zimbabwe. The strategy is designed to enable Sida to quickly rethink efforts and redistribute resources in the event that the political situation changes. Sweden's development cooperation with Zimbabwe is channelled through multilateral organisations, such as UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF, and civil society organisations, and we do not have direct cooperation with the Zimbabwean Government. In the event of positive political developments, we can consider gradually increasing cooperation with state actors where it is assessed effectively and strategically with a view to strengthening institutional capacity and greater democratic transparency as well as contributing to effective government management. One of the three priorities of the strategy is support for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and gender equality. The holding of free and fair elections is a central part of it, a message that our embassy in Harare has repeatedly brought forward, while monitoring developments in the country closely. In terms of direct support for the electoral process, which Birgitta Ohlsson has asked about, we contribute to the Zimbabwe Election Support Network, a local NGO that works with election support, election observation, election training, research and opinion formation for election participation. We also support a youth organisation called Youth Empowerment and Transformation Trust in order to increase young people's participation in the election process. We also support the women's organisation Women's Coalition of Zimbabwe, among other things, in their efforts to increase women's participation in governance and electoral processes. In addition to these specific efforts, Sweden supports a number of Zimbabwean human rights organisations working with human rights monitoring and protection in Zimbabwe. Madam President, I would like As an EU Member State, we are also contributing through the European Development Fund to UNDP's projects on capacity building for the Zimbabwean Election Commission, Zimbabwe's Electoral Commission. The EU is ready and committed to sending election observers to the forthcoming elections. However, an EU election observation has so far not been welcomed by Zimbabwe. The EU is currently pronouncing with the new government in Zimbabwe whether this position may change. Whether or not an EU election observation may be up to date, the EU will work closely with regional actors and election observers, such as the SADC and the AU, to promote free and fair elections in Zimbabwe.
i-0811e77887f655c3-9	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his answer to the question of free democratic elections in Zimbabwe. I think that the answer in many ways is both forward-looking and constructive, and I also share the view that Zimbabwe's current state of affairs does not open up for direct bilateral aid. We need to know more about what's going to happen. I just want to briefly recapitulate what has happened in Zimbabwe in recent months. In November, the country's dictator Robert Mugabe left the presidency after 37 years. Then it should be remembered that the Zimbabweans, who were a oppressed people for many decades before under the white apartheid system, are now really living in a situation where one thinks about what opportunities will be opened up. It should also be remembered that the repression that has been going on in Zimbabwe for almost four decades was not just about political oppositionists being flogged, tortured, murdered and thrown into prison. It is also not just about the fact that the opposition has been dismantled or that farmers have been driven out of the country, but it is also about a country that was Africa's cornshed but whose economy has been driven to the bottom under Mugabe's next n four decades in power. It should also be remembered that there are many bleeding wounds in Zimbabwe that will take a long time to heal. There are many mass graves that will need to be opened, and one will have to discuss not least the mass murders that took place during Operation Gukurahundi in the early 1980s, when 20,000 people belonging to a kind of opposition were executed. That is the background when we now see a new Zimbabwe with a new leader, which we shall remember, however, is in the hands of the military. It is not that Emmerson Mnangagwa has won power in a free, democratic and transparent election. Perhaps he will do so in the future, but then there must also be a free, transparent and democratic election. We'll remember that Emmerson Mnangagwa, the new president, in many ways has as much blood on his hands as Robert Mugabe. He has participated in the violence against the opposition in the same way in the last ten years and also has great guilt in the mass graves of the 1980s. It is against this background that we are going to discuss the future of Zimbabwe. Now there may be a scenario, a kind of open possibility or window of opportunity that is usually said in English, but it is also a window that is quickly at risk of being closed. Of course, we should applaud the good that the new President has highlighted, that is, more and more financial transparency. After all, many Zimbabweans are starving and have lived in absolut conditions for a long time. Nevertheless, it is very important to remember that Mr Mnangagwa has the same gloomy dictatorial past as Mr Mugabe, and he has so far not been clear, I think, by saying that democracy is the country's way forward. That is what must be our starting point when we are now discussing a future Zimbabwe and what is going to happen. Then it is very important that we make demands. I think it is a good thing that the European Union is sounding the ground for election observers. In the past, Mugabe has allowed election observers, but then it has been from the dictatorship's cattle, to quote a former Swedish prime minister – countries that have not been democracies and thus have not been on the right side. I therefore wonder what more concrete demands the EU will be making in addition to the question of whether it might be possible to send election observers. What will be the demands for Zimbabwe in exchange for more transparency, more trade and more aid?
i-0811e77887f655c3-20	Madam President, I would like Our ambassador and I sat as late as yesterday discussing the situation. The question is very important to us. It is also an opportunity for us because Sweden has a long and close relationship with the Zimbabwean people. The ambassador stressed that what has happened is more of a change of throne than a change of power. You have to be clear about that. It's a lot about how Mnangagwa actually lives up to his ambitions and promises. Of course, we have hopes that this will be the beginning of a new road for Zimbabwe. There have been so many years of economic and political mismanagement, and relations with the entire international community have been extremely strained. Sweden already suspended direct state-to-state cooperation in 2001. Sweden has subsequently worked primarily with UN funds and programmes as well as with civil society actors. However, there is a broad representation of Swedish civil society organisations which have played a very important role in the implementation of development cooperation. Sweden has implemented restrictive measures with sanctions against it since 2002. It is another step in making demands and in ensuring that we speak out against things that are totally unacceptable. We have tried to encourage reforms through both dialogue and targeted efforts, but improvements have been far from sufficient. As Birgitta Ohlsson also points out, the daily lives of the Zimbabwean people have been very difficult with a shrinking economy and the lack of political and economic reforms. We want to promote more democratic and efficient institutions at all levels, at local, regional and central level in the country. The new President has described his goals to Zimbabwe. There he focuses on increased employment, democratic elections and renewed relations. That is why it is now important that they are translated into concrete reform work. That is also what the European Union can do. The EU can say that it wants to see the President take steps in the right direction, and the EU will act in an in-depth dialogue, which it is now possible to have with Zimbabwe. It is not least important for them to handle the large loans. It will also be the biggest economic challenge. It must be a commitment with the international financial institutions, and Zimbabwe's reform programme must be given clear timeframes and a form based on the principles of the rule of law. Ultimately, it is a question of the political will being translated into the necessary reforms and the existence of an open social climate. These are the things that I believe the EU dialogue with Zimbabwe will primarily be about.
i-0811e77887f655c3-25	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the continuation of his reply. The key is that we must make extremely clear demands against the new Zimbabwean Government and President Mnangagwa. The clearest demand and starting point must be that democracy is always a prerequisite for entering the global heat seriously. But there must also be clear promises to the country. If free, democratic and fair elections are conducted properly with massive electoral monitoring by major global institutions, the EU and others, in an open way, promises must also be made that sanctions will be lifted, free trade agreements will be opened and aid will be provided as support. The carrot must be made that clear, more for more, that is, the more democracy and human rights, the more support in terms of trade and the way forward for the country. It is important to highlight that part in a sharp and good way. I also share the view that until we see a real change, cooperation will continue to take place through the UN agencies on the ground and through the various civil society actors. There is an extremely important aspect to creating the conditions for free, transparent and democratic elections, namely the fact that dictatorship, repression and poverty have led to a huge number of millions of Zimbabweans having been forced to leave the country. Many people work in the mines of South Africa in absolutly poor conditions. Many have gone to countries around the region. Mr Mnangagwa has clearly said that Zimbabwe will not give these people living abroad the opportunity to vote. It's a component to be highlighted. As I said, this is not about a few thousand people, but about many people who, because of Mugabe's dictatorship, have not been able to stay. Some of the democracy activists have received asylum in our own country, in Sweden. It is an important element in the conduct of free democratic elections that the citizens of the country, including those who have fled the country recently or in recent years, are given the chance to exercise their democratic rights. There's something I'd like to bring.
i-0811e77887f655c3-30	Madam President, I would like I think we have a common understanding of how to deal with this issue and how we should deal with Zimbabwe right now and in the future. First of all, it must consist of establishing an open and straightforward dialogue, which also means clearly clarifying how we see a way forward for Zimbabwe. An open and democratic society is the best guarantee that Zimbabwe will also achieve economic and social success and bring order to a society that has been in total decay for such a long time. As early as Monday, the foreign ministers of the European Union will be discussing this issue. There are proposed Council conclusions on this. There are great hopes and expectations for Zimbabwe. We look forward to a full return to a society with the principles of the rule of law, a new constitution and, of course, free and democratic elections – allowing a period of political and economic reform ahead. We will engage constructively and ensure that there is a political dialogue. They are based on our platform of respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. We will coordinate with African and international partners. Sweden is the third largest bilateral donor to Zimbabwe. The Embassy has also been open during these years. This also means that there is trust in Sweden and a good base to work from outside. There are hopes that we will be able to contribute in different ways from Sweden. We will. It can sometimes mean contributing knowledge and expertise, such as teaching civil society organisations and others how to act in a new reality in Zimbabwe. Of course, I agree that political and economic reforms go hand in hand. It begins with Zimbabwe being able to prove that a choice can be made. It must be done as quickly as possible and hopefully with election observers from the EU and from the international community.
i-0811e77887f655c3-35	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the debate. I conclude a little with the link to the EU and the Foreign Ministers' meeting at the beginning of next week – on Monday. I have seen in documents the points made on Zimbabwe, and I agree with many of these points in many respects. However, I know from experience from other countries that are in a hopefully positive transition that there are different views among EU countries on how quickly the work should go. Many countries put, to be frank, money first and look at their own companies' opportunities and think that human rights can take a long time before too heavy demands are made. Other countries have a history, such as Sweden and the United Kingdom, of being clear that democracy is not negotiable but should be there. It is important that Sweden, together with close allies in the European Union, who have stood up for freedom and democracy, clearly adhere to this. We should not only welcome a certain degree of economic transparency in which Mr Mnangagwa has released some white farmers, which is right and proper, but also greater structural reforms in which economic freedom must go hand in hand with human rights and political and civil rights. We should remember that Zimbabwe's freedom status is still lower than that of all neighbouring countries in the region. It is one of the countries at the bottom of all the global lists, and we must change that.
i-0811e77887f655c3-40	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birgitta Ohlsson, for the opportunity to discuss! The hopes that we have for a completely new leadership in Zimbabwe and the fears that we have that it will turn out that it is not prepared for the reforms that we consider absolutely necessary, we have for the benefit of the Zimbabwean people. Zimbabwe has, in fact, been a great disappointment. It is a country with enormous potential and good conditions that has completely misappropriated both its natural resources and its opportunities, as we have seen in recent years under Mugabe's leadership. I believe that we fully agree that Sweden should continue to be the country that is pushing for this to be done on the basis of respect for democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law. We have written 135 alarm reports on this theme and are one of the few countries that, both in the EU and in the UN, always claim it as a starting point. I can promise Birgitta Ohlsson that we will do so in this case as well. We hope that we will be able to follow credible, free and fair elections in Zimbabwe this year. We will contribute all the knowledge and experience we have to push this forward, and we hope that this will be done under internationally recognised electoral supervision.
i-0811e77887f655c3-45	Madam President, I would like Birgitta Ohlsson has asked me whether I believe that since 2014 Cuba has been moving towards more democracy and greater respect for human rights or less and whether its development is causing me to work towards changes in cooperation with the European Union. The EU decided in February 2014 to open negotiations with Cuba on an agreement on political dialogue and cooperation. The negotiations were concluded in March 2016, when the Agreement was initialled. The Council decided to sign the agreement on 6 December last year, and this took place on 12 December. The agreement was then approved by the European Parliament with 567 votes against 65 – 31 abstentions on 5 July. The Agreement entered into force provisionally on 1 November. The agreement with Cuba is far less ambitious than, for example, the agreements on, among other things, free trade that the EU has with most other countries in Latin America. The aim of the EU agreement is to consolidate existing relations with Cuba. The agreement also creates an instrument that facilitates the EU's support for the reform process in the country and promotes European values and interests. A clear objective of the EU has been and continues to be to strengthen its ability to influence Cuba towards democratic development and respect for human rights and the rule of law. As in the past, the EU continues to follow closely developments in reforms and respect for human rights in the country. The human rights dialogue provided for in the agreement has already started, and during the first three dialogues several key issues for democracy and human rights have been discussed. Among other things, freedom of assembly, the space of civil society and the opportunity to participate in public dialogue, free elections, freedom of expression and media and freedom of information have been addressed. Supporting and defending a wide range of civil society organisations and actors in order to strengthen democracy and people's participation is a priority for Sweden. The government is concerned about the shrinking scope for Cuban civil society to operate. I share the view that the reform process that began a few years ago has lost momentum. The numbers of arbitrary arrests published by CCDHRN, the independent Cuban Human Rights Commission referred to by Birgitta Ohlsson, were indeed record high in the years 2014 to 2016. The final figures for 2017 have not yet been presented, but they appear to be significantly lower than the figures for 2016. Harassment and restrictions on the freedom of movement of human rights defenders are also worrying. In our restored dialogue with the Cuban Government, the human rights situation is always a central theme and so is the EU's human rights dialogue with Cuba within the framework of the new agreement. The Embassy in Havana also conducts close and active dialogue with a wide range of actors in Cuban society. The approach of the EU agreement – assistance and other sectoral cooperation with political dialogue on, inter alia, human rights and support for economic reform and trade – is similar to that found in the government's bilateral declaration of intent with Cuba. We believe that such a broad approach gives us the best opportunity to contribute to change in a positive direction. The government will continue to work for EU cooperation with Cuba to be designed in such a way that it contributes to positive development in the country and that the EU continues to make demands on Cuba in terms of democracy and human rights.
i-0811e77887f655c3-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. Perhaps it is appropriate here too to recapitulate the historical relationship of the European Union to the Communist one-party dictatorship of Cuba. We know that in 2003 diplomatic relations between the democracies of the European Union and the then dictatorship of Cuba were disrupted. This happened after the Cuban authorities had thrown 75 critics into prison as political prisoners. The years that followed were frosty relations between the European Union and Cuba, although there were individual EU countries which, for economic, purely commercial and capitalist reasons, sought closer to the regime. We see, as the Foreign Minister mentioned, that since 2014, some EU countries, together with the United States and Canada, are closest to the Government of Raúl Castros. The political dialogue agreement we are discussing is now being prepared. I think the first question to ask is what kind of Cuba we are seeing today. Well, it's a country that's backed up on the global freedom scale and is now down to only 14 points out of 100. It is a country with lower levels of freedom than Congo and Iran, for example, have, according to some measurements. It is a country where arbitrary questioning, short-term arrests and harassment of dissident opponents are commonplace. It is a country where freedom of expression, the press and association are lacking. In practice, all the media are government property. It is a country where a party, the Communist Party, is the only legal party, which in itself is a bad starting point if you want free, open and democratic elections. What I would like to highlight in my first speech is that I feel that I have not received sufficient answers to my interpellation from the Foreign Minister. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply that questions are discussed in the Human Rights Dialogue. Then one might wonder what the EU is saying and what Cuba is responding. The Cuban Communist Party has clearly stated that there is no question of reforms on its part in terms of democracy and human rights. The Cuban Government is also clear that there is no process of reform in relation to democracy and freedom. Then I wonder where one sees some sort of shift in the positive direction. The reply from the Foreign Minister also shows that it is a clear objective of the EU to influence Cuba towards democratic development. At the end, she says that, in terms of democracy and human rights, the EU continues to make demands on Cuba. However, neither the EU nor Sweden really have any precise, clear objectives in terms of democracy or make any concrete demands. Aid, trade and other things continue, no matter how many people are thrown into prison. There'll be no reprisals against the country like that. The EU agreement also notes a lack of clear, specific requirements for Cuba to improve on this front. It is an analysis that many freedom fighters and democracy activists in Cuba agree with.
i-0811e77887f655c3-66	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Birgitta Ohlsson, who initiated this highly relevant, important debate on the situation in Cuba! For many years, both the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, through our democratic aid organisations, have been working to support the people on the island who are fighting for democratic development. It is with great frustration that we see that developments in human rights and democracy are not moving in the right direction. The official picture of Cuba today is that it is opening up to the outside world and that the regime is susceptible to change. This, Madam President, is a picture that has been in the interests of the Cuban regime to convey to the outside world, and a picture that many in Europe also believe in. The Christian Democrats were clear from the outset and called for opposition forces in Cuba to be invited during the process of developing the agreement between the European Union and Cuba, and we regret that this was not the case. Instead, we see how the Cuban regime, as has been mentioned earlier, continues to engage in arbitrary arrests and abductions of people gathered to form opposition and opinion on various issues. People from regime-critical organisations are stopped and are not allowed to leave the country. As late as 26 November, the municipal elections were held in Cuba, which was counted as the starting point for the process of replacing Raúl Castro in power. All forms of opposition were banned during the elections, so Cuba continues to be a one-party state, where no free, fair elections have been held in modern times. Regim critics are still imprisoned on the island. Among other things, the democracy fighter Eduardo Cardet, who is the leader of the Christian Democratic Movement Movimiento Cristiano Liberación, has now been imprisoned for a year for expressing critical opinion of Fidel Castro in connection with his death. All of this, Madam President, shows, I believe, that the Cuban regime is not open to political change. I therefore wonder why there are no wordings in the agreement that emphasise the rights of the Cuban people and precisely the right to elect their own political representatives. What benefits do we see from an agreement that does not impose sufficiently tough demands on reform? Nevertheless, the central point of this agreement must be to stand up for those who are suffering under repression in Cuba.
i-PXdyWHtwr6GDs2kW4Z3uML	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Birgitta Ohlsson and Sofia Damm! I think there are two very important questions that we need to be busy trying to answer. The first is: Is there a shift? Do you think you see steps in the right direction? Is there something we can boast of? How should we view the situation? We know historically, and we also know that isolation did not produce any results. It didn't get any better in Cuba. So where's the shift? If one should mention something that we have seen over time, it is that the travel ban has been lifted and the legislation has been opened up to certain forms of free enterprise. There is a certain, limited access to the Internet, and the opportunities for free debate are somewhat greater than 10 – 15 years ago. This is an attempt to answer very seriously and look for something that is positive, and then this can be mentioned. At the same time, it is quite right that both Sofia Damm and Birgitta Ohlsson have said: we have seen terrible examples of how to imprison young people who have only tried to make their voices heard. Parents don't know where they are or what's going to happen to them. Freedom fighters have also suffered a great deal. So what do we do? What do we think is the way forward? The government obviously believes that Sweden should have a dialogue with representatives of the Cuban Government, but the most important support we give is to be a place to come and meet representatives of civil society organisations and opposition and all those who are fighting for a different Cuba. In fact, there is a great deal of interest here. I know that from our representatives from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs who have been to Cuba. Seminars on freedom of expression and the principles of democracy are of the greatest interest. So for their sake, it is also important that we show that we are continuing the dialogue. There is no need to have exaggerated perceptions of how quickly this will go. But what is the alternative? The agreement is very general and tells us that we are now going to establish a dialogue in order to be able to speak directly with each other and put forward precisely these views. Harassments and restrictions on the freedom of movement of human rights defenders in Cuba are among the most worrying of recent times. It is very important that, although it will take time, we insist on being there for them and that we have a dialogue and express our views to the Cuban Government. We have had representatives of civil society and opposition representatives with us during the negotiations. There is a human rights clause and the agreement recognises the role of civil society in its implementation. It is also said that the parties will take steps to support greater participation of civil society. The writings are important, but what we fill the agreement with in the future is the most important thing. Now we have a platform and can act together and make common demands.
i-0811e77887f655c3-83	Madam President, I would like I agree when the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that it is absolutely important to have a dialogue with all kinds of parties in a country. But one might ask whether there are conditions for a dialogue that will lead to something, when one of the biggest counterparts who will sign the agreement is a Communist one-party dictatorship, which does not seem to show any intention of becoming anything else. Despite promises and despite American openness and some European trivia, it has not actually been shown to be moving in the right direction either. Much of what has been mentioned before, that there has been some financial transparency in some places and greater opportunities to travel for some people, have actually been rolled back. It was a kind of wave that came, which was positive and which many of us applauded. Today, however, it is extremely difficult for the section of the population that disagrees with the views of the Communist one-party state. They are even more vulnerable in many places. I think one issue is very important to raise. They work in a much smarter way than before on the part of the Communist one-party dictatorship, perhaps in order to get some more beautiful statistics on paper in some places. I am thinking a lot about the strategies of the Cuban secret services – how to attack oppositionists now compared to before. It has a new way of working against different human rights defenders. Instead of arresting them when they have begun to demonstrate, the secret services have been deployed directly at the people's house when they, for example, are going to church or to their work. This means that many do not even go out, and then it is clear that the number of arrests goes down. People don't even leave their houses because they know they're walking right into the police's arms. This dumps a lot, so I think you have to take the development we see on many fronts with a pinch of salt. There is another question which I think must be asked, not least given that Sweden as a nation has a history of, in a sad and reprehensible way, giving aid money to one-party dictatorships, whether they are socialist or communist or have other colours. We have seen how we have pumped aid into countries such as Vietnam and Laos for decades, but it has not become much more free for the people of these countries. It is a lesson we have learned, and then we should not open up to another country in which citizens live in the same closed and oppressive system. I believe, as in the debate on Zimbabwe before, that democracy itself is a prerequisite for a country to enter into a global heat and enjoy privileges that can lead to more openness, trade and more. Here we do not even see intentions to go in the right direction, and that is very sad. I think we need to take this very seriously. As long as we do not see any change, at least we on the Liberal side are not prepared to say yes to an agreement where there is no change. We think it would be very counterproductive. Federica Mogherini has visited Cuba on three occasions during this time. She often points out that there are differences of opinion. Absolutely, but she does not come up with much more than that when it comes to clarity about democracy and human rights. It is regrettable that in her recent move when she has been there she has said that she does not like the new American policy against the country – it can really have its views on – but has not had any comments on the flawed Cuban policy in terms of democracy and human rights. We run the risk of the EU taking too flat a stance here.
i-0811e77887f655c3-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I appreciate that the Foreign Minister is trying to lift the little sparkles of light that the government sees in Cuba. It's important. We Christian Democrats also welcome steps taken to strengthen the dialogue between Cuba and the EU and initiatives that increase respect for human rights and an independent civil society. However, we do not believe that these steps should be taken within the framework of the Cuban regime's definition of what is human rights or what is a civil society. When the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, recently visited Havana, I felt that it slightly manifested the EU's abstinence towards the Cuban regime. It's almost like we bought their definition. Our hope is, of course, that the changes in Cuba and economic development will benefit the Cuban population and that this will lead to political change. But we do not see that there is anything in the agreement that guarantees this, but instead the EU and Sweden are in danger of helping to keep a regime under the arms that oppresses its people and dissidents. We do not want Sweden to contribute to this. I would therefore like to end by asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs: when it comes to ratifying the agreement, will the government let the Parliament have its say? If we are given that opportunity, we Christian Democrats will find it very difficult to press the 'yes' button, because we do not think this agreement is good enough.
i-0811e77887f655c3-96	Madam President, I would like I will try to explain how the agreement has come about and what is the basis for it. There is continuity in the objectives of the European foreign policy line towards Cuba, and the aim remains to contribute to progress towards greater respect for human rights, political pluralism and economic reform. It is important to make use of the openings that are given and also to reach a wide range of actors that can be involved in influencing development. Not even a dictatorship or a one-party state like Zimbabwe exists forever. You can never know when the change will come. It is incredibly important to maintain dialogue and to be a support for all those who are oppositional. This establishes this dialogue – we say that we are interested in having a dialogue. The aim of the EU agreement is to consolidate existing relations with Cuba. In 2014, when negotiations started, the joint position that existed had already played its part. By then, several EU Member States had already entered into bilateral cooperation and concluded their own agreements with the country. Then it was important to unite us, because we will be stronger if we speak with one voice. We are not going to contribute a lot of money to Cuba or help the regime, but we are there to promote our values as well. That is the most important thing we can do at this point. I don't know what the alternative is. Is it closing again, not having a dialogue and not trying to influence the regime? We are not naive, but we can see that this is extremely problematic. Then we can speak out, and we can do so on the basis of a common European position and line. That is a broad grant in the agreement. It does not go down at a detailed level at all, but it says that we should maintain the dialogue and speak on the basis of our values, and we should also ensure that civil society actors and others help us. Political dialogue, also on human rights issues, provides a political influence. Economic reform and trade provide a different opportunity for influence. Cooperation in the broad sense provides an opportunity to reach change actors at several different levels of society that can be supported in different ways. Therefore, civil society is at the heart of this government's priorities.
i-0811e77887f655c3-102	Madam President, I would like There is probably no one in this House who rejects dialogue. But the question must always be asked: dialogue on whose terms? This has, of course, been a process that has been very much about dialogue precisely on the basis of the conditions of the Cuban dictatorship. We should remember that the Cuban democracy movement was never involved in the negotiations on the agreement, nor was it allowed to be a strong reference party. No independent Cuban journalists were allowed to attend press conferences and more. The process was very closed. One might ask: on whose terms and in what way has the dialogue taken place? In much it is from one of the world's most compact dictatorships, which also happens to be of a communist nature. I think this should be emphasised. We can also see what has happened in recent years. Many of the most prominent human rights organisations have disappeared from the country when almost all leading people have been forced to go into exile, such as Cubalex and Hablemos Press. Not least, many of the strong and courageous women who led Damas de Blanco and their various allies have left the country. Many of those who could have been changing and positive forces for women's freedom, democracy and human rights are no longer there. For the Communist dictatorship it has been a win-win situation in a lot. The government has won two major agreements: one with the EU that is coming now, and the other with the United States has previously. Individual countries are looking closer, but they have not had to shake their own power or let democratic voices say theirs freely, which makes me very concerned. This means that we Liberals believe that this agreement will not create a stronger democratic relationship with Cuba.
i-RZTSbpSkwJzGvPDLzrvjYQ	Madam President, I would like Thanks to both Birgitta Ohlsson and Sofia Damm! As things stand today, Cuba is facing a shift. Obamas's extended hand has been partially withdrawn by the Trump administration, which has a completely new Cuba policy. Venezuela, which has been an ally, is in deep crisis, and the wind has also turned around in several other Latin American countries, where Cuba has previously received some support. In April this year, Castroera will also end. Perhaps the European Union could take on a new role in this particular situation, if we use it properly. Otherwise, there are other forces and other actors who are absolutely ready to do so. In this way, the timing of this agreement is fortunate. It is clear that we are following developments very closely and with great concern for the very reasons that Birgitta and Sofia have read out here. One should not go into this with any naivety, but I have not heard what the alternative would be. We believe that dialogue and transparency must be established, in which we can speak directly to each other and also make demands. But we must implement it in the way that we engage with civil society organisations, with those who are opposition and advocate free media, free debate and, in fact, are the progressive forces in the country. You have to, so if I see it, be able to do both. This is the position of this government. Thank you for the debate.
i-0811e77887f655c3-110	Madam President, I would like Jessica Polfjärd has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment what new measures the Minister intends to take to combat age discrimination in the labour market. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The objective of the government's anti-discrimination policy is a society free of discrimination. Sweden should be a country where all people have access to equal rights and opportunities. A strong protection against age discrimination is an expression of a society that safeguards the equal value of all people and gives everyone the opportunity to develop according to their individual characteristics and conditions and according to their own ability. The government has taken a number of measures in the area of discrimination during its term of office. This includes strengthening the provisions on active measures, which now include all the grounds of the Non-Discrimination Act, including age. The Discrimination Ombudsman, DO, supervises compliance with the Discrimination Act and thus plays a central role in the work against discrimination. DO was permanently added to SEK 10 million from 2016 and will receive an additional SEK 10 million from this year in order to expand its supervision of the Discrimination Act.
i-0811e77887f655c3-116	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Democracy for his answer. Yes, of course, no one wants discrimination to occur in society. We are working actively to ensure that it does not occur. But we know it still does. The labour market is an example where we can see that there is discrimination on the basis of age. We know that both young and old are needed in the labour market, and we want more people to be able to work longer. For this to be achieved, we need to be aware of the possibility of changing jobs and employers in the middle of life. There must be security and a knowledge of older people's conditions. We think it is important to take advantage of older people's skills. Many older people feel pressure to leave the labour market. Often you think you should be able to give the job to a younger person. It could be true if there was a job to share, but we know that it is not the functionality of the Swedish labour market. Yet we know that there is discrimination. According to new research, age discrimination begins as early as 40 years of age. A field study sent out 6,000 fictitious job applications. The result showed that the likelihood of being contacted by an employer decreased after the age of 40. There is also a gender aspect to this. Women were even less contacted by employers. Thus, women are at risk of double discrimination in the labour market. Despite the prohibition of discrimination, women are weaker in the labour market. Then my question is: what measures does the Government think will be the most important to counteract this?
i-0811e77887f655c3-122	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Polfjärd, for the continued discussion! Yes, age discrimination is a problem that we all share. The Green Party has long wanted anyone who wants to work longer to be able to do so. Now the government and several members of the opposition have an agreement on pensions. I welcome that. I believe that this and the regulatory changes that will hopefully come into force will affect the participation of older people in the labour market. As Polfjärd described, there are studies showing that there is also discrimination against gender. Older women are particularly discriminated against. That is precisely why we need to ensure that the legislation has an effect. Land has to be built by law. That's one of my mottos. Legislation has changed in recent years. And with the special resources that we provide to the Ombudsman for Discrimination, DO will be able to exercise its supervision more forcefully. We in the government have also announced, just before the end of the year, that we will set up an investigation to look at the possibility of sanctions. This is something that many interest groups, but also employers and other parts of society, have raised. The absence of sanctions may contribute to non-compliance with the law to the extent that it should be complied with. With clear legislation and with a supervisory authority that has the strength to do so, I hope that we will take clear steps towards age discrimination.
i-0811e77887f655c3-127	Madam President, I would like Yes, we know that many times discrimination is not based on facts but on prejudice and untrue assumptions. This also applies to age discrimination. But we also know that we are more alert today, that we live longer and that the working life can be there for both the young and the older. There are prejudices in the form that older people would be more technology hostile and that they could not easily learn new things. We know that's wrong. In order for Sweden in the future to be a nation where growth continues to be high, more people need to work longer. Therefore, discrimination also becomes a barrier to growth. The Government mentions sanctions and the Equality Ombudsman, as the guarantor of non-discrimination in the labour market or in society. But I do not think that is the only answer. I think we need more prevention and action. I have to ask the Minister: in what way do you want to work preventively? What are the most important measures to ensure that this does not end up with the Discrimination Ombudsman, but that there actually is a labour market that is for everyone? How does the government continue to work against discrimination – not just on the responsibility of the Minister for Democracy?
i-0811e77887f655c3-131	Madam President, I would like Yes, we definitely need to work preventively. Studies show that the knowledge of the law that has been in force for a year is horrifyingly low with employers. One of the efforts we are now working intensively on is to engage in dialogue and create the conditions for education and communication about what the law actually provides, so that we do not have to lag behind with reprisals. It is a question of building up knowledge of what the law prescribes, but also of how this is profitable for our society as a whole. We need people who work longer. Those who can and want should not be hindered. Of course, I share the view that we need to take preventive action, and that is being done. But it can also bear recalling how the whole package creates the conditions. Land will be built by law. It is a matter of clear legislation and prevention based on studies that show, for example, that the knowledge is low, so that employers know what the new law means. But it is also a question of looking at whether sanctions can play a role. But all this would have been powerless if we did not also ensure that the DO authority – it is perhaps a clear case linked to the Discrimination Act – has resources. Therefore, the government has prioritised to strengthen DO strongly. We have also reinforced anti-discrimination activities across our country. Many of these activities work not only to run cases but also to inform and provide knowledge of what the law says and what effects a society free of discrimination can contribute to. What I am particularly pleased about is that there is a clear consensus among the majority in the Swedish Parliament, because we will have to be many who work with this in different ways. The Moderates are committed to this issue. And not least, we know how important employers and the Swedish business community play in the work against discrimination – it concerns all seven grounds for discrimination. Then I think we have every opportunity to ensure that Sweden becomes a country that takes clear steps towards being a country free from discrimination.
i-0811e77887f655c3-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is, of course, much that we agree on, including that this is also important for our growth and, as the Government said, for the profitability of society. We need the people who are able to work and who can work. We know that in Norway, for example, older people are called grey gold. There is one competence that we are rather poor at exploiting, namely the skills of the elderly in the labour market. To hear and read that at the age of 40 you are considered to be older, and also have fewer opportunities, is something that will not move Sweden forward. The Ombudsman for Discrimination also says that it is well known that there is age discrimination in the labour market and that there is also a rather large number of dark spots, that is to say that what is perceived as discrimination does not always come to DODO attention. I think we also need to work with attitudes and values. Although we have anti-discrimination legislation, which the Minister for Democracy does not think is sufficiently well known, I believe that there are other values in society that we need to work with. Thank you for your answer. I look forward to the Minister returning to Parliament and explaining what results have been achieved with the efforts the Government has made so far.
i-0811e77887f655c3-141	Madam President, I would like The fact that Sweden should be a country that is free from discrimination is for the government – which we often say – something that is not just words but something that we prioritise and invest in. It is in every way unprofitable to discriminate. We need to ensure that all people who want to contribute to welfare and to our society also have the opportunity to do so. There should be no obstacles such as discrimination in the way. This means that we need to be many who focus on this very point and who are prepared to take these discussions. There is a layer of bad arguments that come up when discussing the importance of people having opportunities to work even if they are older. The gray gold is a fantastic way of putting it. We have so much experience and knowledge that we need to refuel into new generations. There are tasks that require a lot of experience to be able to perform. The fact that Sweden, one of the world's best and richest countries, could not take advantage of this is an understatement without its equal. Here's what we're gonna do. We invest and invest. We feel that we can build on what we agree on in this House, which is absolutely essential, and we will continue to do so. I look forward to coming back and telling you about the effects this has had.
i-PvZTbZvA7aCec1SLvcgGDh	I would like to welcome the ministers. The questions are answered by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister H elene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister of State Heléne Fritzon. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-0811e77887f655c3-148	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Fridolin. On October 4, a teacher tried to dissuade a fight between students. One student responded by hanging himself around the teacher's neck and boxing against the neck with repeated strokes. I can no longer work because of what has happened, says the teacher. On October 27, a student screams and throws pearls in a classroom. On assignment, the student began beating, kicking, and beating the teacher. These are only two out of thirty gross and terrible stories from autumn 2017 in Malmö schools and have been told in recent weeks. It is a work environment which, unfortunately, is too common in our schools and which would not be accepted in any other workplace. But in many schools this has over the years become old cabinet food. According to the Swedish Work Environment Agency, the proportion of primary school teachers exposed to threats and violence is higher than the average for all professions.
i-5QUCfokAfczZRKeYVxDj9b	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Erik Bengtzboe! What Erik Bengtzboe describes and we can see in the reports is terrible. That is unacceptable. It must not occur at school or at any other place of work, as the Member of Parliament says. The school must have a clear routine and order in which every crime and every suspicion of a crime is reported to the police. There must be a good relationship between school and police and, where appropriate, social services. Each teacher should also know that you have a principal who will be in a position when you need to proceed with a police report. Of course, it is also necessary for the great work to be done to create a safer school environment. It is not least that there should be enough people working in school. It is difficult to pass the security mission if you are alone in your task, if you cannot cooperate with colleagues and if you know that if you send a student out in the corridor there are no adults there. This is why it is important that more – 20 000 more – have been employed in Swedish schools in recent years.
i-0811e77887f655c3-156	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Gustav Fridolin! Unfortunately, we can see from reports and recent reports from Malmö, among others, that recent developments are going in the wrong direction and not at all in the direction we would like. Our view is that teachers need clearer mandates to create order and order in the classrooms. Teachers need more training in leadership. We also need to get reviews in order to get clear feedback to the home. Is this something that Gustav Fridolin intends to proceed with during his term of office? Or are there any other concrete measures that the government intends to take?
i-0811e77887f655c3-160	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Member of Parliament. The development gives rise to a shared picture. The fact that we receive more reports is partly due to the fact that more schools now have the routine to report, which was not the case before. And that's very good. It is shown that it is serious and that it is a crime that should be reported to the police even when it happens at a school. That is the basis for accomplishing this task. More leadership training in teacher training is good. It is also something that we work with in the national school development programmes. On the other hand, I do not see it as a reasonable task to sit and write home notes, so-called order reviews, to students who are doing very well.
i-0811e77887f655c3-165	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Deputy Minister of Justice Heléne Fritzon. The Council's security report, which was released this week, shows a sustained trend, namely that insecurity is increasing in our country. In my opinion, it does so with good reason. The number of murders, rapes, gang rapes and, not least, attacks on police officers and police stations, last night, shows a nasty development in society. Despite the government's 100 proposals from the Ministry of Justice, progress is going in the wrong direction. It is not the actual number that is the problem, but probably the political content. The Swedish Democrats have not rarely criticized the government and had views that resources and powers have been insufficient, just as we have criticized the government's proposals when it comes to objective punitive measures and so on. Is the government satisfied, Heléne Fritzon? Or can you consider agreeing with the Swedish Democrats' criticism that any attempt at progress from the government has been inadequate?
i-0811e77887f655c3-169	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. The government is working intensively and vigorously to combat all the crime that we can experience in different ways. In particular, the party leader debate yesterday shows that there is also a broad consensus in the Swedish parliament about the situation in the country and how we can work together for a stronger and safer society. As I said, the government has taken a variety of measures. More police officers may be the most visible, but it is also about active law enforcement and a penalty.
i-0811e77887f655c3-172	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats were the only party to invest in training more police officers at the beginning of their term of office. So with our policy, we would have had more police today. With your policy, we've got fewer trained police officers on duty, Heléne Fritzon. In addition, the police are now subjected to warlike attacks on a historical scale. Is it not time for the military to assist the police in creating security in our streets?
i-0811e77887f655c3-174	Mr President, I would like to The government's investment in more well-trained police officers is the largest in Sweden in the last 20 years. And as I said, it is only part of an important action programme to reduce crime and increase security in Swedish society.
i-0811e77887f655c3-175	Mr President, I would like to Life's science has been on the wallpaper for quite a few years now. When I became a member of Parliament, there was great confusion in the industry if it was a industry that Sweden really wanted to invest in. Both companies and people who worked in research and development had a lot of thought about where Sweden was going on these issues. Since then, a life science coordinator has been appointed. It was done in 2015. But that assignment expires on January 31. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Research what the future holds for life science and who will be the chairman of the Government's Life Science Council.
i-Nm1J6oomCJDFgBFQPp6fJF	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for an important question! I hope it is quite clear that life science has been a priority for the government since day one. One of the things we have done is to set up a national coordinator. Now we also have a national cooperation programme for life science, where the national coordinator chairs that expert group. That mission he will continue to have in the future. However, we are now looking within the Government Office at how to arrange for a more permanent effort to promote investments in life science and ensure that we get up the number of clinical studies. During these years with a life science coordinator, investments and the number of clinical studies have increased. But we're not happy there. We want much more.
i-0811e77887f655c3-179	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear that the Government says that the Council will continue its activities. I believe that the industry very much welcomes that message. But I would also like to ask the question: how does one intend to involve healthcare more closely in clinical studies? There's still a lot to do. The industry itself is incredibly forward and wants much more. But how do you get care in this context?
i-HbuKFPVS1FjZwtMzznRt8T	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther! I share the view that health care is crucial. It must act as an engine for research, education, development and innovation. There is much going on in the cooperation programme. There is also a committee for clinical studies that was the direct result of an investigation carried out during the previous year. It consists of the industry and representatives of the major county councils and academia. The Committee has now been given new directives and we see that they will help well.
i-0811e77887f655c3-183	My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Today I have the honor of having a nice visit. A number of teachers and students are here to express their support for their colleagues who on 21 and 24 November were fired, threatened with dismissal, relocated and slandered by the venture capital company Academedia, who owns the school they were working on. The first teacher who was fired was given five minutes to submit his accessories to the school in rather degrading ways. I wonder: Is it this kind of school that we should have in Sweden? Can a profit-making school, which means that actors are really just looking to profit from our tax money, behave in this way towards teachers who have worked for many years in the Swedish school for our students and children?
i-NGAcV44kUCXDqHraoK6wJX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for the question! And thank you for the commitment that exists for Swedish school among many teachers who work in different schools in Sweden and also in many of the healthy areas that are raised for debate here! As Daniel Riazat knows, I am not allowed to comment on a current case to be brought before the courts. However, it is important to be clear with two basic principles that the government stands for. Firstly, it concerns the importance of the rules that have been built up in the Swedish labour market, not least in the public sphere, such as freedom of communication, the right to sound the alarm about maladministration and the right to stand up for a political opinion in the public debate. These rules must apply to all employees in all sectors, and not least in all types of schools. Secondly, the government – as Daniel Riazat knows – stands for there to be rules that do not run schools to profit from tax money.
i-PpxwwcZY8sS4nnYxSJHdDH	Thank you, Minister of Education. We are very pleased that the government has finally listened to the Left Party when it comes to the prize hunt in Swedish school and welfare. Even if you can't interfere in even the kild a case, I would like you to express clearly to Göran, Magnus, the students and the others within the National Association of Teachers who have committed themselves that it is simply unacceptable that staff, who have worked for many years to give all students the right to equal knowledge, are treated in this way by greedy venture capitalists.
i-ByzupS2qUt6scngS6syoKq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Daniel Riazat! I think I was quite clear about the principles that the government stands for. I must not speak in such a way that it can affect the legal sphere. Nor would it help the teachers in question. On the contrary, there is a danger that there will be a discussion, not about what the teachers have been through and with which they have gone to court and about which they are discussing with their employer, but rather about what the Minister has said in this House. But our principles are clear, and they are also reflected in the bill that we are presenting to Parliament, for example on extended freedom of communication.
i-0811e77887f655c3-197	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke. On Instagram, the Minister has declared that the government agrees that Sweden should sign the declaration for a ban on nuclear weapons. This would mean that the government does not care about an inquiry into how a signing affects Swedish security. In the same speech, the Government writes that the matter must unfortunately be decided in the Riksdag. What does the Minister for Democracy mean by the fact that the Swedish parliament and democratic decision-making are seen as a problem? Would the Government rather that this was decided in violation of a majority in the Riksdag?
i-0811e77887f655c3-200	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It feels a little awkward to talk about my Instagram account right here. But it can be read. If you read my speech carefully, I think you can see that, in connection with the ILO 169, it was last mentioned that ratification of the Convention would be decided by a majority decision in the Swedish Parliament. But with regard to the Nuclear Weapons Convention, it is clear what the Green Party wants. I refer to the debate article by Isabella Lövin, the spokesperson of the Green Party, wrote in Dagens Nyheter.
i-0811e77887f655c3-203	Mr President, I would like to Now the minister is a minister. What is written on Instagram is spread on social media. It is a fact that it says: The government has clearly declared that we want to sign, but its worse it is the parliament and not the government that has to take decisions, and that means a majority of the members of the parliament... I do not know how to interpret it other than that it is strange that the Minister for Democracy thinks it is a problem that the Swedish Parliament makes decisions. Is that a liability? Does the Minister not think that Parliament should make decisions on important security policy issues? Apparently, a minority government is going to do that.
i-0811e77887f655c3-205	Mr President, I would like to I think exactly the opposite. It is important that the Swedish Parliament takes decisions and that there is a strong majority behind the decisions taken.
i-0811e77887f655c3-207	Mr President, I would like to Every parent who leaves their child at school wants it to feel very safe and that it learns a lot. Therefore, there is no more important promise that we politicians can make than to ensure that every teacher has the chance to equip the students with as much knowledge as possible. In addition, the child must feel the security needed to gain individual freedom and power over his or her own life. I think some parents are thinking right now about whether we really live up to that promise. PISA and Timss show that the results of the alliance reforms increased. At the same time, we see that the percentage not eligible for upper secondary school studies is increasing again. It is difficult to recruit teachers and there are quite a lot of problems with order in many schools. Instead, the government hunts schools that work with knowledge focus and with order and order. The government is strongly committed to this, but few proposals are made to strengthen order, order and knowledge. What does the Minister of Education propose to do? What is his response to the parents who are worried today?
i-WEQRSMwqkqUhuAkcpHoonu	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the question! In order for the right to be right, I would like to say that the percentage of those who leave comprehensive school for upper secondary school is increasing, both among those who have Swedish background as expressed in the statistics and among those who are newly arrived as expressed in the statistics. There are also more qualified teachers in the Swedish school system than we have ever had. But the number of children has continued to increase and is increasing even more strongly. We don't hunt any school, but we want clear rules for all free schools. The rules are supposed to guarantee that the tax money that you and I are spending goes to the quality of the students. With regard to concrete proposals that lead to order and order, we employ more people so that the mission of security will be easier to carry out. You have stronger support for it. In recent years 20 000 more have been employed in Swedish schools. We ensure that there are national school development programmes that provide support in, for example, the work with leadership. We relieve teachers and principals of some administrative tasks so that they can focus on the core mission: good teaching and leadership in teaching.
i-0811e77887f655c3-213	Mr President, I would like to What's done is already done, is the Minister of Education's announcement. He's very pleased with the situation. I think many parents would like a different answer. They would probably like to have three concrete proposals from the Minister of Education on how to ensure that teaching gives more knowledge to each student, how to ensure that more people are eligible for upper secondary school, how to make sure that more people love to be teachers and apply to the teaching profession and how to make sure that more people feel safe in Swedish schools. There is no news from the government, and I find that very worrying.
i-0811e77887f655c3-215	Mr President, I would like to Three concrete messages: A billion-dollar investment of 6 billion is now being rolled out with a strong weighting against the schools where students have the toughest conditions. This means that the state takes a much greater responsibility for school funding. This is an important and welcome step. We do a follow-up of regulations so that all principals receive support in the work on regulations. We use the tools that we know work at some of the schools in Sweden that are the best at creating security and peace of mind both in Swedish and in international comparisons. And we will make efforts for teachers' work environment.
i-0811e77887f655c3-218	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon. In order for us in Sweden to have a legally secure and credible migration policy, we cannot, over time, have regulations that differ considerably from those in the rest of Europe. At the same time, migration policy must clearly distinguish between children and adults. If we are to do so, we must have a credible age assessment process based on evidence, which has confidence among the population, based on an overall assessment and which, in difficult cases, is based on a medical assessment. In light of this, I wonder how the Minister views the recent criticism of age assessments of unaccompanied minors.
i-0811e77887f655c3-220	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for a very topical question these days! Age assessments are part of the important asylum procedure. It is on the individual to make his or her identity and age likely. That's why the government gave a mandate to the National Board of Forensic Medicine over a year and a half ago to design a system of medical age assessments. The government is clear that this should be based on research and proven experience and that it should be a legally secure system. As you know, the government does not choose the methods, it is done by the profession. I am not bothered by the current debate and criticism, so to speak, in the sense that I always welcome a debate. It is quite common in medicine and healthcare.
i-0811e77887f655c3-223	Mr President, I would like to I note that I agree with both the Government and the Government. At the same time, it is an interesting and important question how the Government intends to act against the criticism that has, among other things, come against the National Board of Forensics.
i-0811e77887f655c3-224	Mr President, I would like to There are two clear missions. One is a knowledge assignment to the National Board of Health and Welfare regarding the method selection, and one should return in May. The second is what was presented this morning. The National Board of Forensic Medicine has itself produced a quality measurement, which shows a very high degree of consistency in the method. It is, according to the work's own description, about 90 percent. The National Board of Forensic Medicine notes that it is therefore not intended to change the methods of medical age assessment.
i-0811e77887f655c3-227	Mr President, I would like to Hey, students! 0- in student loans? Date a sugar daddy! This is how it was written on a billboard that last autumn met the students at various campuses in Sweden. On the sign there were also two only breasts. In bus courses and in other public places, we are greeted by advertising where gender stereotype roles are kept alive and reinforced. Overorder and subordination are reflected through men and women of different ages and positions and they are different easily dressed. However, making sexist advertising is perfectly legal in Sweden. The current system of self-remediation through the industry-owned advertising ombudsman is not sufficient. Sexist advertising has not diminished in scope. The Green Party has for a long time been pushing for legislation and severe penalties against sexist advertising in the public sphere. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Culture and Democracy: what is the government doing to overcome sexist advertising?
i-0811e77887f655c3-230	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. In December, we commissioned DO to investigate the extent and extent of the problem of sexist advertising, to come back to us and report how self-regulation in the industry has worked. We have a viable advertising industry that has a lot to do. There is also a debate about what they are doing and how they are doing it. Do we want to be right or do we want change? I want change, and I know that self-regulation is a way of bringing about change. With the evidence we get, we put additional blowtorch on the industry to actually bring about change. We also have a basis on which to proceed if we see that self-regulation is not enough.
i-0811e77887f655c3-233	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I would like to start by saying that I think it is very good that the government has taken up this important issue. A government inquiry proposed legislation in this area ten years ago. The Alliance government did not bother to go ahead with the proposal, and I think that the time is ripe and that it is high time to do so. My supplementary question is: when will the government take the next step with a proposal on legislation against sexist advertising?
i-0811e77887f655c3-235	Mr President, I would like to That's right. There's been an investigation in the drawer for almost ten years. We have looked at it and found that it is no longer holding. If we are to take steps towards legislation – if we find that self-regulation is not enough – we need a new basis. I continue to hope for self-regulation, because if an industry itself wants to bring about change, that is what carries the most. However, if it turns out that there are not enough tools for this, we need to see what the next step can be, and that must be done as soon as possible.
i-0811e77887f655c3-238	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, and it concerns the lack of teachers. Shortly before Christmas, the Swedish National Agency for Education presented an analysis of the need to recruit 77 000 new teachers within a five-year period. The question is not new. For several years there have been forecasts, although they have been rising in recent times. But both the alliance government and the red-greens have made efforts: a new teacher training, skills development, more university places, more resources and higher teacher salaries. At the same time, we see that this has not been enough, and sometimes it has also produced undesirable effects. More higher education places have led to more students with less prior knowledge and even more drop-outs. The government has a responsibility. My questions to the Government are: What will you do now? What is the government's strategy to control development?
i-0811e77887f655c3-242	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for very important questions! As I said, this is an issue that we inherited from the previous government. It was known that we were facing a great shortage of teachers, and we have worked intensively with several measures, as Betty Malmberg well knows. When it comes to the Swedish National Agency for Education's reporting on recruitment needs, it is a result of an assignment that Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin and I gave to the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish University Chancellor's Office to get better forecast data, which is actually something that was missing earlier. However, it is important to keep the figures right. The recruitment requirement is considered to be 72 000. The lack of teachers is now estimated to be about 44,000. This is an enormous amount, but the measures still help to meet some of the recruitment needs, but not all of them. As the Minister for Education has said here before, this is because we have more children.
i-0811e77887f655c3-246	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Figures in all honour– I took them from the Swedish National Agency for Education's press release – what we have seen is that the measures we have taken are inadequate. The government is in power and must have a forward-looking strategy for how to deal with the situation when we have such a lack of qualified teachers. This is also something that UKÄ is calling for. I ask the same question again to the Government: What will the government do now?
i-0811e77887f655c3-248	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg! That is quite right: if we take only high school students who want to become teachers, one in three high school students would have to choose the teacher programme. It's not realistic. That is why we are now opening up more ways into the teaching profession. We will also need to take steps to enable the unauthorised teachers present at school to read their qualifications. We will not surrender until every child and every student meets a competent and qualified teacher. We will take more action until we reach this goal.
i-0811e77887f655c3-250	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Migration. As the Minister of Migration pointed out before, the National Board of Forensic Medicine has for a year been making medical age assessments to help determine whether a person is of age or not. Christian Democrats believe that medical age assessments are needed. We must at all times protect the situation of the children. We must therefore ensure that adult asylum seekers are not placed with unaccompanied minors. It is also important that this is done legally and that continuous follow-up is carried out. In recent months we have been able to follow in the media how criticism has been made of one of the methods that RMV uses for its assessments.
i-0811e77887f655c3-254	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, which I answered in part just now. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear once again that the Government's mission to the National Board of Forensic Medicine is to provide medical age assessments based on research and proven experience and on having a legally secure system. In addition, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has the task of returning during the spring with a knowledge base on the method selection. This, together with the National Board of Forensic Medicine's own presentation today, gives the picture that the work now clearly indicates that one will not deviate from the method that one has. The government, of course, is following the question, but today it has no plans to give any other mission.
i-0811e77887f655c3-255	Mr President, I would like to I understand the Minister's answer as being to evaluate this continuously and to follow it in some way, so that it is as legally certain as possible. It is also our view that this should be done. We think it is important for age assessments to be as legally secure as possible.
i-0811e77887f655c3-257	Mr President, I would like to As far as asylum procedures are concerned, of which medical age assessments are part, I would say that Sweden has the world's most legally secure system. There is also the possibility to appeal against the medical age assessments as well. From the government's side, we have a full focus on ensuring that the rule of law is respected at all times. It is good that the other parties also think that this issue is important.
i-0811e77887f655c3-258	Mr President, I would like to I have a question that I think will go to Gustav Fridolin. The EU fisheries agreement with the occupying power of Morocco has been condemned by the outside world and by numerous human rights organisations. The agreement opens the way for plundering the occupied Western Sahara of its natural resources. The deal's coming to an end. Despite the criticism, the European Commission wants to renegotiate this fisheries agreement. The European Commission has requested a mandate from the Council of Ministers to renegotiate the protocol to fisheries agreements with Morocco. In the Council of Ministers we are part of Sweden, so we should have a position. On the basis of the fact that Morocco is a brutal occupying power, I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin: would Sweden give the Commission a mandate to negotiate a new protocol for the fisheries agreement with Morocco?
i-0811e77887f655c3-262	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for an issue which is both topical and highly relevant. In a way I can of course regret that I must refer to the special arrangements that exist; the government prepares positions to the EU Council of Ministers through committees and the EU Council rather than through specific preparation during Question Time. But I can guarantee that Sweden has consistently under this government been the country in the EU that most clearly and consistently stood up for human rights, including Western Sahara.
i-0811e77887f655c3-263	Mr President, I would like to The last question was raised, Sweden voted against this fisheries agreement. It was very good to stand up for the people of Western Sahara. It is now the case that the Danish Government has received the full negotiating mandate from the European Commission and has a dialogue with its government against the defendant to the EU Council, the EU udvalget. But we in the EU Council have not heard a sound from the government. I would therefore like to ask Gustav Fridolin: can Gustav Fridolin ensure that we in the EU Council can take note of the draft negotiating mandate sent by the Commission to the Council with regard to this agreement?
i-0811e77887f655c3-265	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member. Both the Environment and Agriculture Committee – the Preparatory Committee – and the EU Board have the right to demand consultation and have the right to engage in such dialogue with the Government. There is a fairly clear regulatory framework for how these consultations should be conducted. I assume it's followed.
i-0811e77887f655c3-267	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has been conducting Europe's most liberal migration policy for many years. As a result, we have seen increased segregation, reduced school scores and problems with increased crime. We are also seeing major problems in Swedish healthcare today. In addition, we can add tax increases and a wide range of other problems. However, we have seen a change in the debate. Only yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke of the change of unsustainable migration policy. We are finally talking about the volume issue, something that was very difficult just a few years ago, Mr President. One almost gets the impression that the reception today is not very extensive, not least after talking about having gone to the minimum level of the European Union. My question to the Minister for Migration is therefore as follows: does the Minister consider the current level to be low or normal?
i-0811e77887f655c3-270	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. In 2015, Sweden took the greatest responsibility in Europe for the reception of refugees per capita. We took 163,000 on the run. There is a broad set-up in the Swedish Parliament for us to show that solidarity in Europe. I'm very proud of that. Sweden has also strongly promoted at European level the need for more countries to assume their responsibilities for the proper functioning of asylum reception. That work continues. I hope and look forward to a common and well-functioning system of solidarity for asylum throughout Europe. But I am concerned about the right-wing forces in Europe – which also the Swedish Democrats represent – who do not want to take such a responsibility.
i-0811e77887f655c3-271	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister did not answer my question. It is of course gratifying if the government has changed its policy and once again given the Swedish Democrats the right to ask many questions. In 2017, the second most residence permits were granted in the entire history of Sweden. I ask the question again: does the Minister think that this is a low or a normal level?
i-0811e77887f655c3-274	Mr President, I would like to It was 163 000 in 2015, just over 26 000 in 2016 and roughly the same in 2017. We are still at a very high level. We are doing this because there is concern in Europe. Refugees go to the European countries. However, work on a well-functioning asylum system where more people assume their responsibilities continues.
i-0811e77887f655c3-275	Mr President, I would like to My questions go to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. The first question concerns voting turnout. We have now begun our democracy anniversary for 100 years of voting rights and democracy in Sweden. However, it is not quite true that it is 100 years this year, but we have to count from 1921. So we have 97 years of universal and equal suffrage, which is, of course, very good. But not everyone exercises their right to vote. There are many who choose not to vote, for example because they feel that they cannot influence or feel left out. It is believed that we parties feel the same and do not see the difference. Some people don't even know there's an election in the fall. However, we in here know it very well.
i-0811e77887f655c3-279	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is just as Monica Green describes urgently that we ensure that as many people as possible in our country feel that they can influence society's development and that the election is also a choice for them. It is important that they make the necessary effort to understand what we in various parties actually think and go to the ballot box. What we are doing, among other things, is investing heavily in civil society. We also strengthen the possibility of school elections. In the school elections, this applies partly to those who are not then allowed to vote in parliamentary, municipal and county elections, but also to those who receive it. We will try in different ways to stimulate intermediate election activities to get up and running before the parliamentary elections so that we increase voting turnout. That's the ambition.
i-0811e77887f655c3-281	Mr President, I would like to My second question is about women's representation. Women vote more than men. They come to their senses and want to be part of the influence. Both native and foreign-born women vote more than the corresponding men. Nevertheless, women are not represented as much as men. Men are still the norm in society, and too few women have the leading positions. Can the Minister for Democracy do anything about it?
i-0811e77887f655c3-283	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I hope that as a minister I can do something about it, and above all as a minister of a feminist government. One of the things that Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér and I have done is that we have invited the other parties to talk about this. It was a constructive conversation. We had hoped that the other parliamentary parties would like to join us in a debate or in other moves. I'm afraid they didn't. But we believe that the political parties in the Swedish parliament have a great responsibility to work also on the question of representation.
i-0811e77887f655c3-285	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Education Minister. All parents must be able to feel confident that their children are able to take part in pre-school activities that are good regardless of which preschool they choose. This presupposes that quality monitoring works well. As early as 2016, the Swedish School Inspectorate concluded that the municipalities, which are responsible for monitoring the independent preschools, are failing in their supervision. Two out of three need to develop how they examine on the basis of the curriculum's objectives and eight out of ten need to develop the work of deciding on intervention measures when they detect shortcomings. Ensuring that the quality of all activities is high is one of the most important tasks of the policy, and this is clearly lacking. What does the government intend to do to ensure that supervision of independent preschools works well?
i-0811e77887f655c3-289	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue that Maria Stockhaus highlights. Over the years, we have invested in the Swedish School Inspectorate having made specific reviews of both municipal and independent preschool operations. These reviews provide a good basis for how we continue the development work. This development work has meant that we have been able to make major investments. Although the challenges are great, we now have the smallest groups of children since 1992. There are more children than ever before, but we have managed to push down the size of the children's groups. It is extremely important for the educational activities to reach every child. To move on, on my mission, a government review is now under way led by Investigator Kerstin Hultgren. The revision directives include looking at whether changes are to be made to who is responsible for the continuous review of pre-school activities. Then Maria Stockhaus knows well that we want to make some changes about who is allowed to run preschool. For example, we want to ensure that the tax money that goes into the business also comes to the quality of the preschool and does not go out in profit.
i-0811e77887f655c3-293	Mr President, I would like to The government is quite blinded by the question of profits in welfare. It sees a ban as the solution to many problems in both preschool and school. Unfortunately, it would create quite a mess, not least in preschool operations. M steam good preschools would be forced to shut down because there will be no economic sustainability in their activities. Many of them are small and are also run by female entrepreneurs. As early as 2016, the Swedish School Inspectorate concluded that there are shortcomings and that the municipalities are not able to meet their responsibilities for supervision. That is the most important way of getting to the rogue players that we do not want. Why has the government not done anything before?
i-0811e77887f655c3-296	Mr President, I would like to It is based on the Swedish School Inspectorate's 2016 report that an investigation is now under way looking at whether to transfer responsibility for supervision of independent and municipal preschools. We have acted on that report. The investigation is ongoing and it has the opportunity to make proposals on such changes. Then we can see from, for example, school activities where the review is already with the Swedish School Inspectorate that stricter rules are also needed. That is why I mentioned it in my first speech.
i-0811e77887f655c3-299	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Higher Education Helene Hellmark Knutsson. The lack of teachers is serious and affects society as a whole. In 2019, the government estimates that 58 000 teachers will be missing to meet the needs of schools and preschools. At the same time, more than 38 000 teachers work in other professions. These can be considered as an untapped resource according to, among others, the Teacher Association. Many of these have left the teaching profession with sorrow and can therefore be attracted back. In 2025, Sweden is expected to need 65 000 teachers. My question to the Government is how we can create more paths to the teaching profession.
i-0811e77887f655c3-303	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Yilmaz Kerimo, for the important question! The government's most important priority is to ensure that all children can be met by competent and qualified teachers. As you mention, for too long the shortage of teachers has increased, and the teaching profession has fallen in status. Now we have made major reforms with, among other things, the teacher's salary boost. We're hiring more and more people at school. There are 20 000 more to make sure that teachers are relieved of tasks that they are not trained for or necessarily have to do. We are already seeing results. Of those who have left the teaching profession, more and more people are willing to come back. More and more people are also returning to the teaching profession. But that too is not enough. That is why in the 2018 budget we redistribute SEK 90 million to open up more ways into the teaching profession.
i-0811e77887f655c3-308	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear that the government is taking this issue very seriously and is making efforts to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. More qualified teachers strengthen the construction of society. They are needed not least in the Stockholm region, where the number of children is increasing sharply. Does the Government intend to step up its work and follow up this important issue so that we can deal with the estimated need, which is 65 000 teachers in 2025?
i-0811e77887f655c3-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Yilmaz Kerimo, for the question! We are now expanding teacher training with 10,000 places across the country. But we also need to open up more ways in. We do this through supplementary educational education, so-called VAL, that is, further training of professional teachers, and also the project Teach for Sweden. An initiative that we make is about increasing the number of summer courses. It is a very important part of being able to find more qualified teachers who can read in the summer.
i-0811e77887f655c3-311	Mr President, I would like to My grandmother and my grandmother come from completely different worlds and have different backgrounds. I have noticed that over the years my own interest in my history has increased. My grandmother, who is probably watching right now, turns 93. I can still ask her my questions and get answers. Unfortunately, my grandmother died when I was 15 years old. It means that her story to me is quite unknown. From the end of the year, the National Archives have been able to open their digital archives without this costing, for example, a genealogist. My question to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke is therefore: what are the Minister's expectations of this initiative?
i-0811e77887f655c3-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I have great expectations of this effort and of cultural policy in general in our country. As I hope everyone knows, we have the largest cultural budget ever in Sweden's history right now. Never before has so much investment been made in culture throughout our country, and never before has such a large proportion of the government's total expenditure gone precisely to culture. They go to opportunities, to the cultural school, to the libraries and to, for example, the National Archives. It is about the possibilities for us all not to have to pay to find our roots and to know more about ourselves and where we come from. With that, we also gain a greater understanding of other people and of what can come of everything moving. It is extremely exciting and useful to have knowledge of your cultural heritage and history. So yes, I have the greatest expectations. It will, of course, take several years before we see the result, but this is a good and great investment.
i-0811e77887f655c3-318	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Many times both I and the Minister for Culture have been able to stand in this Chamber and talk about the efforts we have made in the field of culture. There are historically great efforts, as the Minister himself mentioned, and of course the focus has been on making culture more accessible. For me, the initiative at Riksarkivet is both a cultural heritage issue and an accessibility issue. I therefore call on both the Government and the Minister to continue this type of effort.
i-0811e77887f655c3-320	Mr President, I would like to I will take the call with me into negotiations with the Minister for Finance. I take it as a major political task at all to create more culture for more people and to build a national identity, knowledge and education around ourselves and about the development of society by making culture accessible. It is about making culture, art and the different forms of art important to more people. That is the only way forward, and we will continue to do so.
i-0811e77887f655c3-322	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gustav Fridolin. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been commissioned by the Government to carry out a review of the curriculum for preschool. The proposal is now being referred but has already raised concerns and surprises. Such concern is the fact that a preschool staff group, the nanny, is no longer mentioned. Two trained staff groups work in preschool. It is both pre-school teachers, who have a pronounced educational management responsibility, and children's nurses, who are responsible for care and security but also for learning.
i-0811e77887f655c3-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Bergman, for the question! I fully agree with the description. At last, preschools can get a new curriculum! This is needed, because the former is 20 years old and does not provide sufficient support for the professionals who work in Swedish preschools – preschool teachers and child nurses and, for that matter, headmasters of preschool – in the pedagogical assignment. You can read the curriculum well in, for example, the gender equality mission, but it can be better at providing the concrete support that a curriculum should provide. It will be, too. However, when the proposal was sent out for a referral, I also saw this very shortcoming. I have made it clear that I will be making a decision on a curriculum for preschools that clarifies the mission of the nurseries. Children's nurses should be part of the preschool forward, and they should be visible in the preschool curriculum. We also work hard to strengthen vocational education and training in upper secondary school, which is important for us to have more educated child care workers. We see how more and more municipalities are now improving the opportunities for those who are employed in preschool, for example, to get a basic education in working with children when you are a child nurse.
i-0811e77887f655c3-330	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I note that the Minister of Education sees the children's nurses and their important role in preschool. He also sees their skills and know-how, and I am pleased about that. In 2015, more than 80,000 child care workers worked in preschool. Swedish preschools could not function without their work effort. My supplementary question was, in fact, about what the government wants to do to increase the number of educated preschool teachers, but I note that the Government has already answered that question. That was also gratifying.
i-0811e77887f655c3-332	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Bergman! Basically, it's about pre-school work being so important. It's a hard job in preschool today. Despite the fact that we are investing heavily and that we can see in the statistics that children's groups are decreasing, it is not the reality for everyone who works in preschool. We have a lot of really big children's groups left, and we have a lot of things that don't get the right support. But if you can link the work in a good way between preschool teachers, the headmaster of preschool – i.e. what so far is called pre-school manager – and child care workers, it becomes easier work. It is extremely important for children to have the right conditions.
i-0811e77887f655c3-334	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Higher Education. It applies to theological education. Theological education is conducted at Johannelund University of Theology. It is a single training provider. The agreement with the State was signed in 1993. The number of study places was last changed in 2003, 15 years ago. The student influx has increased considerably since 2003, as has the need for religious science expertise, which in turn is largely due to the multicultural society we live in. Despite this, the government has not increased the number of full-time seats at this university in the budget of the year either.
i-0811e77887f655c3-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Annika Eclund, for the question! This is an issue that has been raised for debate precisely for the reasons raised by the honourable Member. Our increasingly multicultural society means that we need to educate more and more people who can take assignments within the churches, for example. But it is also a question of increasing understanding between different groups. We are expanding the theological university in Stockholm with more places. We do this because we believe that high quality can be maintained there. It is important when we expand with more places that we also see that you can do it with a high quality. This involves, among other things, having access to doctoral teachers and other assessments that we make.
i-0811e77887f655c3-338	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that the current university I mentioned is of good quality. The change in allocated seats could already take place today because there are small, small amounts in the education budget. It is disappearing a little, and it is really about being able to redistribute places between universities in an easy way.
i-0811e77887f655c3-340	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Eclund! I really believe that high quality is maintained, and I assume that this is the case. The issue is precisely that education should be able to maintain this quality if the number of places is also increased. It is an issue that is extremely important for the government when we distribute the new seats. We are constantly engaged in dialogue with state universities and higher education institutions as well as with individuals on how to meet their needs and needs in the best possible way. It is clear that we are open to this dialogue during the year.
i-0811e77887f655c3-343	Mr President, I would like to Better prices of food, housing, fuel and insurance, as well as the sale and processing of grain and timber – these are some examples of things that are difficult to cope with alone. These are things that people have been solving together for a long time by setting up and running cooperative businesses. In December, the government decided on a legislative referral with proposals for a new law on economic associations. I would therefore like to ask Minister Fritzon what proposals in the forthcoming bill the Minister thinks will in particular simplify and improve for people who want to start and run cooperative companies.
i-DndyeABQq8RQg95FzWXACq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Haraldsson, for the question. Yes, it was just before Christmas that we decided on a council referral. The assessment is that we will have a proposal by March, in other words this spring. The background is that the Prime Minister already made a promise in the Government Declaration that we will modernise for the economic associations. This has been done in a number of different rounds, of which the largest was perhaps the one that was carried out in 2016 with a wide range of material changes. In the legislative referral that is now out, it becomes a completely new law, and it does not contain very big changes in terms of content, but it is adjusted editorially so that it is actually a completely new piece of legislation. However, descriptions of so-called goaltender regulations are included for board members and also how to handle possible liquidation, but the starting point is that it should be similar to other legislation for companies.
