i-03f296211b8e63f2-5	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members and listeners! Daniel Bäckström has asked me what importance the work and role of the Swedish Defence Committee has for Sweden's foreign and security policy and whether I share the Security Policy Assessment of the Swedish Defence Committee that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be excluded. The external analyses and security policy assessments The defence committee has contributed through the years and has still played a major role in the design not only of military defence but also of foreign and security policy as a whole. Examples include the broad view of the concept of security, including the objectives of our security, as formulated in the Defence Committee's 2006 report, and the formulation of the Swedish solidarity statement in the Defence Committee's 2007 and 2008 reports. A successful security and defence policy requires a holistic approach to security policy. It is a security policy that covers all the instruments at our disposal, political, economic and military, with a view to preventing and managing crises and conflicts. Important examples of this are, on the one hand, the importance of a coherent EU line for the enforcement of sanctions against Russia as long as the reasons for their introduction remain, and, on the other hand, the importance of a consistent and principled defence of the rule-based European security regime. The latter example is also important in a global perspective where norms and institutions, central to our security, are increasingly being called into question by authoritarian leaders and states. The Government therefore looks forward to a forward-looking and updated security policy analysis in the final report of the Defence Committee. This we hope, among other things, will include developments in Russia, the development of the EU's common foreign and security policy and the consequences of a lack of respect for the rule-based world order. Other issues that are also included in the Defence Committee's instructions, with direct bearing on foreign and security policy, include the possibility of contributing to international peace-promoting efforts as well as issues relevant to confidence-building and armament control. The security policy analysis The defence preparation announced will therefore also be of great importance for the development of foreign and security policy. The government is continuously following developments in foreign and security policy and has noted that the security situation in Europe and in the neighbourhood has deteriorated over time. There is broad agreement on this assessment, and we are now upgrading the total defence to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities. The work of the defence committee has a broad political base and is an important basis for the development of defence and security policy. I have full confidence in the work of the Defense Committee. In an uncertain environment, a broad consensus on Swedish security policy is a strength. The defence committee's interim report Resistance – the focus of total defence and the design of civil defence in 2021 – 2025 highlights a number of important issues and proposals. Among other things, there is reasoning about which starting points and planning conditions should be the basis for designing and dimensioning the total defense in order to be able to face an armed attack against Sweden. The fact that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out is one of the planning conditions set out in the report. The security and defence policy direction for the period 2016 – 2020 including military threats to Sweden, which was discussed in connection with the Riksdag's defence decision in June 2015, applies until the Riksdag makes a different decision. After a security policy analysis, it is stated that there are no military conflicts in our neighbourhood that would affect only one country. An individual military armed attack directly against Sweden remains unlikely. However, crises or incidents involving military force can arise and, nevertheless, threats of military attack can never be ruled out. Russia's aggression against Ukraine means that the risk of these has increased, including in our neighbourhood. ..................................................... The Government has already acted on several proposals in the Swedish Defence Committee's report and looks forward to the assessment of the security policy development and its implications for Swedish defence and security policy announced by the Swedish Defence Committee in spring 2019. The interim report and the Swedish Defence Policy Committee's overall final report will then form a basis for the next defence policy orientation decision for the period 2021 – 2025.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-15	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Wallström, for your answer. This is my first period in the Defence Committee, and since autumn 2014, I have been following both the developments in our neighbourhood and the challenges in defence and security issues. It was only a few weeks after the term of office began before the submarine restrictions came. They went on for quite a long time in our neighbourhood, in the archipelago outside Stockholm. We are following developments in Ukraine and what happens after the annexation of Crimea as well as how Russia has entered and acted in the Syrian war. We see the changes in the Middle East and the power struggle between Saudi Arabia and Iran. We see how Turkey acts. Conflicts and wars change and develop. They are extensive and numerous in Europe and also in our neighbourhood. At the same time, we are taking note of reports showing how Russia is developing its capabilities, strengthening defence and prioritising defence spending more than other public expenditure in the country. Russia follows its long-term plan and tries to seize the opportunities that are given. Russian military capabilities are increasing. The preparedness checks that have been carried out in recent years are regular and regular. Exercise activities are extensive, and rhetoric is often harsh. They practice attacks against Sweden, among others. In rhetoric and in statements directed at our area, they stress the importance of nuclear weapons in their capabilities. We see increased hybrid threats, impact operations, information warfare and propaganda. Intelligence has increased, and there is a focus on Russian interests. The relationship between the United States and Russia is deteriorating. The reports we have heard confirm the image of a changed but also a deteriorating security situation. They show that Russia is continuing in its increasingly authoritarian direction. FOI describes in its analyses how Russia wants to increase its authority in the world and see a security regime that is not based on either the EU or NATO. Russia is undermining the European security regime. The reports also show how Russia uses armed forces to achieve its objectives. The flexibility that is developing and the ability to take advantage of given moments is something that makes it even more difficult to assess and uncertain. The development is fast, as we in the Defence Committee also highlight in our report. Russia has a leadership that is determined and describes us in Europe as weak, fragmented and decaying. Patriotism is the focus. There are several further reports that we continue to take note of. During these years, we have negotiated deals with the government and have added additional resources to two decisions after 2015, which strengthen the defence economy and build on our capabilities and that we need to increase it. I thank you for a comprehensive and comprehensive answer. In particular, my first question is answered. But the second question, about how the Minister for Foreign Affairs views our position and our update on the basis of the description contained in the Defence Committee's report, I cannot see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has answered here. I repeat: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share our view that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-27	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State! First of all, I would like to thank my friend Daniel Bäckström, who has made this very important and urgent interpellation. Madam President, I would like Let me first declare that I share the Foreign Minister's view that a broad consensus on Swedish security policy is a strength in an uncertain environment. I also believe that the presentation on 20 December of the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report Resistance, which essentially consists of seven of the eight parties in the Riksdag, was a demonstration of strength. It is an important message, including around the Baltic Sea, that the political parties and the Members of Parliament stand side by side in terms of important descriptions and important challenges and problems that we have to address. That's why it became so unfortunate when Folk och Försvar arranged their national conference in Sälen. On the opening day, Sunday, what came to be seen as undermining activities from the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister around the Defence Committee and its work. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself designated the Defence Committee appointed by the government as one of those groups. It may have been a mistake, but it aroused feelings. I think I know the Secretary of State probably didn't mean that, but it sounded like that. The Prime Minister said this wasn't a negotiated policy. But if there was something we had done, it was to negotiate. For ten months we had turned and turned each side of this report. In some cases, wordings had been repeatedly raised in order for us to reach agreement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite right that a parliamentary decision is valid until any other decision has been made. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs has quoted quite a lot from the decision made by the Riksdag and the directional decision that the Moderates and the Center Party are also behind together with the Social Democrats. It's a good decision, a base album. We need to do more, but that's another thing. But a political settlement is also a deal. Here seven out of eight parties have supported this. For me, a political settlement applies even if it has not so far been formalised in a parliamentary decision. This has been the case, for example, when we have made a deal with the government about more money for the defence, both in the spring change budget and for 2018. When we have agreed on it between the government parties and opposition parties, that obviously applies, even if it takes weeks or months before we have formalised that decision in this House. That is why I have to clarify Mr Bäckström's question. I would ask you, Madam President, to quote what we are writing in the interim report of the Defence Committee at the beginning of Cape. 6, Starting points for the total defense: a armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood. The total defense shall be designed and dimensioned in order to be able to face armed attacks against Sweden including acts of war on Swedish territory. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: does she share that assessment? That assessment is made by three representatives of her party. It is a settlement concluded between at least seven of the eight parties in Parliament. In addition, the government itself has appointed the Defence Committee in its entire composition, including Chairman Björn von Sydow. I must also praise Björn von Sydow in this House for the integrity and undominance with which he has acted as President. This makes it all the more unfortunate that the founder of Sälen remains. The Secretary of Defense has done what he has been able to to indicate that he is behind the Defense Committee and its important work. Now there is an opportunity for the Foreign Minister to say clearly, distinctly, clearly and honestly: yes, I support what my party has done in the Defence Committee, including the formulation of the security policy basis for the overall defence report that is presented.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-34	Madam President, I would like I think most people agree that the Defense Committee has done a very good job. There's no disagreement about that. There is really no disagreement in the government either on this issue. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence have been very clear that they are behind the Parliament's decided direction from 2015, but that they are of course happy to accept the Defence Committee's proposals. On the other hand, it is purely formally Parliament's decision that applies. When the Defence Committee comes up with its final report – this was only an interim report – a decision will certainly be made here in the Riksdag, and then you will have to decide whether to change the line of defence. So far, however, it is purely formal Parliament's decision that applies. If you look at the formulations in the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report and compare with the defence policy direction that Parliament has previously decided on, you can see that the differences are not huge. The Minister for Foreign Affairs developed what is in the direction of defence policy, as decided by the Riksdag. It is almost exactly the same statement that a military attack cannot be ruled out. It says in the direction of defence policy that it is unlikely but cannot be excluded. Russia's aggression against Ukraine is a reason for this and increases the risk in our neighbourhood. I therefore do not quite understand what this debate is about. We have a deal. And no matter what one thinks, it is in fact formally the Parliament's defence policy direction that we must support. The defence committee has produced a very good interim report which includes, among other things, this update on the security situation, but also many concrete proposals, including how to strengthen crisis preparedness in peacetime; there are other types of crisis, which are not military. I believe that much of this could strengthen Sweden as a country, both in terms of defence capabilities and in terms of crises in general. Actually, there is no disagreement on this. We are all looking forward to the final report of the Defense Committee. The Minister for Defence is also very clear when he says that we want to wait until the final report to do the major security policy analysis. This is an update – a progress report, you can see it as – but the final comes then. Then the Riksdag can make decisions, and then it is the parliamentary decision that applies. I do not think there is any reason to paint a major conflict here. We are united, and I think that is a very large force. Defence issues are one of the issues that I think we need to try to get a majority behind. We must try to achieve a long-term approach that is independent of elections. That is why I am very pleased that seven out of eight parties are behind this and that we have such a broad consensus on the fundamentals of Swedish defence. Then this is just an issue on the agenda. Much is also about how we prevent war. We are talking about building up defence capabilities, and it is of course important that we are well equipped both for crises and for any worse things. But the most important thing we can do is to prevent war, and there Sweden is the world champion. For over 200 years, we have managed to maintain peace in our country. The ambition is to continue with this but also to try to create good cooperation in our neighbourhood.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-42	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Bäckström and Mr Wallmark. If I may agree with the previous speaker, I could easily do so; Hillevi Larsson has caught up this issue well. Daniel Bäckström gave an excellent description of the challenges we have in the world. I can agree with everything he said. That is what we discuss daily in the government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. This is the picture and the challenges. In an uncertain environment, a broad consensus on security policy is a strength. There is agreement in Parliament on the security policy situation in Europe and the neighbourhood and that it has deteriorated over time. The deteriorating security policy situation, including with regard to military threats, was also an important conclusion in the direction of security and defence policy, which was established by Parliament's defence decisions for 2016 – 2020. That direction and the parliamentary decision still apply, just as Hillevi Larsson said. There is also a broad consensus on upgrading the total defence to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities. This government has done it and is still doing it. Three defence agreements bear witness to that. The work of the defence committee has a broad political base and is a very important basis for the development of defence and security policy. I have full confidence in the work of the Defense Committee, and I have never said anything else. As I have already mentioned, the work carried out in the preparation of foreign and security policy is also of great importance. The recently published interim report on the direction of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021 – 2025 provides an explanation of the starting points and planning conditions that should form the basis for meeting an armed attack on Sweden. The fact that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out is one of the planning conditions set out in the report. According to the preparation, the armed attack must be dimensional to the total defense. It is in line with the direction of defence policy that Parliament decided in 2015. The report also states that, in connection with a security policy crisis, a conflict or a war in the immediate area, Sweden is deemed to be subject to a combination of various means such as political, diplomatic and economic pressure as well as influence operations, network operations, sabotage and more where also military force can be a component. It once again highlights what I think is the most important thing: the broader security policy attack. It is a question of having a broad security policy that, in addition to total defence capabilities, also includes political, diplomatic and economic instruments that can act preventive and confidence building before a crisis becomes acute. With the first report from the Defence Committee, important work has begun. It will be part of a process that ends with an overall assessment announced by 2019. The Government has already acted on several proposals in the interim report and looks forward to the assessment of security policy developments and its implications for defence and security policy and development of military defence coming in spring 2019. It will then form the basis for the next defence policy orientation decision for the period 2021-2025.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-50	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat my second question: I do not hear an answer to the question if the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares the description and writing of the Defence Committee that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. I hear a descriptive statement on what is in the report of the preparatory work and also a reference to previous decisions in this House. I would remind you that when we negotiated the orientation decision in spring 2015, it was the section on the resources for defence, the objectives and the direction of the five years on which we agreed. When we then dealt with the security policy part, it was entirely the government's own text that was put forward in the bill. It was nothing that either I, Mr Wallmark or the others at the negotiating table on our part contributed to the wording. Now we are in a position, as Hans so clearly declared, where a broad grouping in the Defense Committee shares the description. We've been working on how things have changed. I would therefore like to repeat the question: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share our description? Our Commander-in-Chief often expresses a low probability of armed attack. He does not say that this is unlikely, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also expresses in the debate. There is a difference between what is communicated and how to describe it. I think the description of the Chairman of the Defense Committee as to why we left probability assessments is very relevant. We now lay the starting points for what to do for the total defense and eventually also for the military part of the total defense in the next defense decision-making period but also with a horizon towards what happened thereafter, 2026 – 2030. There are differences. There is a significant difference in how we focus and will indicate the direction depending on how we value the threat image but also the development in our area. There is no doubt that we need to strengthen overall defence capabilities and we need to provide a great deal of resources. Now we have just begun the military preparation. It will run in parallel with further in-depth analysis of the security situation. With what we have come to this point, there is a clearer description. It is an extremely important collective analysis work that is behind the formulations that the Defence Committee has submitted to the government. In what way will the description have an effect in the near future? How will this help to develop security policy in Sweden? I can note that if you only start from what was prepared in the Defence Committee until 2014 and then decided in the Riksdag in 2015, it will be four, five, six years before the next parliamentary decision has been taken. It can be reasonable in a world to start from the decisions made. However, if the development of the world around us is completely different from what was predicted in 2014, one cannot remain in place and read the paragraphs from the Riksdag's decision, but then security policy must be adapted to the evolution of the world situation. Progress is fast, and it is unpredictable in many respects. My question remains.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-57	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think it is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes it so clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares the foreign and security policy description made by Daniel Bäckström in his introduction. I, too, share it. It is important that we have a broad consensus. Everyone is now here, embracing each other in any case rhetorically, saying: "We are in agreement." Then it's gonna be so weird. The basic chord that is left from Sälen are statements about a group that has not been negotiated or that has not been negotiated. It also returns all the time to the parliamentary decision that has been made but does not pay tribute to and honour the political settlement that has been made in the Interim Report of the Swedish Defence Committee. It's gonna be so weird. Madam President, I would like I think we politicians would gain by sometimes admitting that we are wrong or have dripped into it. Here is an excellent opportunity for the Foreign Minister to admit: It did not work out well in Sälen. This means that the entire government, including the Minister for State and Foreign Affairs, is doing just like the Minister for Defence and is behind the Defence Committee and its interim report in all its negotiated formulations. It is up to us to know that the Social Democrats are behind what other Social Democrats have done in the Defence Committee as it casts a great shadow over the entire sub-report. What is the more the government wants to distance itself from by referring to earlier possible parliamentary decisions? This is a political settlement that will precede a forthcoming parliamentary decision. It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that the government has already begun to implement part of the interim report. That's very good. This applies above all to psychological defence as an authority of its own. It is something that the Moderates have been pushing for many years. What becomes more unclear is that you choose and wreck. You take some things from the interim report but nothing else. There are other things that we have highlighted: MSB as its own authority and the Ministry of Defence as a total defence department. None of us understand why you take some things, but don't do anything else. To that will be the inability to say: We Social Democrats are behind what our party colleagues have done in the Defence Committee. Point.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-63	Madam President, I would like The differences in the direction of defence policy decided by the Riksdag and the update of the Defence Committee are very small. It's really a game of words. The fact that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out is the essence of both decisions. Had it been lifted out that a military attack is unlikely and said nothing more, it is clear that there is a difference between it and that a military attack cannot be ruled out. However, when developing the defence policy direction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken, it is very clear that a military attack cannot be ruled out. The formulations are very similar. If you look at what it would lead to concrete support for the exact wording that Parliament has so far or behind the defence committee's update, you can also see no differences in concrete measures. As Mrs Wallström says, several proposals from the Defence Committee have already led to action by the government. The concrete proposals are taken on board, and that must be the most important thing. A joint statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence states that Sweden's national defence capabilities will be strengthened and that this will be done in parallel with developing our security policy cooperation and continuing the successful work on mediation and conflict prevention. We can do this both at national level and in our cooperation in the EU and in the UN. I therefore do not understand what the conflict is about. It is almost exactly the same wording, and politics stands firm.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-67	Madam President, I would like So here's the thing: Me and the government have fully and unequivocally trusted the defense committee's continued work. Its work is of great importance in order to achieve a broad political agreement on security and defence policy. As I said, in an uncertain environment, a broad consensus on security policy is a force. By stating in the report that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be excluded, the Swedish Defence Committee provides basic planning conditions for total defence. The Government does not consider the Defence Committee's report, but it will be an important basis for the preparation of the next defence policy proposal. The security and defence policy direction for the period 2016–2020, including in relation to military threats to Sweden, which was discussed in connection with the Riksdag's defence decision in June 2015 applies until the Riksdag takes a different decision. As has been said, we are working on dealing with and processing the proposals. That is always the case; a government always does. If you add a preparation or an investigation, you receive reports and suggestions and process them. Some of these have already been proposed, and we are continuing the work. This is a very important basis for us. I'll repeat it one more time so that someone else might understand how it was formulated. It says in the current decision: it is not possible to see military conflicts in our neighbourhood that would affect only one country. A unilateral military armed attack directly against Sweden remains unlikely. However, crises or incidents involving military force may arise and, nevertheless, threats of military attack can never be ruled out. That is the decision that applies in the orientation bill, and that is what we are sticking to. Again, the description of the security policy situation shows how important it is to have many instruments at your disposal. This is also what will continue to be an important discussion, as impact operations and hybrid and cyber activities are direct and urgent challenges for us. Then, of course, we must act on them. We are concerned that the debate on security and defence policy will also be wide-ranging in this way.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-73	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers and contributions from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how confidence looks at the continued work of the Defence Committee but also so far carried out! I think it is positive that confidence is strong. It is an undisputed confidence, as the Minister puts it, and she says that there are expectations of further work. The wording is very well balanced. We could have maintained the 2014 wording if the Defence Committee had considered that to be the case. But we had three laps where we systematically processed all the wordings in the report. We went through page by page and row by line and weighed word by word. We sought a broad, constructive approach; that is our starting point. I think we have a very nice working climate in the Defence Preparation – this group which nevertheless helps to see the perspectives both in the short term, based on current situational figures, and when it comes to taking out the steps for what will be required in the longer term. I have great expectations of our continued work when it comes to following up the proposals now presented. The government has reconnected three of the many proposals, and that shows that we are on the right track. However, we will also follow up on the fact that the other proposals will be examined. The very starting point for the continued dimensioning and design of the total defense rests on Chapter 6 of the Interim Report of the Defence Committee on the starting points for the total defence. The introduction to this section states precisely that we do not rule out the possibility of an armed attack. Of course this is important. When there is uncertainty as to what the security policy line is from a country, it sends signals. I therefore hope that we can keep this together in the future and find common denominators. Thank you for the debate.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-78	Madam President, I would like I also think it is a good thing that we have to make these clarifications. This has never really been called into question, and both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence and I have confidence in the work of the Committee on Defence, and we have never said otherwise. We have full confidence, and we want the Defence Committee to continue working on these important issues. I think it is a great strength that we can stick together in terms of much of the problem description and the description of the security and defence policy challenges. We also need to broaden the toolbox and look at all that concerns non-military threats as well. We really need to work hard, for example, to strengthen psychological defence and respond to misinformation. That is what we have already begun. But long-term action is needed, both nationally and internationally. I think we will come to a test, not least with our election movement soon. Then it is important how we act in all parties and that we try to ensure that we have a worthy debate and not deliberately misinterpret each other or destroy the debate. We are going to bring it about the issues, and at least I am going to try to contribute that. I, too, have appreciated the opportunity here to explain that we are united. Our defence and foreign policy will continue to be an important element to ensure that Sweden is safe also in the future.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-82	Madam President, I would like Karin Enström has asked the Minister of Justice how he estimates the situation today for the implementation of pre-clearance with the United States, what assessment he makes of the proposed aviation tax's effects on implementation and when he estimates that pre-clearance with the United States may be in place. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the introduction of air tax does not adversely affect the negotiations on pre-clearance. The Government believes that pre-clearance is important and can contribute positively to Sweden's business development. An attractive Arlanda airport can help attract new foreign investments and business start-ups. In line with the Government's aviation strategy, the Government has also established a Arlanda Council to develop Arlanda Airport in the long term from a holistic perspective. Agreement with the US on pre-clearance was reached in November 2016. In June 2017, the Pre-Client Assessment submitted its proposals on how the agreement should be implemented in Swedish law. The report has been referred, and work is now under way within the Government Office to prepare questions on the implementation of the agreement. With regard to the issue of air tax, it can be noted that aviation can bear its own climate costs to a greater extent through such a tax. Air travel is of great importance for jobs, for accessibility throughout Sweden and to meet the need for long-distance travel, while at the same time it is a challenge for the climate. In addition to the work on the necessary regulatory regulations, the question of when pre-clearance can be applied depends on a number of factors. It is therefore not possible at this stage to indicate a certain time when everything can be in place.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I had hoped for a perhaps a little more engaged and intense response from the Minister for Enterprise. This is a major issue, and I hope that we share the view of the importance of what such an agreement could mean once it is in place and when it works – not just for tourism or travellers in general but to increase the attractiveness of Sweden, Stockholm and Arlanda. It is important for individuals but of course also for business and entrepreneurship and to have even closer contact with the United States. The transatlantic link between Arlanda and the United States is very important. The fact that there is a commitment may not be seen in the answer, but the Minister for Economic Affairs has every opportunity to develop it during this debate. There's a story about this. Only one European country, Ireland, has this in place. The agreement exists, and of course there are a lot of legal regulations and other things that should be in place. I am very curious about what the answer says about a number of factors. I would, of course, like to know what the factors are and whether the issue of air tax has been raised among these factors. The important thing for me and the Moderates is that we get this in place and that Sweden can solve as soon as possible what needs to be resolved regarding these different factors. With the airline tax, Sweden and Arlanda risk being less attractive to the commercial companies that are considering which direct lines to have. This is, of course, included in the calculations. I cannot determine how important this is when making one's assessment, but the question has last been raised, for my part in any case, when the Foreign Affairs Committee visited the United States and was in Washington at the State Department. Then there were two messages you had to Sweden. One was about the question of Sweden's accession to the Nuclear Ban Convention – it does not belong in this debate – and the other was just about air taxes. I have written this interpellation given that I want to see that we can get pre-clearance in place as soon as possible. What are the factors involved? I would like an answer to that and, of course, an assessment, even if the Minister says that no assessment can be made of when it may be in place. In the summer of 2018, it was said several years ago, and I have heard information about autumn 2019. It is urgent that this should be put in place as soon as possible, so what is the government's assessment? It may be possible to leave it orally here.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Increased petrol tax, increased diesel tax, increased vehicle tax, reduced travel tax, planned kilometre tax and now a flight tax to be introduced on 1 April this year. It is not an April joke, unfortunately, but an additional tax from a distance that this government intends to introduce. I have said it many times, and I say it again: I think this is an anti-Norrland policy, because something that we have a lot of in Norrland, where I usually am, is just a distance. Taxes from a distance make our opportunities difficult and also damage Swedish prosperity and Swedish welfare in general. Let me land in a discussion about the plane tax. It should be 60 SEK per one-way journey within Europe. Return is therefore 120 SEK in tax. 250 SEK it costs if you travel to a continent other than Europe with a distance of no more than 6,000 kilometres from Arlanda. 400 SEK, which is category 3, the highest tax, it costs to travel to a continent other than Europe with a distance of more than 6,000 kilometres from Arlanda. But there is one exception, Madam President, and that is the United States. Many of the destinations in the United States that are flown to from Arlanda are further than 6,000 kilometres away, but still they end up in category 2, i.e. the lower tax. What it actually means is that, although it is shorter to travel to Thailand than to Los Angeles, it becomes much higher tax for those who travel to Thailand than for those who travel to Los Angeles. That's what it's all about. Madam President, I would like I agree with what my parliamentary colleague Karin Enström mentioned just now about the advantage of pre-clearance in relations between Sweden and the United States and not least for all Swedish travellers who travel for pleasure or in their work to the United States. Let me also make it clear that I think one thing that this government has actually done well is the work on pre-clearance. What made me a little worried was when the rumors started to say that the US was not so happy that they would end up in the most expensive category when it comes to the airline tax and that it could somehow risk this pre-clearance thing. It was on the basis of what I wrote my question to the Minister, Madam President, because I wanted to know how this government intends to work to bring this to a successful conclusion. I really have two questions for the Minister. It has been some time since this question was written, and it is not the Minister's fault but my fault, because I had a cold at the first time in the debate. That's what happens. So I have two questions for the Minister. One is about the lower flight tax on trips to the United States. Was it a request from the United States that this government met to save the pre-clearance that this maneuver should be made? If that were the case, I wonder if the US is now satisfied with the changes the government has made to the air tax so that the US gets a lower flight tax despite the long distance. Are we satisfied now so that we can proceed with pre-clearance? These are my questions to the Minister.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-104	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna try to figure this out. It is a bit of two different discussions in one, and I will start with Edward Riedl's speech. It is not really the subject of this debate, so we will have to take it another time, but when he is ripping up all the taxes that the Moderates are opposed to and all the economic instruments that led to greener development, my only conclusion is that the Moderates have no environmental policy at all. I can't draw any other conclusion. Sweden has signed the Paris Agreement. 30% of our CO2 emissions come from the transport sector. It is clear that we need to change our transport sector, and here I am afraid that the Moderates are beginning to fall behind Swedish industry and not least the automotive industry in Sweden, who wants to see instruments and who want us to help in the transition towards a green sector. It is another debate, but I have to say it anyway because there was a discussion on this. We believe in the government that it is reasonable that aviation should also bear part of its socio-economic costs. We have a fairly united research team that believes that this is necessary to move forward. With regard to the second question, which is about the US and distance, the US has always been clear in different contexts when it prefers not to see a flight tax in Sweden. It's not a secret. It's been clear from the beginning. I think they're glad they ended up in the middle segment instead of the high segment. I haven't talked to them directly about this, but I guess they're glad they didn't end up in the top class. The reason we chose to put the US in the middle class was that we made an assessment that it is quite difficult to deal with a situation where you would have different air taxes to one and the same country depending on where in the country you land. The United States is a large country with very large distances. It is a parameter that we wanted to make things easier by ensuring that the US is treated in the same way and thus also ended up in the middle segment. I think it matters to our ability to land pre-clearance that we show that we take this agreement very seriously. That's my assessment. I have not discussed it with the United States in this way, but I think it matters that we chose to do this on the part of the government. When it comes to the slightly broader issue of pre-clearance, I have been very committed to this issue. As mentioned earlier, it is only a country that has such an agreement before. And there was really no pre-work in the Government Office. So we've had to start from scratch. It is positive that we now have a, as I see it, quite broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament that we should go this way and try to bring this to land. I believe that it means a lot to our transatlantic relations, not just to trade, in which I am committed – investment and job growth on both sides, the tourism sector and headquarters – but it also has a security policy dimension. It is important for Sweden that we get closer to the USA in different ways. The government's assessment remains that pre-clearance should be introduced at Arlanda Airport. The airline tax is without prejudice to that assessment. There were some different questions, and I will not be able to answer everyone in this speech. But I'll start with the legal parts. We have to do this right and right. We cannot skip the legal conditions. We have had an investigation and a consultation round, and several of the consultation bodies have pointed out that there must be in-depth analysis and that we need to sort out a number of issues. In some cases, the Ombudsman, the Police Authority and the Swedish Data Protection Authority call for further investigations and more detailed analysis. It is a work that we do and that we take seriously. We want it to carry all the way as we move on with the issue. There should be good legal support for pre-clearance in the future. The comments are now being analysed in the Government Office, and we will do so as soon as we can. We have an interest in coming up with a proposal for legislation that can make it possible with pre-clearance in Sweden.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-117	Madam President, I would like These are two interpellations with slightly different starting points. In a way, it might have been better to handle them separately. But here we are. I believe that I and the Minister nevertheless agree on the importance of trying to get to the finish. Once the legal parts have been completed, it is a question of investment. It's about purely physical construction and other things. Then it is important that we from the Swedish side constantly show in the process that we are doing this and that we really want to do it. So I get a little perplexed when the Minister for Economic Affairs says he hasn't talked to American representatives about this. I assume that this is all about the effects of the airline tax. And it may seem a little strange because it is something the Minister has put forward to representatives of Parliament, even. It would be a little surprising if there was no reaction at all. Was the view of the airline tax, which will still exist, positive or negative? The question is whether it will affect the decision-makers and the market players that exist. Commercial operators must, of course, make their own decisions. I would almost like the Minister for Economic Affairs to explain what he means when he says he hasn't talked to them. I hope there are ongoing talks about the process. It's important. We have not had pre-clearance before, and this presents challenges to the Swedish legal system. They're going to be analyzed. At the same time, we will show that we still want this and that it is important to us. If we lose pace, we also risk losing interest from companies and individuals when it comes to the attractiveness of Arlanda Airport. That's what I'm concerned about. The Minister has dealt with a number of legal aspects. In-depth analyses shall be carried out. How hard is the whole government pushing? I understand that this is of the highest interest on the basis of the Enterprise Minister's portfolio. But how has the government interacted on the matter? It was against the background of what I wrote my interpellation. At one end air taxes are introduced, and at the other end they are struggling hard to bring about US pre-clearance at Arlanda. What is the commitment in the whole government? Do you have a holistic view of this? I hope, of course, that the answer is yes. I would like to say once again that I understand if the Minister does not want to promise a date. But is there any appreciation in this regard? Pressure must also be put on the legal system in Sweden.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-126	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the green changeover, which the Minister is talking about. It has nothing to do with the substance of the debate, but it does. The Kilometer tax, for example, is a tax at a distance. For example, I talked to the CEO of Norrmejerier, who stated that even if they were to introduce 100% electric power on their trucks, they would pay that tax, even though they would have zero climate emissions. The problem with this government's planned and introduced environmental taxes is precisely that they have very much to do with taxing distances and very little actually combating environmental problems. The same is true of air tax, which is also introduced under the pretext of tackling environmental problems. At the same time, we see that the effect is that airlines with lower margins will have to sub-optimise, which means that we will have longer routes, among other things. Furthermore, those airlines that have already either introduced or have planned to introduce green aviation fuels, which are more expensive, will not be able to afford it because of smaller margins. It's boring. It leads to the wrong things and does not help the environment in any way. Madam President, I would like Let's go back to the interpellation. It is 6 300 kilometers to New York from Arlanda. To Los Angeles it is 8 900 kilometers. To which destinations in the United States is it a shorter flight route than 6,000 kilometres from Arlanda Airport? I don't know any of them. There must be disappearance few or in practice none. Yet the government chooses to do so. I'm not against pre-clearance. I'm in favour. And I'm in favour of having good trade relations with the United States and other parts of the world. But I am very much against this aviation tax, which is counterproductive in this respect. I'm against the airline tax, the Moderates are against the airline tax and the entire Alliance is against the airline tax. We have said that as soon as we get the confidence of voters to regain government power, we will abolish air tax because it is counterproductive, and it does not help the environment in the least. If we stop at almost no part of the United States within 6 000 kilometres, we can see that large parts of the Middle East, large parts of Asia and large parts of Africa are much closer. It's a shorter flight distance, but there's a higher tax on a shorter flight path. I may have misinterpreted the minister. But is it the case that all trading partners in the Middle East, Asia and Africa, where it is actually shorter flight route than to the United States but receiving a more expensive tax, are much less important trading partners than those from the United States? Only the Minister can answer that. I think everyone's important. That is why I do not want any airline tax at all. Then you wouldn't have to go on and on and fix with the different parts. I would like an answer from the Minister. I wonder to which parts of the United States we have a shorter route than 6,000 kilometres. I believe, without knowing, that the United States has somehow got at least this government to understand that if you do not meet this, you will not get pre-clearance. That's why the government has done it. Then maybe this trixing and fixing is good in some sense. But it is still a strange attitude to negotiate under the table in this way when introducing such taxes. I just want one final clarification. So, if I understood the Minister correctly, there has been no talks between Sweden and the United States to accommodate the United States in this regard.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-137	Madam President, I would like I have to come back to the environmental discussion. It is said here that it is useless to introduce a change of fuel, which means that we force those who sell fuel to have more renewable energy in the fuel pumps at the same price. It will grow over time. Of course it makes a huge difference for the environment. We are introducing a bonus – Malus system for the vehicle fleet, so that those who buy a new car that is better for the environment get a bonus while those who buy a car that is bad for the environment have to pay a malus. It has, of course, a guiding effect on climate policy forward. When the government joins the automotive industry to collaborate on a test lab for electric vehicles, it means a lot to Swedish industry, so that one can continue to be at the forefront when it comes to the whole conversion of the vehicle fleet to electric operation. It is clear that this is an important environmental policy, and I understand that the Moderates are opposed to virtually all of this, including the test bed for electric vehicles. I don't get it. You are completely on a collision course, not only with the environment but also with the future interest of Swedish industry to be at the forefront of the transition. We have not put forward a proposal on mileage taxes; Edward Riedl knows that. It is not possible to count on the effects of a proposal that the government has not presented. An investigation has been presented that the government chose not to go forward with. But I am also talking to the automotive sector in Sweden. It is said that much of the Swedish supply chain has been knocked out because it has been outcompeted by vehicles that do not comply with legal requirements, which do not comply with existing EU directives and which are also not sufficiently environmentally friendly transport. It is clear that there is a point in discussing that foreign hauliers who are present in Sweden are involved in paying for wear and tear on Swedish roads so that there will be a better infrastructure in Sweden, but also order and order in the transport sector. You have to be able to do several things at the same time. As far as air tax and pre-clearance are concerned, I can assure you that we have had a lot of discussions with Americans at different levels. I have not had a dialogue with the Americans where we have negotiated the level of air tax that we are going to end up on. On the other hand, the United States is undoubtedly our most important trading partner globally. Germany and Norway are our largest export countries. But if you look at investment flows, research collaboration and how many jobs are created in Sweden, the United States is outstanding for us. Of course, it is very important for us to maintain good and good relations with the United States. Pre-clearance is part of this. I think it is good that we are having a discussion about the need to take the legal aspects seriously. I have no reason to delay this. I want it to happen as soon as possible. But when we have legislation in place, then we have to know that it goes through, that it holds on to legal scrutiny. Otherwise, we have not done ourselves or the Americans a favour, unless we have worked this through well. I was a little surprised that you didn't follow it up at this shift, but the economic conditions are wider than just the airline tax. You talk a lot about the plane tax. In fact, Swedavia has made calculations showing that the investment costs are higher than previously calculated. It's a parameter. Then it has turned out that the way in which costs are to be allocated, which Swedavia assumed, is no longer a model that can be implemented. It also affects economic conditions. Then we get a lot deeper into the opportunities that we as a state have to go into and support this type of investment. It's not just a commercial interest. There is also a community interest in achieving pre-clearance. That work continues in the Government Office.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-145	Madam President, I would like I think we should return to debating environmental and climate policy. But firm belief is that we do not have the same means to achieve the goals that we agree to achieve towards fossil-free and to reduce our impact on the atmosphere and the environment for the sake of the climate. I will come back to my main question, which is based on concern and curiosity about the progress of the issue. There was a lot of noise and noise and many news for very good reasons when the agreement was signed. Then it feels like the process has gone to bits. We received a message that the United States, via its foreign ministry, saw the airline tax as a problem. That is why I asked the question. The Minister for Industry has described the process, that it is not only legal challenges but also the need to sort out the economy. Something may look very good initially, and then you obviously have to find out what things cost, who will stand for what. It must also be done in accordance with state aid rules. There I really agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that this is an interest that is broader than just allowing people to travel a little easier. It is of great importance for industry and the economy, but also for security policy and foreign policy cooperation. My final question to the Government is: What is the Council itself doing to speed up the process, even if it is complex and complex?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-150	Madam President, I would like Let me start at an end that has nothing to do with this interpellation. The reason why I, other Moderates and also members of other alliance parties are talking about the kilometre tax is because there are ministers in your government who want to introduce mileage tax. A government should have only one opinion – one might not believe that when one sees this government – but you have ministers talking about this tax being introduced before the end of this term. That is one of the reasons why I am conducting this debate. If the Social Democrats and the Green Party are not in agreement, then you must solve it rather than let me try to sort it out. Moreover, it seems that individual ministers from the same party also find it difficult to agree on one or the other. The last time it was the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs who found it difficult to agree on a common position. Enough about that, Madam President. I share the Minister's view of the United States as a very important partner. I am in no way against the government working hard for the US to remain a good partner. If you now understand how negative the airline tax is so that you have to make exceptions, then you should understand how negative it is in all other areas too. It may not even be necessary to introduce it, as the airline tax has this kind of negative effect. It sounds to the Minister like this is good environmental policy. I have tried to describe in my speeches that this is a bad environmental policy that leads to increased emissions, to less green fuels and to sub-optimisation that is bad for the environment. I may have listened poorly, but to what destinations in the United States is it less than 6,000 kilometers? The explanation was that the United States is one and the same country, and therefore there is a tariff for the route there.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-155	Madam President, I would like I look forward to more debates on the subject. I think we should come back to environmental policy, not least, more times. After this debate, it is clear that the Moderates are not only critical of our environmental efforts, which already have and will have an impact on the market today. There is no environmental policy. It's empty in the box, hugely empty. It can be witnessed by any environmental organisation when they review your budgets or what you say in different contexts. Action is completely empty, and it will not last. Last year, the Arctic was 20 degrees warmer than normal. The ice melts much faster. It is clear that we must have an environmental policy in which aviation also bears socio-economic costs. It's no wonder. As far as pre-clearance and Arlanda are concerned, I have noted that this is an important issue for the government. We will continue to work on it. We're not just working on pre-clearance, although it's a very important issue in our transatlantic relationship. It is also about developing Arlanda's ability to grow with more direct lines, not only to the USA but also to other parts of the world. I can also inform the House that Arlanda is currently growing faster than, for example, Kastrup, which is one of our rival airports in our part of Scandinavia and Europe. We have also set up a Arlanda Council, including the region, the business community and several ministers – including myself – which includes the region. In the Arlanda Council we discuss how Arlanda as a hub for air traffic will develop to meet the challenges of the future. It is an exciting work that is going on, where the whole government is behind the aviation strategy that has been presented. It is about making Arlanda even more attractive as a hub for air traffic. Swedish industry, the economy and also the environment benefit from more direct connections instead of stopovers. I look forward to continuing to work for pre-clearance, to make sure to realize it in the future but also to make sure to develop Arlanda. It is a large and important airport for Sweden.
i-CmH6mKmPvgQPpz6chrSj49	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of State Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Per Bolund and Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-161	Madam President, I would like The Government has today decided to appoint Anders Thornberg as Chief Police Officer. It welcomes the Moderates and the Swedish police. However, if we are to reverse developments, the police also need clear information about a new criminal policy that supports the police and substantially tightens the penalties. The Moderates believe that Sweden, like Denmark, should double the penalties for gang criminals. We should also consider new methods, such as the introduction of a ban on the stay of criminals in certain vulnerable areas to ensure that they do not return as heroes and that they have received a penalty that does not excuse them.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-164	Madam President, I would like The government has just presented the new Head of the National Police, namely the Head of the Swedish Security Service Anders Thornberg. He has broad support both internally and externally, and I think he will work perfectly well in the coming years to take the police organization forward. In addition, he has done a good job as a security police officer, and 37 years as a police officer undeniably brings some respect with him. In addition to taking over this assignment, Anders Thornberg will also have better opportunities than ever before. There will be more money for the police, better criminal law tools, more camera surveillance and also a reorganisation in place. About 30 sentences have been tightened so far. There is a penalty for those involved in gang crime. In some respects, we need to move forward in this area, but here it is about improving the efficiency of the police and ensuring that more people are caged. That's the most important thing right now.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-167	Madam President, I would like It is true that even today there is a certain level of punishment. However, my question is whether the Minister of Justice is prepared to bring forward a gang rule that doubles the sentences of the gang criminals, for example open to a ban on residence – as has been done in Denmark. It is high time, Madam President, to realise that it is not enough to provide the police with resources, but we must ensure that dangerous individuals are away from the vulnerable areas for a long time.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-169	Madam President, I would like That's where we're in complete agreement. Among other things, the government will come forward with a penalty for murder. We will make proposals before the end of the term of office. The life sentence shall be the normal sentence. The government has carried out penalties for over 30 crimes. We are now going in with extra money. I do not rule out the need to do more, but the important thing is to ensure that the police get the calm and the peace they need to improve the investigation results.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-172	Madam President, I would like Stolen goods with an estimated value of SEK 1 - 2 billion are taken out of our country each year. It is largely stolen from the Swedish countryside. People are affected when cars, car parts, machines, boat engines and other things disappear. In this situation, it has become apparent that the Swedish customs are in a position to deal with the outflow of stolen goods, as there is currently no legal support to intervene. The Center Party believes that the Swedish countryside cannot be excluded from a functioning and coherent legal chain. All the thefts that take place there and elsewhere, and when the stolen goods then leave the country, affect individuals and businesses. In order for customs to be able to intervene, an amendment or a new regulation is required.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-175	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson's description of the situation is quite correct. The international theft leagues account for almost half of all burglaries committed in Sweden. It is also a case of crimes against the elderly, where they sometimes lurk into their homes to steal what is there. This also applies to forestry machines, premium cars and boat engines. The government will shortly present a coherent package to counter this type of international theft leagues. We're in the final stages of work. We look at what customs, Coast Guard and police can do. We are particularly looking at making it more difficult to remove stolen goods from the country. We are also looking at the possibilities of further improving police cooperation in the countries we are talking about here where the active criminals operating in Sweden come from.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-177	Madam President, I would like I'm glad Morgan Johansson shares my and the Center Party's reality description. I am pleased to hear that cohesion legislation is under way. Does that mean, Madam President, that customs will also be woven into the legal chain required?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-178	Madam President, I would like I would like to avoid having to make any changes to the law – we know how long it takes to make changes to the law. What we can do in the framework of today's legislation is, of course, better. You'll see when it clears what we've come up with. But customs is at work. It is also about continuing to work with the countries – Romania, Lithuania, Georgia and Albania – where Sweden needs to deepen its cooperation. The government will shortly present a coherent package.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-180	Madam President, I would like Sam Mubarak is in second grade in high school and has been with me here for a week in Parliament. He's president of Kumla pool club, which he started a year and a half ago. Today, the association has 150 young people as members. Sam has a question for Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke: Association life is part of the culture. An association is an association where several people with the same goals socialize and meet to have fun and develop. Today, however, in many cities and areas, associations are less active. What does the Minister of Culture think are the reasons for this, and what does the government intend to do to strengthen the community life in these very cities and areas of this development?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-182	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Örnebjär, for the further question! The question is important, and Sam is not the only one to wonder. Although there has been a strong civil society and society in Sweden for decades and centuries, and despite the fact that the government has increased support for civil society since we took office, many young people still feel that they do not have the platform they need or do not find the forms they need to channel their engagement. This is precisely why the government has strengthened support for everything from the whole of Sports Sweden to youth organisations and also municipalities so that they can better manage and receive people and channel them to different parts of society.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-185	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. An association should be open to everyone. Many associations have high membership fees, and that can be an obstacle. However, an almost greater obstacle is the lack of parents who can put up and push or sell sausages and lottery tickets. In Kumla billiards club, for example, 63 out of 150 members are unaccompanied youths. Going to a competition together is virtually impossible, because there is no one who can drive. This is a development which, unfortunately, is going the wrong way. How does association life become truly inclusive so that everyone can participate?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-189	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Christina for her continued question. Christina Örnebjär puts her finger on a great challenge for us, especially as we in this House and in the country as a whole talk about creating conditions for young people, including unaccompanied minors who have come to our country and need opportunities to take their place. In the absence of parents, a strong community life is needed that has the resources to be that extra parent who rides, stands in the kiosk and so on. Here there is interest from the Swedish association life, and a lot is done.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-192	Madam President, I would like Last Tuesday, Rakhmat Akilov was charged. He carried out a terrorist attack on Drottninggatan almost a year ago. Five people lost their lives, and about a hundred were among the victims. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that a single terrorist can put terror in an entire nation. This means that we, responsible for national security issues, cannot afford to make a single mistake. After both having been noted by the Swedish Security Service and received a second rejection of their asylum application, Akilov is invited to leave the country at the end of 2016. He chooses not to leave the country, and the police are assigned to try to find Akilov and execute the expulsion order. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, Akilov had been detained until the authorities had been able to guarantee that the expulsion was carried out. With government policy, Akilov ended up in a truck on Drottninggatan. Morgan Johansson! Why do you continue to enable foreigners to escape expulsion decisions in our country when we know that one mistake can have devastating consequences?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-197	Madam President, I would like Everyone probably remembers April 7 with great sadness and dismay, and we are naturally convinced that we are doing everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. That's why we're strengthening police operations and the Security Service. We are also intensifying the work on expulsions, and now about 1 000 people who have been asylum seekers leave Sweden every month. We will have to continue these efforts to ensure that those who have been refused their asylum application also leave Sweden. We just come with a bill to Parliament that will make it easier to do workplace inspections to see that those who work at a workplace really have permission to be here. The Swedish democrats' proposal would mean a mass lock-in. We would have to put tens of thousands of people in camp, and I am not prepared to contribute to that. We can't do that.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-201	Madam President, I would like We know that expulsion decisions can be a trigger for many asylum seekers and make them outward-looking with violence as a component. We have an attentive case in Västerås in the near future. Two people were stabbed to death, and the motive was to avenge Sweden for a rejection of an asylum application. If you do not take seriously the question of detention in the event of refusal of asylum application, you do not take national security seriously either. This is not the first time the government deserves criticism in this context, but hopefully it is the last, given that we are approaching an election.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-204	Madam President, I would like At the same time, the measures we take must be proportionate to what we want to achieve. Should we take care of and lock up tens of thousands of men, women and children, which the Swedish Democrats are looking for, we would have a camp operation in Sweden that we have never seen before. That is the kind of action you want to take. We concentrate on the people at risk and do what we can to control them, and when necessary we put them in custody.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-206	Madam President, I would like I address my question to the Minister of Justice. Foreign theft leagues are a growing problem. The police's National Operations Department has shown in a report, one year old, that foreign theft leagues account for perhaps 50% of burglaries and that they use the temporary social security numbers, the coordination numbers, as cover. A number of points are being proposed to address this. For example, a person with a certain coordination number owns 28 000 cars. It is therefore believed that a person with a coordination number should be able to own only one car and also have to identify. As it is now, you do not need to identify yourself, and this makes Sweden very attractive for the foreign theft leagues to operate in.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-210	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, we will shortly be coming back with a package of targets and measures aimed at the international theft leagues. There are several elements here. There will be better cooperation between the Swedish police and police in, for example, Romania, Lithuania, Georgia and Albania. It will also be more difficult to remove stolen goods from Sweden, and there are some different ways to go. I also want a system in which the person convicted of this type of crime in Sweden is serving his or her sentence in his or her home country. In our prisons we currently have about 50 Lithuanians and 50 Romanians who have been convicted of crime. There's no reason for us to have it like that. We must therefore ensure that they serve their sentences in their countries of origin instead. We just started an investigation to review the registration of cars. We see great trouble with car goalkeepers, and we will be able to get to it in this way.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-213	Madam President, I would like That's good, because it's hasty. This has been a problem for years. Today, blurred copies are received by the Swedish Transport Agency, and coordination numbers are issued. The Swedish Transport Agency could require people to legitimise themselves and show themselves. You could also check with Estonia and Latvia. It'll take a couple of hours to see if it's a real person. Action is needed in the near future, for this creates insecurity in Sweden.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-216	Madam President, I would like As I have just said, we will shortly be coming back with a package aimed at international theft leagues. We have not had the problem of registrations for several years, but for several decades, and it has been able to grow. Actually, there are two issues we are talking about. The coordination number is one part and the car goalkeeper problem is another. The fact that you can have several thousand cars registered is of course not reasonable. That is why my colleague, Tomas Eneroth, has set up an investigation to review this particular issue.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-220	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to the Minister of Justice. The Law Council has come in with criticism of the government's proposal for new rape legislation. Criticism mainly concerns two parts. It is believed that there is a lack of legal need for new legislation and that the proposal provides for a lack of predictability in accordance with the principle of legality. Many citizens who have been involved in this issue for a long time are now concerned that there will be no change. I therefore wonder how the Minister views the criticism that has been received and whether the Minister can clarify that there is no intention on the part of the Government other than that Sweden should have rape legislation based on voluntary and consent.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-224	Madam President, I would like It is true, as Lawen Redar says, that the Law Council has these two points of view. On the one hand, it questions whether there is a legal need for this and, on the other hand, whether it meets the principle of legality. In fact, when the need is questioned, the whole change, not only the consent law, but also the offence of negligence and the tightening up of serious rapes, with which we also want to go forward. So the Council's image seems to be that we should not do anything about the legislation; it is a good thing as it is. That is not my opinion. My view is that we should strengthen the legislation and reform sex crime legislation. That is why we are now working on a legislative proposal for this, and we will present such a proposal to Parliament on 22 March when the proposal expires. We must, of course, comply with the principle of legality, and we are therefore working to adjust the proposal so that we can do it.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-228	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. It is extremely important that we send out the signal that nothing else will change in the process but that the government should present this necessary legislative proposal to change the norm and the whole process of rape in our country. Does the Minister think that the criticism of the Law Council can mean that other parties now get cold feet and perhaps do not support the bill?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-231	Madam President, I would like At least I haven't received any such signals. We will be in contact with the other parties to ensure that the strong backing that has been in place and which existed in the Committee keeps all the way forward. I think it is important that we go to the goal of this legislation. If you have had a committee that has worked for a few years on this, it is basically a well done work. We need to adjust the bill in order to comply with the principle of legality, and we will do so.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-234	Madam President, I would like It's not always easy to do the right thing. Being a conscious consumer can be both difficult and challenging. Earlier this week we were able to read an article with the title There were three researchers at the Stockholm Environment Institute who wrote, "It's time to move responsibility for sustainable consumption from individuals to politics." .....................................................
i-03f296211b8e63f2-237	Madam President, I would like It is an incredibly important discussion, and it basically shows that many people in our country and in our world want to be part of the solution to the environmental challenge and sustainability problems. It is clear that we as individuals have a responsibility for the choices we make, but it is incredibly important to point out that we as a society and we as decision-makers have a responsibility to make sustainable choices. Sometimes the threshold is simply too high. This is why the government's policy is aimed at making sustainable choices easy and profitable for consumers in different situations. We work widely with many different measures. Some examples are reduced VAT on repairs of bicycles, clothes and shoes, to make it easy to repair and use these longer, the REP deduction when repairing your home appliances, so that this becomes profitable, and a bonus – the malus system when buying a car, which makes it profitable to choose the best technology and not the most dirty cars. The aviation tax to be introduced in the spring will lead to incentives to choose more sustainable transport, and of course we will also invest in the options. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-241	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government that it should be easy to do the right thing. It is important that policies take action. As of today, I am also a member of the Swedish Consumer Agency's Transparency Council. I would like the Government to mention some of the things that the Swedish Consumer Agency has been commissioned to work with in this area.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-243	Madam President, I would like Of course, our authorities have an incredibly important role to play in this, not least in providing guidance and helping us to act in a sustainable way. We have launched the major consumer traffic management service Hello consumer, which is now just a phone call or a chat away from us consumers. We have also asked the Swedish Competition Authority to set up a forum for environmentally smart consumption and to work to make it easy for the individual to make environmentally smart choices. So our consumer office will be an active agent to help us make the wise choices in the future.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-246	Madam President, I would like Five master students at Karolinska Institutet are expelled from Sweden just a few months before graduation. They have been refused their applications for a renewed residence permit. These are people who have paid up to half a million dollars in tuition fees – people who have not committed any crimes or in any other way have been a burden to the country. The fact that these students are not allowed to graduate is a tragedy for themselves but also a great shame for Sweden. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Energy and Coordination Ibrahim Baylan, who answers general questions: What does the government intend to do?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for an important question! It was with raised eyebrows that you saw these elements. What we're talking about, at least what it looked like in the feature yesterday, are students or students who during five semesters have both had a living and been able to pay what it cost. That's why you're a little surprised. The government has made some changes in the workplace, not least during the time of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Migration. I think we should look at this too. It is clear to ordinary citizens that this seems very strange, but as I said, I have no detailed knowledge. It looked very strange.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-251	Madam President, I would like I would like to know when a review will take place. It is distressing that the government is doing everything possible to allow people without asylum reasons to stay in Sweden while skilled and energetic students are expelled.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-252	Madam President, I would like The last is for the honourable Member, because that is not the migration and asylum policy that we are promoting. Rather, we are trying to ensure that there will be order after two chaotic terms with bourgeois government. We will, of course, look at this and see what there is to do. If it's what it looked like in the news agency, of course it's not good.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-255	Madam President, I would like A year and a half ago, the Minister of Culture stood on Kulturhuset's stage and said that e-sports is of course sport, and it was equally obvious that gambling is culture. Nevertheless, I see nothing like this in government policy. This is a real problem for associations around Sweden who are looking for support and grants and want to get help with their gaming in different ways, because there is no concrete governance from the Riksdag. Municipalities and county councils are deluded. They often look at the rich level, but when there is a complete lack of politics in this area and you do not know what to class it as an excuse to do nothing. My question to the Minister for Culture is: How does the Minister of Culture live up to his words, and what policy is being taken for e-sports to be sport and for gambling to be culture? I see nothing in government policy that suggests that.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-259	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question and for highlighting a challenge that we have! I said it a year and a half ago, five years ago, ten years ago and certainly last week: gambling is culture. It's a great form of culture. Many young people play, find fellowship, develop as associations and become an asset to our democracy by playing. I therefore welcome the fact that, in municipalities that I visit around the country, this has been heeded and given priority to creating space. Not too rarely have municipalities been able to do so because they have applied for projects and support partly from the state funds that we have worked out and prioritised in the government. But much more needs to be done, and we need to be more people talking about gambling as part of the rich cultural offering we have in our country, for which we are pursuing a policy of creating the conditions.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-263	Madam President, I would like My question was how the government prioritises this. It is amazing that municipalities out there do good things, but there are announcements in the Riksdag that the government should act in this area. For example, if you want to set up a gaming café, a pinball game and so on, you need a permit today and pay a fee to the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate. There is a parliamentary decision that this should go away, and yet nothing happens. It's been years since the announcement came. This is old-fashioned, absurd and should be scrapped. When will this happen, Minister of Culture?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-266	Madam President, I would like On the basis of my responsibility as Minister of Culture, a great deal is happening. Among other things, we have increased the opportunity for the Swedish Arts Council to support various activities throughout the country with increased funding, including national money. But more needs to be done, and we need to be more people who in different ways raise and push the issue and who not least support all the young people who in different ways organize themselves, play and want to be part of Kultursverige.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-269	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Electricity network charges have increased largely throughout the country in recent years. For an ordinary homeowner, the average prices of large electricity grid companies rose by close to SEK 3,300 between 2010 and 2017. This should be compared with a fee increase of SEK 1,300 for the electricity networks owned by small municipal companies. The question to the Government is: Is it reasonable that ordinary people can get such large increases in prices on their electricity grid?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-272	Madam President, I would like With regard to the question of fairness, I cannot answer it, because this is a result of court rulings. As a minister, I cannot comment on them. On the other hand, I have been very clear that the current system is not working. Customers – we as consumers – have the right to expect electricity to be transferred stable and at reasonable cost. At the same time, companies must have a return in order to make investments and have certain margins. This balance is not in the system today. Therefore, the Government commissioned the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to present proposals for a new system. They have done this now. This proposal has been consulted. I meet both customer representatives and grid companies. My message has been very clear: this system will change. We must have a better balance and a more reasonable development than we have had.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-275	Madam President, I would like The differences in electricity grid charges are large between different parts of the country and, as I have just said, between small and large electricity grid companies. In Borlänge in my home county Dalarna, the electricity grid fee is relatively low – SEK 7,300. But in my municipality of residence Avesta, a few miles away, the fee is SEK 12,100. So there is a difference of 5 000 kroner.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-277	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's it. Sometimes there may be good reasons for that. It can be about where in the country it is, whether it is in town or country, what investments have been needed and what modernisations have been made. I believe that there are many customers today who are frustrated by the fact that they do not really see that there is a link between investments and improvements in the networks on the one hand and charges on the other. That is exactly what the Government's proposal intends to improve, so that we have a tightening up of the system so that this cannot go on as it has done.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-279	Madam President, I would like The Liberals welcome today's announcement from the government to appoint Anders Thornberg as the new Chief Police Officer. But it is clear that the situation within the Police Authority, when there are more vulnerable areas, 1 000 fewer police officers and other tough challenges, is not enough in itself. Strong political reforms are also needed. I heard the Minister of Justice earlier today mention, among other things, that it is important to keep and attract back police officers who have left the authority in recent years. It is also a question that the Liberals have really sought out. I asked the Minister a written question about this a few weeks ago. He referred to the agency now to work on the work environment issue and come back in a year and report back.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-283	Madam President, I would like We will do this by re-recruiting police officers who have left the corps, by ensuring that those who may be thinking about doing something else stay in the corps and by training more. That is the short answer. We need to improve working conditions. I believe that there is a basis for this, among other things, in the new salary agreement concluded between the Police Authority and the Police Federation less than two weeks ago. This means a raise that is significantly above the mark, i.e. that it is above what other groups receive. This means special efforts on police officers in external service. This also means special efforts on police officers in vulnerable areas. In addition, the wage agreement is strong in the sense that a large part of these wage increases take place during the current year. This is one way of improving working conditions. Then, of course, you have to work with career opportunities and with the work environment in general. You can do that because we are now spending more money on Swedish police than we have in 20 years. In this way, we highlight police activities.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-286	Madam President, I would like The political damage to the police policy of the Social Democrats has been seen in your first three years of this term of office. It is only now – 2017 – that you are increasing the number of training places. It is only now that you announce money. But there are 1 000 fewer police officers now during your time as a minister than it was when we handed over power. We had 20,400 police officers. Now it's 19,300. Then there are aspirants. I'm not told how you're going to lure back the police officers who have quit. It's not about the graduates, it's about those who quit.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-288	Madam President, I would like Here you can see the consequences of writing your speeches in advance. In my speech, I had an exposition on the new wage agreement, which means, among other things, better conditions for the police. I think that could mean a lot. Then we have a special task for the police in terms of working conditions. The concern we face is that you trained far too few policemen – only 600 – 700 police officers per year. It takes a few years to train police officers. Now we have doubled this rate of education. We train twice as many policemen as you did in your time.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-290	Madam President, I would like Today we have segregating activities that continue year after year in activities that enjoy authority status but cannot be audited. Tax billions are pumped into the Folkbildningsrådet which is then passed on to the study association Ibn Rushd, for example. Attempts have been made by external persons to review this tax money. But if we believe these sources, it turns out that Swedish tax money is passed on via foundations to directly segregated and anti-democratic activities, such as the Muslim Brotherhood. It is clear that this is the policy of the government. For this reason, I would like to ask Alice Bah Kuhnke if she can develop how the government thought here.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-293	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for the question. Ever since we took office as a government, we have been working to ensure that taxpayers' money does not go to anti-democratic forces. We have done so on the basis of the agreements we have made with the democratic parties in this Parliament. In all areas of support for civil society and for religious communities, we have gone through all the authorities' regulations and directives to ensure that they have the same directive, and we are tough: no money should go to forces that do not work to strengthen our Sweden and that do not work for the democratic principles on which we have built our society.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Of course, it sounds promising if the procedure really takes these problems seriously. But what we see, for example, is that Ibn Rushd has a business plan that is essentially more focused on what we would call a religious community than a study association and that tax money goes to things that they should not go to. When we know that the independent media are now looking into this, does the Minister perhaps want to share something before new news appears?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-297	Madam President, I would like Anna Ekström is responsible for education and education. However, as Minister for Democracy and as part of the Swedish Government, I would like to stress once again the importance of ensuring that the funds – taxpayers' money – that go out to civil society and to society in Sweden, go to things that carry our democracy. That's where we have to be tough. I am extremely critical of the fact that in the past we have not had a common view and have not been hard-core. I am keen that this government will be and has been.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-300	Madam President, I would like We have recently been able to follow the tours around the new film support. Last autumn it was announced that everyone who wants access to production aid will undergo compulsory training in gender equality and norm creativity. The Film Institute has now withdrawn from this, and I will not ask the Minister for Culture and Democracy to comment on the individual case. However, when the state imposes requirements for valuation training in order to have access to public support, we are on a dangerous and sloping level. Recently, we also saw how one of our artistic colleges applied for a professor and where academic qualifications were not enough, but also documented experience of norm critical work was required. The idea goes unapproached to the Green Party's proposal for a cultural policy programme, which stated that there would be a compulsory training effort in intersectionality and post-colonial theories for all boards and staff of our institutions and that quantified diversity targets would be set, with sanctions and consequences if the targets were not achieved. The proposal was put in a grind bag, but my question is whether it is this environmental-partisan programme that we now see being implemented by the back door.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-303	Madam President, I would like In this House and on behalf of the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, it is a beautiful thing to stick to the facts. Olof Lavesson knows very well that the proposal to which he refers and to which the Party Executive of the Environmental Party literally put in the trash did not even reach any kind of reality. However, this gives me the opportunity to emphasise that there is no hidden agenda. There is not even such a program; that proposal was thrown into the trash bin years ago. Now Olof Lavesson has heard it once again, but he may continue to repeat it. Nevertheless, there is a goal for Swedish film, and Olof Lavesson has been involved in adopting it. The goal is very clear: Gender equality and diversity should characterise the film area – end of story. That is what the government has worked out, that is what the Riksdag has adopted and that is what the Swedish Film Institute will work to achieve.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-305	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the Minister's clarity today, and I have heard this before. However, the question is whether you can trust her, because at the same time we heard the Green Party's cultural spokesperson Niclas Malmberg say in Sweden's Television that he did not want to dismiss the programme at all. Instead, he said that a great deal has already been translated into practical policy and that other things need to be worked on in the longer term. This is haunting in the trash, Mrs. Minister of Culture. My supplementary question is, therefore, which environmental party should be trusted – is it the Minister for Culture or the spokesperson for cultural policy?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-307	Madam President, I would like As Minister of Culture and Democracy in the Swedish Government, as a member of the Party Board and as a colleague of the Cultural Policy spokesperson, I can underscore and reassure Olof Lavesson that the Member of Parliament will trust what I say. There is no such program, and there is no hidden agenda. What is black and white, however, is that we have clearly increased artistic freedom in our country.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-308	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Per Bolund my question. We can see that the advertising landscape has changed. Everything is on the internet; we can see it on Facebook, Youtube and in other channels. A problem that exists is hidden advertising where the consumer is not entirely sure whether it is advertising or what it is. It has been possible to see bloggers marketing products that they think are the best product they have ever used, but it may turn out that they have received the product from a company – or even been paid. It is important to know, as a consumer, what is advertising and what is not. If someone has been sponsored with a product, it must be stated. Similarly, we must regulate marketing to children, which is forbidden. My question is: how does the government view these issues?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question, Hillevi Larsson! I do not think it has escaped any of us that the advertising landscape has changed quite radically in recent years. The government has also taken note of this, which is why we have set up an investigation. It has also delivered a proposal, A changing advertising landscape. It was Gunnar Larsson, who was formerly consumer ombudsman, who was responsible for the investigation. It is noted that the legislation does indeed fulfil its role and does not need to be amended. It makes it clear that it should be clear to us consumers whether something is an advertising message. We should know when we are reached by a commercial message compared to, for example, a cultural one. However, it is noted that supervision can be quite difficult. Now we have a very targeted advertising, which is adapted to us as individuals, and then it is quite difficult for the Swedish Consumer Agency, for example, to be there and review what these tools look like. There we are now working to increase the tools for our authorities and for the Swedish Consumer Agency. For example, you should be able to use mystery shopping, where you can, for example, use false names and fingered email addresses – precisely to be in place where advertising reaches consumers.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-314	Madam President, I would like I think that this work is very important because it is increasingly advertising online now, and it reaches not least young people. I think it is an interesting suggestion that one should be able to use a fictitious identity. This may be necessary because advertising is targeted specifically at the individual. Say you're 14 years old and your name is Lisa, for example; you have to be able to finger that. I also think it is good to give the Swedish Consumer Agency resources and tools, because they have shown so far that they are very skilled in this work. So I look forward to it.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-315	Madam President, I would like As I said, we must equip our authorities so that they have the tools they need to protect us as consumers and really be out there where people are reached by the messages. Giving them better regulation to work on is therefore an important issue Then we have also increased the funding for the Swedish Consumer Agency so that it has more resources. We have also strengthened the funding for civil society organisations, so that they too can be out with their tentacles and notice when something goes wrong. Furthermore, we continue to deepen cooperation within the EU between consumer authorities so that cross-border activities can be achieved. We have also given increased legal support to the Swedish Consumer Agency. So we work on many fronts.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-317	Madam President, I would like The task of the Civil Protection and Preparedness Agency is to deal with accidents, crises and various types of disasters. A number of people in the country probably believe that the government has just offered them one in the form of the former chief of police. Dan Eliasson has made himself known among many for, among other things, having deleted millions of emails at Försäkringskassan and prevented or at least delayed the introduction of border controls. He has bought PR services for millions, and he also has dark sexual assaults during festivals and expressed sympathy for women's murderers. In spite of all this, the Minister of Justice of Sweden's first feminist government has confidence in this man. How is that possible, Morgan Johansson?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-319	Madam President, I would like Jonas Millard is dedicated to escalating in the spread of rumors. He comes with both half-truths and completely false stories. I would just like to point out here that I think there is a risk with this: by screwing up rhetoric in this way, we do not really know where we will eventually end up. I have taken note of the melancholy pursuit of Dan Eliasson, which, among others, the Swedish Democrats but actually also some bourgeois parties have engaged in, and I think it is a deep discomfort that one can do so. Politicians can attack politicians, and we will. But politicians should not attack officials or government managers. Firstly, it damages the public administration, and secondly, it is appallingly cowardly to do so. They cannot defend themselves. I would like us to go back to a system in which we are actually more comfortable with the debate.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-322	Madam President, I would like Of course, I would really like to direct my criticism first and foremost to the Government and Government, which chooses to appoint such a person to an authority that is so important and is about to deal with accidents, crises and disasters. Dan Eliasson has made sure that the authority he was head of has failed when it comes to trust, and the development has gone in the wrong direction. Of course, this can be refined, and harsh words can be used. Nevertheless, I think it is important to point out that a person who has clearly proved inappropriate should not have renewed confidence.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-323	Madam President, I would like I think that from time to time we should stop and think about what kind of rhetoric we are using. We should not unleash this rhetoric in every respect. Sometimes we have to take a step back and see what climate of debate we are pushing forward in that case. Dan Eliasson is one of our most experienced government managers. He was recruited to the Migration Board by the bourgeois government – by Tobias Billström, moderate. He was appointed by Ulf Kristersson, also moderate, as Head of Försäkringskassan. He was the most qualified candidate we had when we decided to appoint a new director of MSB.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-326	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Energy and Coordination, because it is of a general political nature. The proposal put forward by the government on profit limitations in welfare causes great concern for many schools and in many municipalities. Municipalities have started to make emergency plans to deal with the consequences of the proposal. I have asked several ministers about the consequences. The answer I have received is that you don't think anyone should have to close. On the other hand, a study has been carried out by Pricewaterhousecoopers, one of the world's most renowned audit firms. They have been counting on this proposal and on the possibilities for companies to survive with the economic reality that it provides. Their calculations show that 80% of the activities could not survive economically under the conditions set out in this proposal.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-331	Madam President, I would like Over the years, I have devoted myself to school policy, not least with regard to regulations for independent schools, and I can see that what Maria Stockhaus is now warning about has happened. The John Bauer Group is the clearest example – a private owner no longer felt that it was possible to make money and therefore closed down. The students and municipalities remained and were supposed to handle the education. We have now lived with this framework for 25 years. There are, of course, advantages – it has given more choice and increased competition and in this way perhaps also ensured that municipal schools have improved. But I don't understand the bourgeois craze to defend the right to take profits out of school. That's not why the school exists, is it? It is there for students, for teachers and for our society to develop. The proposal we are putting forward is not about closing schools, but about ensuring that the money is spent on what it is intended for, namely the education of students.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-335	Madam President, I would like When the Government expresses itself in this way about making profits, I wonder if he has understood what this proposal actually means. It is not a question of making profits, but of making profits within the framework of the company's accounts. If you are to survive long-term and be able to cope with unforeseen expenses, you have to make a profit. If the proposal had been about shareholders picking out dividends and limiting it, the reasoning would be more reasonable. But I still ask: what is the impact and risk analysis that has been done, in view of the fact that many people may find closure possible?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-338	Madam President, I would like I have negotiated with both the Moderates and the previous government in terms of collecting profits. There the attitude was the same – that nothing could be done. With regard to the proposal that now exists, with operational capital and more, the very purpose is for the money to go to train the students. That is what our tax revenue should be spent on. You have to make a certain surplus in order to make that kind of investment, but here the Moderates have clearly chosen the companies over the students.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-342	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Last Saturday was the Holocaust Memorial Day. I, the Prime Minister and many others attended a memorial ceremony at Raoul Wallenberg's place. I also met some representatives from the Jewish minority in Sweden. When you discuss with representatives of the Jewish group, it is very clear that they are very concerned about, for example, their institutions and their school children.
i-FS7LvnyWdAzbiBumPn3aVc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ekström, for the question. Unfortunately, all five of our national minorities, but especially the Jewish minority, are experiencing more and more threats from different groups in our society. Some of the strong efforts we are making – and this is a policy area that we have greatly increased funding for – concerns the possibility of making school school-leaving trips, security-enhancing efforts at cultural buildings and religious sites and having a very close dialogue with Jewish society and representatives of this. However, we are fully aware that much more will have to be done. We need an extremely close dialogue to ensure that what we do has the desired effect.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-348	Madam President, I would like It is also true that two other national minorities of ours are being discussed very much today. One is the vulnerable Roma group. We see the living conditions of this group, which stand out strongly from those which apply to the rest of the population. The second is our indigenous Sami people, with the conditions that this group has. Here, too, strong action is needed to tackle old prejudices and unfair living conditions. What work is going on here?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-352	Madam President, I would like Thanks to the Government's ambitions and priorities as well as a very good cooperation with the Swedish Parliament, where there is a broad consensus on what needs to be done and that we need to do so, we are currently preparing a work involving a Roma centre. This is part of Roma inclusion, where several authorities collaborate – Arbetsförmedlingen, county boards, municipalities and so on. As far as the indigenous Sami are concerned, a number of jobs are also under way.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-354	Madam President, I would like My question is quite simple and requires a fairly simple answer. The question goes to the Minister for Coordination Ibrahim Baylan. Now it has been about two years since Ibrahim Baylan took office as the responsible coordinator to reduce segregation – a superminister, I even think I read in a newspaper. The government has been in office for four years. I have a fairly simple question: Can Ibrahim Baylan mention a place in Sweden where segregation has decreased?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-357	Madam President, I would like When we talk about segregation, of course, it depends on how we define this word. If we are talking about what we have seen in our country in terms of increasing social divides, we have seen this for a long time. It's making it easy for you to just look at these three years. For a long time we have seen lower employment, lower school scores and increased crime in some of our towns. In some parts we now see a turnaround. We also see increased employment in our segregated suburbs. We see that school results have started to turn up. But crime has continued to increase. Above all, this concerns serious crime, not least what we have seen in the form of organised criminal activity. This is why the government has prioritised punitive measures and strong police construction, not least by adding SEK 7 billion.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-362	Madam President, I would like It can be great that segregation or exclusion decreases in one place. But in order for segregation to decrease overall, it is important that it does not increase as much in another place. So I repeat my question: Can Ibrahim Baylan name some places? At least I can name some places where segregation decreased during the bourgeois government. Can Ibrahim Baylan name a place where segregation has decreased during your term of office?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-364	Madam President, I would like I have just mentioned that employment has turned upwards, not least in some of our segregated suburbs. I have also mentioned that school results have started to turn up. I am not as happy with what crime looks like, and that is why we are fighting it vigorously. But to do as Hanif Bali and just look at these three years is to make it a little easy for yourself. You can also turn it around and wonder what you did in all the years that the divides grew under the bourgeois government. You widened the gaps, that's what happened.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-368	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. It is well known that the previous government gave priority to tax cuts over joint efforts. The order is now another. We have a Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, and a Social Democratic-led government that has delivered reform on reform that has made everyday life and the economy better for families with children, employers and students. Another group for whose benefit the government has delivered many good reforms, but which are in need of more, are those who have built up this country – I am talking about our pensioners. Many of the country's pensioners, including my own grandfather Nils-Erik-Erik from Västerås, sit and follow this debate. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government: what measures does the government intend to take for its pensioners in 2018?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-372	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. In politics, we sometimes disagree. This can be heard not least during this Question Time. But often you understand why it is. One of the things I've had very hard to understand over the years is how we tax people in this country. With the previous government, a gap was opened between the taxation of pensions and wages. This kind of difference can also be found in other countries, but then it is almost always to the benefit of pensioners, so not in Sweden. At the end of the last term of office, pensioners paid approximately one thousand more in tax per month than wage earners with comparable income. This has gradually changed. On 1 January 2018, we closed the gap for all pensioners who have pensions up to SEK 17 000. And we will continue, because it is not reasonable to levy more tax on pensioners than on employees.
i-03f296211b8e63f2-375	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is a gratifying reform that will make life better for the country's pensioners. If we look a little beyond the elections this autumn, and if Prime Minister Stefan Löfven once again gets the confidence to lead the Swedish government, what challenges and measures do you see in this area to further improve the situation for the country's pensioners?
i-03f296211b8e63f2-377	Madam President, I would like We are quite clear that we will continue to remove the gap for those with pensions up to SEK 17 000. The goal is that by 2020 tax will be levied on the basis of income, not on the basis of whether you are a pensioner or a wage earner. In addition, we have raised the ceiling in the housing supplement for pensioners. It wouldn't have been raised in ten. We have also doubled the care allowance for everyone over the age of 65. The point of this, Madam President, is that it matters how you vote in the elections. Pensioners can rely on Stefan Löfven to continue to pursue a policy that is positive for them.
