i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-6	Mr President, I would like to When the Swedish National Audit Office presented its review report Why do universities save? "A review of government capital at universities and colleges attracted a lot of attention. Between 2007 and 2016, government capital had increased by SEK 7.6 billion. At the turn of the year 2016/ 17, state universities and higher education institutions had a total government capital of SEK 12.3 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion was that the construction of the public authority capital of higher education institutions at the total level is not compatible with the efficient use of resources from a state financial perspective. Why do higher education institutions save? That's a legitimate question. At the same time, the issue of public authority capital in higher education institutions is quite complex. The possibility of saving surplus capital in the form of government capital differs from other government agencies. The development of government capital also looks a little different when we compare between universities. We can also note that the increase has also stopped at many higher education institutions in recent years. Nevertheless, government capital is historically high, both in absolute terms and in relation to turnover. The Swedish National Audit Office itself writes that a certain economic buffer is natural. The problem is when this economic buffer becomes remarkably large. The public capital derives from two different allocations: (d) the grant relating to first and second cycle education and (d) the grant relating to research and doctoral education. I must admit that I reacted in particular to the fact that almost half of the total government capital comes from basic and advanced education. As an education politician, I often get comments on the lack of money for basic and advanced education, but it is a bit of a bad rhyme with a reasonably large saved capital. The issue of quality in teaching also relates to the existence of large saved capital. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of government capital at our universities is welcome. It contributes to an in-depth picture of the development of government capital over the period and leads to a constructive debate on how tax funds are used effectively. Of course, large unused resources are not good from an efficiency and quality perspective. It can reduce confidence in the higher education sector as a whole. Now, however, it should be said that there are universities that have made conscious decisions about how to use these saved funds. That, of course, is good. There are some different explanations for how government capital has grown, as the Swedish National Audit Office reports. In its letter, the Government points to a further explanation that is well worth taking note of. It is important to give universities and higher education institutions stable and long-term prospects. When the former bourgeois government temporarily increased the number of higher education places for two years and relocated places between higher education institutions, this brought particular challenges to the higher education management. It became difficult to quickly scale up your business over two years, and you felt the need to have an economic buffer. Therefore, it is good that the current government does not follow the same line, but adds more higher education places permanently. Mr President, I would like to A Joint Training Committee agrees with the Government's assessment of the measures that need to be taken in relation to the review report. The committee shares the Swedish Government's and the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the governance and follow-up of government capital at universities and higher education institutions need to be clarified, especially with regard to the government capital that has been generated in primary and advanced education. The committee welcomes the Government's intention to inform the Riksdag about the development of government capital more regularly and within the framework of the Budget Bill's performance report. Furthermore, the committee supports the measures already initiated by the government, which aim, among other things, to make it easier for the government to monitor the development of government capital as well as measures to strengthen the follow-up of early investments in more training places and increased quality. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-14	Mr President, I would like to In order to facilitate understanding of what we are discussing, perhaps we should briefly state that government capital is something that arises when universities and colleges cannot spend all the money they receive from the state, that is, the annual funding. As the previous speaker has said, the title of the Swedish National Audit Office's report Why do universities save? Given that it is 31 universities with completely different activities that have been reviewed, we may not get an unambiguous answer. In general terms, the answer to the question is that it is a question of finding a buffer for unforeseen events or expenditure and of making strategic choices for the future. When the bourgeois parties decommissioned the Social Democrats' collectivist employee funds in the early 1990s, you know those that the then Finance Minister Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt was resold about – Löttagarfond is a piece of shit/ But now we have baffled them all the way here – became both Chalmers and Jönköping University foundations. A large capital was transferred, and this gave higher education institutions, among other things, an opportunity to own real estate. But it also meant that they had access to a buffer and a willingness to make strategic investments that they found important for the future. The other 31 state universities have been allowed to continue working on other budget premises. This is probably one reason why government capital has reached the high level it has today, that is, about SEK 12.3 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report that many universities had major financial problems in the middle of the last decade, i.e. around 2005. This led to the realization of these different universities that they had to have a buffer. Otherwise, they could not handle changes in state grants, varying student demand – it is not certain that all students always apply to the same programmes that are offered – and uncertainty about the level of external grants for research. This explanation matches representatives of the Ministry of Education into. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that this is a reasonable explanation, not least because the level of government capital has remained relatively stable since 2010. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that this is a sign that the universities no longer see a great need for further construction. The report highlights other aspects related to the level of government capital. Previous analyses have focused mainly on research, and there has been some understanding of the need for additional capital to be available. However, this report shows that the educational side also accounts for a large surplus. It is therefore a total of SEK 5.4 billion, which represents just under 44 percent of the total. That, of course, is not good. According to the report, the problem may not be due to what my colleague Thomas Strand presented here earlier, but one can see that a major problem for higher education institutions is about difficulties in recruiting staff and that the students do not ask for the exact courses you expect. This means that the political initiatives we make on certain education programmes, such as the large expansion of new places in teacher education in recent years and some health care programmes, make it difficult for universities to recruit teachers and increase the number of students. This in turn leads to education programmes that are never started or that attract fewer students than it was intended to increase the size of government capital. This is something that we politicians must take to heart. We must realise that it is not just a matter of quantitatively laying out new places in the belief that it will lead to more graduates, but there are many obstacles along the way before we can see the number of new engineers, teachers and specialist nurses increasing. Mr President, I would like to As the report shows, in the Alliance – the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats – we have not put forward a proposal of our own in response to the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office. However, we will carefully study it and also the results of the government's actions in view of future discussions in, for example, the S tyr and resource investigation.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-24	Mr President, I would like to We have no request other than the committee on this issue, but the report from the National Audit Office may be worth saying a few words about. I think there'll be some repetitions. Accumulation of unspent capital at our universities is not a new phenomenon. I have read reports about this before – I think I even read it from the Swedish National Audit Office. Is that a problem? Yes, the size of unexploited capital is so extensive that you wonder if some universities actually get too much money. The total public authority capital in 2017 was SEK 12.3 billion. It is a very large sum, and most of this capital comes from the funding of appropriations – not the whole amount, but most of it. The funding for grants is thus the grants that the universities receive from the state, and that is the overwhelming part of the accumulated capital. The total amount paid out to our universities in 2016 was SEK 44.4 billion. It shall then be related to the accumulated capital of over SEK 12 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the total government capital is at a historically high level. That is the question here. As the other speakers mentioned, it is natural for universities to accumulate a certain amount of capital. It could be a buffer for the future, the possibility of paying wages, long-term services and so on. But what the Swedish National Audit Office is talking about is that today this capital is very large. As the Swedish National Audit Office notes and we all seem to agree, it is important that both the Government and the Riksdag are regularly informed about the development of unspent capital – which does not happen, according to this report. In any case, stricter control of this capital is needed at our universities. In extreme cases, the government can actually withdraw capital from higher education institutions or perhaps rather redistribute it to where it is needed at its best. Thomas Strand was aware that some universities complain that they have too little money at undergraduate and advanced level. Well, there's an opportunity to simply reallocate the money. In fact, they did once in the '90s. Instead of simply providing more funds at a higher education institution, capital could simply be redistributed. Basically, it is mainly taxpayers' money. But I guess it only happens in extreme cases. In any case, as all previous speakers have said, better governance and monitoring of accumulated capital is needed.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-30	Mr President, I would like to Hydropower is a valuable asset and plays a central role in the supply of electricity in Sweden. It contributes to a competitive, low-emission energy system and secure supply of electrical energy. Today there are some 1,900 small hydroelectric plants in the country. Most are old cultural environments, many with centuries-old – sometimes thousand-year-old – roots, often from the Middle Ages. Many communities and cities have developed around the use of hydropower. Small hydropower has a total value of SEK 25 billion and contributes about 4,000 jobs. The socio-economic value of production is significant – between SEK 4 billion and SEK 5 billion each year. Small-scale hydropower thus has a long and deeply rooted tradition in the emergence of Swedish industry, and small-scale hydropower is extremely important for rural areas, property rights and Sweden as a whole. This must, of course, be protected. As part of the 2016 Energy Agreement, proposals are now being made for new legislation on hydropower and other water activities, precisely to safeguard its long-term prospects and give it a legal status that has not existed before. This is positive, and the Moderates support the adoption of the bill. The amendment, the motivational reservation, tabled in the Civil Committee by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, and subsequently also supported by the SD, deals with crucial and very important clarifications of three concepts: older rights, social activities and the concept of endangerment. The intention is to emphasise and above all, Mr President, to clarify the political purpose of the proposal. I want to go through these concepts in particular. In the case of older rights, they shall be deemed to be notified on the basis of the corresponding provisions of the Environmental Code. The design and operation covered by the earlier right shall be legally protected against new charges. It is important, Mr President, that the rules on legal force be clearly regulated, and it is therefore good that it is now explicitly regulated that special older rights should be regarded as having legal force. Without this regulation, activities would have been put at risk. This clarification means, Mr President, that the right to carry out an activity which today differs from the terms of a privilege letter, such as a mill with a generator, should be able to have legal force even if changes have been made to the technology used by the operation. The determining factor shall not be whether the technology used by the activity differs from the technology originally used but whether the activity can be considered to be conducted in accordance with so-called ‘older rights'. With regard to this particular part, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have also recognised, after much discussion, that there has been a need to clarify. On the other hand, unfortunately, we do not agree on clarifications regarding small hydro power as a social benefit and the concept of compromise. In this context, Mr President, I would like to point out that the Green Party does not have any preference for interpretation of an energy agreement between five parties, even though it sometimes gives that impression itself. Our proposal to clarify the concept of socially useful activities concerns the development of government guidance material on the question of what types of activities can be considered as socially beneficial. An important starting point should be that small-scale hydropower can be considered as socially beneficial activities. Our third, last and, indeed, absolutely decisive clarification is that there should be no doubt as to what makes it possible for an adventure to be interpreted as meaning, for example, that a water treatment plant must not be extended or, which is particularly important for us in the Committee on Civil Liberties, that housing development should be jeopardised. For us, it was therefore important that movements within a quality factor should never be considered an adventure in themselves. Nor should there be any ambiguity as to whether the agreement includes a solution without double-checking. We would also like to make it clear in our reservation that the concept of compromising is not the same as changing an activity. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 5.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-42	Mr President, I would like to The first people who moved to the Nordic countries came here over water. They settled and formed social structures where they could feed on hunting, fishing and eventually farming. Gradually, they learned to use nature's own kinetic energy, such as the winds and, above all, the movements of water, for various purposes: to stifle them to submerge them and to cultivate. What was cultivated could then be ground down to bread, first with handpower and with the help of pets that drove the millstones and then with simple mill wheels, so-called broom mills, that there are plenty of leftovers in the landscape. Yes, you know this whole story of how Sweden went from being ice-covered and inhospitable to being populated by our earliest inhabitants from the Caucasus and Africa. From being hunters and collectors, the people became farmers, who were eventually christened and organized in congregations and village teams and on into a strong hierarchical and oppressive power, who sent from the port cities armadors of ships with armies into various wars. The ships were built of sawn wood, with nails forged of iron. The wheels were shoveled with iron straps. Railways and steel ships contributed to the trade and transport of goods and then people in an emigration of poor, hungry and melancholy maids and farmhands to North America, even from our coastal towns. After that came an industrial revolution that gave wealth and satisfied stomachs to more but which required energy in the form of electricity – everything springed from nature's own kinetic energy: the wind and water, and also the sun. Then, unfortunately, came the coal, the oil and the uranium. I did not come to the speaker's chair to hold a history lesson; neither am I competent. On the other hand, countries have given thought to the fact that we have now become so modern that the only place where we no longer allow people to settle is where we thrive best, the water, and that we are now discussing here the requirements that should have been made 1,000 years ago, if we had known about them when they started grinding grain into bread and melted down the ore to forge iron into nails, hobs and railway tracks. Small-scale hydropower, which we are talking about, has gradually become more large-scale, and with modern electricity networks it is possible to transport electricity from one country to another. This was not the case in the past, when the energy was used locally to be used locally. The electricity grids are one of the most important things we have to defend in times of conflict. Now that the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness goes out and tells us what we should have in our pantry and that we should have batteries at home so that we can listen to the radio, it would be equally important to ensure that we can keep electricity production going in order to cope with our water supply when the large plants and networks are knocked out, and for food production, light and heat if the war comes. The importance of hydropower is therefore central to regulating and storing production, while the sun and wind vary according to weather. Many owners of small-scale hydropower that I have met look after their facilities, rebuild, modernise and make them more efficient. It is small businessmen and enthusiasts with small resources but a lot of knowledge and commitment, who often think they are doing a cultural act, representing a social benefit and at the same time having fun. However, water activities have had a significant environmental impact that was not known at the time, and it was not always considered to be something that needed to be addressed. We have the recreational fisheries and nature conservation associations to thank for the fact that this has been highlighted in recent times. As the demands for testing have come, we have made it possible to restore hiking routes in cooperation with fishing and nature conservation if the natural conditions for fish migration have existed. Whether it has been so can of course be difficult to prove, but the starting point should be that it is always possible. As part of the Energy Agreement, legislation is now being proposed that is the basis for review and provides the conditions for the measures resulting from the modern authorisation of a water business. The Center Party supports that legal text. We believe that, as far as possible and reasonably speaking, the energy agreement balances the interests of promoting small-scale renewable electricity supply and does not jeopardise water quality in such a way that Sweden does not live up to the EU Water Framework Directive and the practice set up by the so-called Weser judgment. As always in a negotiation where different interests are to be weighed against each other, there will be many who feel disgruntled, perhaps because they would have preferred to see the destruction of all water activities, including those that exist with the support of old permits and ancient history. Many of those who run small hydro power today would probably have wanted an even simpler regulatory framework. Perhaps a few would not like to see a regulatory framework at all, but would have liked to see that, without any effort or financial effort, it would have been possible to continue just as before. The group that is satisfied is certainly extremely limited, and one should have respect for the fact that there will be opinions on our decision. That is why we in the Center Party want to press in particular for the law to be evaluated early, within 18 months, and for such an evaluation to lead to changes if it turns out that the trials are carried out in such a way that they are administratively and financially unnecessarily burdensome for those who are going through them. The very concept of endangerment has been discussed. We see a risk that it is used in such a way that any small change in water levels in a pond, a restoration of a turbine or another upgrade, is taken to revenue to claim that water quality is at risk. That is why we in the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats – the alliance parties behind the energy agreement with the Social Democrats and the Green Party – want to emphasise what it means, so that it is only when a water is at risk of having a changed classification that a review may be brought up to date. As Mats Green said, it is very important that this is clarified. We would also like to emphasise, precisely in view of the local importance for the area and, most importantly, the need for generation capacity for electricity in a crisis situation, that small-scale hydropower is a social activity. With this, I support the reservation of reasons, reservation 5. Building on farmland is something that arouses emotions. It is often difficult to build outside urban areas. This is often linked to financing and low property values. In this respect, the abolition of general beach protection, as proposed by the Center Party, would make it much easier. You have to respect a landowner's right to decide for yourself whether you want to build your land or use it. It should be better to use it from a long-term economic perspective, but unfortunately this is not the reality for the green industries today. This is another debate, but it is worth remembering when we weigh the need for housing and rural development that includes building towards continued agricultural operation and building on arable land. Another issue in which we have also committed ourselves is the need for regulatory simplification of common local solutions for drinking water supply and sewage. It is extremely gratifying that the government's investigators have now concluded that there are shortcomings in the current system of municipal monopolies that put obstacles in the way of rural development and the growth of localities on the margins of the municipal va-net. Finally, water is our most important food. Traveling on water has historically been the safest, fastest and easiest way to transport yourself. Water has become a prerequisite for the prosperity built up by industrialisation. It has come to receive its price from the environmental and human health aspects that are essential to life. Now we see a water shortage in our country, but it is nothing compared to what it is like where constant drought prevails. Poisons in the water are stored in food chains, and plastics pollute the oceans. It is my hope and that of the Center Party that we will learn to house the water and to use it in a way that is sustainable and that the biodiversity we have had in the watercourses can be restored and preserved. My requests for approval today concern the Motivation Reserve 5, from the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, and reservation 16 on public water services.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-58	Mr President, I would like to Finally, we have this important debate on the environmental requirements we are going to impose on hydropower in Sweden! The question has been investigated, supported and wet. It has been down in Brussels and turned a number of times. Hydropower is a very important energy source. It produces 60 - 70 terawatt hours of electricity each year. Hydropower is also important in that we can regulate when electricity is produced because the water is collected in large warehouses and ponds. This also means that hydropower has a reverse effect, namely the major negative impact it has on the environment and on biodiversity as a whole. Today, we know that only 2 of our 16 environmental quality objectives will be achieved by 2020. I would like to remind you that Living lakes and rivers are one of the 16 environmental quality objectives. A rich animal and plant life is another environmental quality objective that will not be achieved. Then there is the whole EU framework directive on water, which is to be achieved in less than ten years in Sweden. It is therefore urgent to introduce modern permits for hydroelectric power in Sweden. The permits that exist today go back 100 years, to a very old water law. The vast majority of the dams and facilities in Sweden do not have modern permits. That is why we in the Left Party think it is good that this bill should be tabled, but we have quite a few objections. We think that the bill could have been much better. Some of the objections we have I will focus on in my speech. I would like to take this opportunity to support the Left Party's Amendment No 6. At the same time, of course, we support all our reservations. With the proposal now put forward by the government and with the proposal contained in the report, only the electricity-producing plants are covered. That's about 2,000 plants. There are another 7 000 – 8 000 dams around Sweden that have a major negative impact on the environment and biodiversity. This proposal legalises these dams. There were many of us who hoped that all the ponds in Sweden would have modern permits and that we could also demand that ponds be torn up in order for us to get freer flows of water. This proposal refers to ancient and privileged letters. In one stroke of the pen, thousands of dams are legalized without any environmental requirements being imposed on them at all. I find it very strange that the Green Party and the Social Democrats, together with Moderates, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats, can put forward such a proposal. A further restriction on the environment – the whole desire for energy production that is socio-economically rational – is that the so-called boating rule be removed. The boating rule says a little simplistically that only hydro power plants that are socio-economically motivated should be authorised. I note that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, a number of environmental organisations and lawyers criticise the fact that the government, together with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Center Party are now removing the boating rule. This means that it is even more difficult to assert the environment and to make reasonable demands on hydropower production in Sweden. The authorisations to be granted are now proposed to have a maturity of 40 years. It's a very long time-- it's about as long as I've lived. And 40 years is much longer than what the government originally proposed in its memorandum. I would like to ask the ocial democrats and environmentalists in particular: why should we have as long maturities as 40 years in this authorisation procedure? Could it not be that a great deal is happening in these 40 years that actually affect the environment and that it may then be justified to apply for a new, modern permit? Then we come to the fund, which will be capitalised with SEK 10 billion and financed by the eight largest hydropower producers in Sweden: Vattenfall, Eon, Statkraft, Fortum and so on. The purpose of the Fund shall be to contribute to projects to restore biodiversity in hydropower production. But there is also the possibility of providing compensation to hydroelectric producers from the funds of this fund. I think it is a good idea for producers to finance the ecological transition, if we say so, or the efforts to increase biodiversity. However, this proposal for a fund is something that harms. In particular, it concerns the financing of the fund. We all know that this whole proposal goes back to the Energy Agreement, which was concluded by the same parties as I mentioned: the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and most bourgeois parties. In that energy agreement, there was a drastic reduction in the property tax on hydropower production – a reduction of approximately SEK 3.5 billion each year. The fund will run for a very long time, 20 years, and have SEK 10 billion. Anyone who can make a simple calculation sees that there will be very good clutter in the cash register for the big energy companies. Nor can we make any clear demands on the action that the Fund is to take, given that the Fund has the design that you have chosen to give it. On the other hand, the large energy companies that finance the fund do. They have made counter-claims and said that the environmental measures to be taken must affect production by a maximum of 2.3%. Production is thus allocated according to the environment and biodiversity. I find that very strange. For example, what does the Green Party think about this? Mr President, I would like to The government is now proposing that, when developing environmental quality standards and making biodiversity status classifications in hydropower activities, the EU's minimum level in the WFD should be applied. One should be able to make use of the exception that exists, where one simply takes a lower level of environmental protection. Yes, it is the lowest possible environmental consideration to be used when issuing EQS and doing status classifications. Why should you go to the lowest environmental level? I would like to ask the government parties and the bourgeois parties that support this proposal. We know that living water is important to an incredible number of us humans. I mentioned biodiversity and our environmental objectives. But we do have the whole recreational fishing, the tourism industry and a variety of activities that spend far more money than what was previously presented by the Moderates here. I wonder: who has looked after their interests in this proposal? This is a proposal that unilaterally weighs the interests of the major power companies. I understand that Moderates and center parties are very pleased with the proposal. But how can environmentalists be? It's a mystery to me. Mr President, I would like to I see that my speaking time is running out. I would just like to end by mentioning reservation 13 by the Left Party, which is that we believe that drinking water and groundwater should be national interests. Today, our fresh water resources are under great strain. In many places around our country we see conflicts between access to clean water and other interests. I am thinking, for example, of Vättern, which is one of our largest drinking water supplies, where the defense now wants to expand its practice activities, fly more, shoot more and so on. There are also large mining companies that want to build mines around Vättern. Here I think that we simply need to be able to stand up for clean water and that it should be superior to these exploitation plans or the defence's desire to shoot and pan more. We are addressing this in reservation 13, which, of course, I support. I apologise for exceeding speaking time, Mr President.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-80	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Jens Holm for his speech. I probably did not agree with much of what he said, but I think it was a good thing, because it makes clear what kind of reality would have happened if we had not had the energy deal. That is why the energy settlement is good, and that is why the energy settlement is needed. Jens Holm brings up not only the 1 900 small hydroelectric power plants that I touched on, but also the 7 000 – 8 000 dams. That is quite correct. I can sometimes resist the discussion that exists, where people talk about restoring. If I'm going to harden it a little bit, I wonder, do you want to reset to the pre-weaning time? You talk about ecological values. That is absolutely the case. But that is something that has also been our entry into the energy settlement. Is anyone able to say that the 7 000 - 8,000 dams are dead ecologically? No, of course not, Mr President. It's just the opposite. They have in turn given rise to new ecosystems of their own. And again, they have been around most of the time since the Middle Ages. I think it's very important to take it with you. But what is particularly good about the energy agreement is that we now have broad political agreement that we should give all these activities legal force and a legal status that they have not had before. What these activities need, Mr President, are long-term and good conditions instead of, as is the case today, uncertainty, which does not benefit anyone.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-84	Mr President, I would like to At the risk of being insinuant-- I don't want to be-- I want to ask the Moderates: Is biodiversity important to you? Is it important for you that we reach all our 16 environmental goals, where A rich plant and animal life is one and where Living lakes and streams are another? If you take these issues seriously, Mats Green, perhaps you should say something about how we can obtain modern permits for all the interventions that have been made from water activities in our country. At the very least, I think that we should not legalise the 7 000 dams, as we are doing today, in a stroke of the pen, and refer to old letters of privilege. Maybe it's the policy of the Moderates, because it sounds very conservative. Of course, those who pay for it are all fishermen, the tourism industry, everyone who likes to be out in our nature and, in particular, our animals and our plant life. In the settlement that the Moderates are involved in, there is a fund that aims to restore biodiversity. But how is it that this fund is restricted so that it cannot take sufficient action? And why is it that the fund is actually completely underfunded – SEK 10 billion in 20 years? Do the Moderates and Mats Green really believe that this will be enough to restore the dammed watercourses that we have in Sweden today and create great biodiversity?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-87	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Fund is concerned, it is based on estimates of a planned loss of production. The calculations have been made by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, so it is not something that has been taken out of the air. Once again, I would like to put a big question mark on the reasoning of the Left Party. But that is good, because it shows very clearly what vision would have been if we had not had the energy deal. Again, don't say that all these ponds and small hydroelectric plants are dead ecologically! It is precisely the opposite, Mr President. To start from a vision where everything outside the big cities should be like a large Skansen museum that should only be, that should not be touched and that we who live there should not be able to feed on is of course completely unreasonable and seems very strange to those of us who do not live in big cities. For example, I live in Gränna, right next to Vättern, which Jens Holm touched earlier. Talking about restoring businesses that have been there for perhaps 1,000 years is, of course, completely unreasonable. On the contrary, this is a proposal that balances ecological considerations with an activity that is important for rural areas, for property rights and for Sweden from an environmental perspective and from a rural perspective. The fundamentalist view of the Left Party that everything that man has devoted himself to for nearly 1,000 years is to be torn out and demolished is quite unreasonable – it goes without saying.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-91	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not really get an answer to my questions, but Mats Green's comments speak quite a lot for themselves. What I said in my speech is that we want modern permits for all dams in Sweden. Here we are talking about 7 000 – 8 000 dams that with this deal are legalized in a pen stroke. As Mats Green says, some of these ponds may have existed for hundreds, or even thousands, of years and have great biodiversity. There can be great benefit, and that is the kind of balance that is being made in the permit process. But to say in a pen stroke that 7 000 ponds in Sweden means a huge biodiversity is really to betray the environment. It is also to betray the salmon, the sea trout, the grayling and the eel – all the fish that wander in our rivers and streams but that now crumble and become minced meat in large turbines or that cannot walk because here stands a pond for several hundred years, and Mats Green thinks that is great. That is the great betrayal. I miss the fishermen's voice in the debate, so I try to be that voice.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-95	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by calling for approval, as I do today: I am in favour of Amendment No 15 by the Liberals, which deals with proposals for measures relating to beach erosion. It is an important issue, but it is not, after all, the main issue of the day. Instead, it is about the proposal for a water environment and hydroelectric power etc., which is based on the energy agreement between five parties where the Liberals are not involved, something that can be pointed out at the beginning. We have therefore chosen, in a separate opinion, to describe our starting points on this issue. In general, the Liberals think that the energy agreement is expensive and bad for Sweden and Swedish competitiveness. We believe that well-functioning electricity and energy markets should be driven by technological development and cost-effective solutions, not by subsidies and subsidies. All forms of fossil-free electricity generation are welcomed, but the expansion will be driven by the market and built when needed and where it is needed. But it is another debate that we have already had. Nevertheless, I note that there are slightly different opinions on how to interpret this energy agreement. Mr President, I would like to However, with regard specifically to the bill on permit granting in water operations that we are discussing today, we welcome the bill, as it essentially meets the Riksdag's announcement to the Government from spring 2016. In particular, the Liberals were driven, and the announcement is largely based on a liberal motion that was endorsed in this context. We can also note, as in the past in the debate, that hydropower has a key role in Swedish electricity production, both because it is renewable and because it is an important factor when it comes to balancing and regulating power in relation to other renewable electricity generation, such as wind and solar energy, which is not as continuously safe as hydropower. Mr President, I would like to We must also be aware that there is, of course, a major conflict of objectives between hydropower and the local environmental impact it causes, and this is really about how authorisation is to take place. It is a matter of loss of biodiversity, and in turn it will conflict with other economic interests in the tourism and tourism sectors, for example, where perhaps sport fishing is one of the most obvious examples in this context. In addition, I can mention that cultural memory care is also a factor. There is talk of many years of facilities here, and it is clear that there is a great deal of cultural memory in this that needs to be taken into account. These are balances that are often very complicated. From the Liberals, however, we think it is very reasonable that all authorised water activities should have modern permits according to the environmental code and associated relevant and reasonable environmental conditions. It is basically a question of taking the environmental measures that are feasible and that do not have unreasonable consequences for electricity generation. Of course, what these measures are can vary greatly. When it comes to hydroelectric power in general, we believe that it should be developed through efficiency improvements and not through increased exploitation. It is important, as stated, that the four national rivers should be protected from expansion as well as that the rest of the legally protected watercourses, streams, rivers and other smaller watercourses should not be exploited. With regard to the reasonable environmental measures for greening the hydropower that I am talking about here, they should be able to take place gradually over time. Maybe it won't happen overnight. Priority should be given to actions where there is the greatest potential to achieve high environmental benefits with relatively limited measures. It is being discussed that large-scale hydroelectric power would be released in some way, but that should definitely not be the case. Of course, environmental measures should be available in both large-scale and small-scale hydropower. It is often about fish migration routes, but also the restoration of flowing water can be an important element where possible. Linked to this, we would like to highlight the previous discussion about the dams and other migration barriers that exist and are not linked to electricity generation. They should be involved in the work so that you can find places where it is possible to restore flowing water without the loss of either electricity production or cultural memories. We think it is important that it is included in the discussion. Throughout this process, it has been very important for the Liberals that we work on the flexibility of permit processes and can be adapted so that owners of small hydropower do not incur unreasonable costs during re-evaluations. After all, there has been a situation in which the costs of the process have been so great that, although environmental measures could be taken that would make things much better, they are being abandoned because of economic factors. One can also put it this way: Permit processes should be so effective that the focus can be placed on the environmental measures themselves and not on long, complicated processes. Liberals are in favour of funding through the industry-wide fund. I may think it seems a rather good solution that the industry takes a joint, collective responsibility for the financing of this. It will be very different where the cost will fall out. I would like to agree with what Ola Johansson said about the fact that evaluation is, of course, very important. When you change legislation, you do not really know how it will be handled in legal proceedings and elsewhere. An evaluation is therefore very important, so that we actually end up where we have been thinking politically. I would also like to point out that I think it is good that the relationship with EU law has been clarified in this process. Mr President, I would like to Now for something completely different. It concerns the reservation that I mentioned at the beginning, which is about beach erosion. The impact of climate change on the seas will accelerate the development that is now underway in terms of beach erosion, not least in southern Sweden and Skåne. From the Liberals' side, we believe that the state, in collaboration with the municipalities, should take greater responsibility through an active coastal policy based on research and knowledge. We have also prioritised this work in our draft budget earlier in the parliamentary year through an appropriation of 20 million.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-114	Mr President, I would like to Neither the Liberals nor the Left Party are behind the so-called energy agreement on which this proposal is based. I very much sympathise with what Lars Tysklind said in his speech. There is a great deal to be desired from the proposal that has been tabled. He is quite right about one thing that Lars Tysklind said, which is about the additional dams that are not covered by the proposal. If I understood Lars Tysklind correctly, he said that it is very important that measures can be taken to restore and create biodiversity in these dams. The problem with this proposal is that all these old dams, which have a very large impact on biodiversity, are legalised with a pen stroke, but have a very small social benefit and environmental benefit overall. Reference is made to ancient and privileged letters. These dams should be considered to have been created as if there were a modern environmental condition. Where in this proposal does Lars Tysklind see that these thousands of dams are required to meet the requirements of the WFD, the requirements of our environmental objectives and other requirements that we should reasonably be able to impose on them?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-118	Mr President, I would like to To answer the last question, I do not really think that these dams are being treated at all, but they are being left aside in this context. When it comes to the dams that are being legalised and linked not least to electricity generation, I see it as creating a kind of detour; one should assume that one cleans the table, so to speak. It is said, however, that they have been added, as with other permits, according to the legislation that existed before. This does not mean that they should not have modern permits according to the environmental code. What I can be concerned about, which the financing solution does not cover, is who takes responsibility for reviewing these dams. There are quite a few of them. Many have cultural memory value, but many have no real value for production or as a cultural memory. It should probably have been almost the easiest to come up with if you want to create biodiversity. Of course, other biodiversity has been created over time, and it must always be balanced against this. However, the shortage in Swedish watercourses is, after all, flowing water. A certain focus must be put on this, and it must weigh heavily in the balances that are being made.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-121	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree that the great shortage today is flowing water. I also agree with Lars Tysklind's criticism of the fund; we do not know what this fund will actually do in the future. I believe, however, that Lars Tysklind is wrong about these dams. They are considered to be authorised because they have existed on the basis of an ancient tradition or because they have privilege letters. Then they are considered legal, and thus no environmental testing is carried out on them. Or am I the one who misunderstood this, Lars Tysklind? How do you mean to do an environmental test when making the assessment that they are legal? This is, of course, a huge missed opportunity to get the thousands of dams that produce nothing.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-124	Mr President, I would like to It feels like we have read this in different ways. It may be that I'm wrong or that Jens Holm is wrong. We'll figure that out, won't we? Or maybe someone else can sort it out for us? Even small-scale hydroelectric plants are legally licensed, but these are not according to the environmental code. From the Liberals' side, we are clear that it is highly reasonable that all water activities have permits under the Environmental Code and that the relevant environmental requirements and conditions that can be considered reasonable in this context apply. D o these ponds should not have any kind of sour cream and only be allowed to remain. As I have read, they have the same requirements as everyone else regarding obtaining permits according to the environmental code; they do not have this automatically.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-127	Mr President, I would like to We have worked on this proposal for a long time. I say we are saying because it is on the basis of the energy agreement that the Christian Democrats were also involved in deciding quite exactly two years ago. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party were particularly pleased that we, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, were able to have a sentence that makes us actually stand here today and have an opportunity to improve life – we hope – for water activities in general and especially for small-scale hydropower. Swedish hydropower must have modern environmental requirements. I haven't heard anyone who's against it. But in recent years the trials have looked very different across the country. We have seen how persistent officials on county boards and authorities in general have been very, very, very much, to use a modern expression, to get as strong environmental requirements as possible to go through. The important thing in the sense that I mentioned in the agreement is that the trials should be carried out in such a way that they do not become unduly administrative or financially burdensome. It has been our guiding principle that the trials being carried out should be fair and equal, as equal as possible, for similar activities across the country. It is also important that we cannot make any unreasonable demands on various types of water activities that have actually existed, as several colleagues here have said before, for hundreds of years. If Jens Holm from the Left Party wants to be the voice of the fishermen, I would like to be the voice of the people – a voice for the rural entrepreneurs, who depend on functioning hydro power and whom we alliance parties, including the Liberals in this case, dare to say contributes to a huge part of the social benefit of not least small-scale hydropower. We have all received a brochure in the mailbox, whether the crisis or the war is coming. What do we need? We need access to electricity. We need access to local energy systems that enable us to have functioning smaller communities where you can directly connect to your own electricity systems. This, too, has been a guiding principle for me and for us. It is also about our legislation meeting the requirements of EU law – we know that it has been around for quite some time and that we need to get to grips with harmonisation – and at the same time to look at the big companies, the small hydropower owners and everything in between. I dare say, together with my colleagues in the implementation group of the agreement, that this has been the most legal burden we have had to deal with, precisely because of the harmonisation of EU and Swedish legislation. There should be no doubt about the intention that we have had with the bill, that we should meet the objective in the sense of the agreement that it should not be unnecessarily administrative or financially burdensome. That is why, Mr President, the motivational reservation that we have in the report and which Mats Green so exemplaryly spoke of at the beginning of the debate is so important. It is also important for me as a Christian Democrat to point out that monitoring legislation is always good, especially if it is legislation that has been preceded by so much discussion and different opinions. Then it is all the more important to have a control post where we say: now we have to evaluate the legislation. What do hydropower owners and practitioners say about the legislation? Does it work or doesn't it work? Then we as politicians must also be prepared to reconsider the law. Of course, we should always be, but perhaps especially on such an issue that affects so many people personally. It may be family businesses in rural areas that have rightly felt vulnerable by various authorities and found the demands so unreasonable that it is just as good to close down. None of us really want this. We want there to be companies throughout Sweden and the whole countryside to live. We want active family businesses. We want to see companies taken over for generations, that rural areas live. Again, no one should miss the intention we have had. And we have really emphasised and stressed the importance of monitoring the legislation, regardless of who will be in the government and parliament after the elections.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-137	Mr President, I would like to This report contains many questions, but I intend to focus on the proposal supported by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in its report. There are those who say that it has been working for three decades on the issue of the aquatic environment and hydropower that we are now going to decide on. It may be true-- I haven't been able to control it. But what I know is true is that the Water Activity Investigation, which started the process that is finally being debated today and which will lead to decisions tomorrow, was set up in 1998, that is to say 20 years ago. It is therefore a bit historic that we are standing here today with a proposal for a decision that has a very broad parliamentary base. The fact that it has taken such time to come forward on this issue is, of course, due to the fact that there are many benefits and interests to be weighed against each other: an environmental benefit against another environmental benefit, the public's responsibility for water against the individual's ownership and economic benefit to one against economic benefit to the other as well as to the general. I believe that with this proposal we have found a reasonable way forward. The starting points of the proposals in the proposal are three: the energy agreement between S, MP, M, C and KD, the clear implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive and the Parliament's announcement on small hydropower. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that we achieve the right water quality and that we have a testing system that ensures that our water activities are environmentally adapted. Water is the source of all life, and the water that today exists in Norrland may in a while have ended up in Småland, or for that matter in Tanzania. It underlines that clean water is a common good which we must jointly care for. Moreover, in this particular legislative work, water as a prerequisite for the survival of many species has been the focus. The web of biodiversity that we have around us is also a prerequisite for our lives. No one knows how many holes in biodiversity are needed to break the entire fabric. It is therefore important that we ensure that the holes are as few as possible, that is to say that we protect biodiversity by ensuring that fish routes around hydropower, for example, work. Clean water and biodiversity in our waters are crucial for our future. This proposal aims to improve water quality and prevent deterioration in water quality. But water is at the same time the hub of Swedish electricity production. In the transition to 100% renewables that we are now facing, hydropower is absolutely crucial. It accounts not only for a large part of electricity generation but also for a large part of the flexibility that is crucial for the electricity system to provide us with electricity there and when we need it. This proposal provides modern environmental requirements for hydropower and other water activities, ensuring both higher environmental benefits and continued efficient hydropower production. Some of the key points of the proposal are that all old rights will be recognised. This means that all activities will be re-examined, not re-tested, with all the simplifications involved. We are using all the exceptions granted by the European directives. At the same time, this means that the environmental assessment of hydropower that has been discussed for decades is finally under way. With this proposal, there is a clear plan for us to be able to meet the requirements of the WFD. The rules are simplified both administratively and financially. All water activities will be tested on the basis of a national plan to be developed by three authorities in collaboration. The work shall be carried out in a coordinated manner so as to achieve the greatest possible benefit for both the aquatic environment and power systems. The measures for activities that produce or have produced electricity will mainly be financed by a fund for which the energy industry itself is responsible and finances. Today, it is the individual who has to bear all the costs of redress and greening. The Fund will now bear the bulk of these costs, which is a significant improvement for small-scale producers in particular. The fund is therefore not regulated by law. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that we parties that are behind the energy agreement assume that the industry is financing the measures through the fund and that we, all five parties, are prepared to take action if this is not the case. Mr President, I would like to The national plan that will be developed is a tool for a coordinated review so that individual activities in a watercourse or river basin can be examined in a common context. The plan will provide a national holistic approach so that environmental improvement measures are taken where they are most beneficial to the environment while balancing it with the need for efficient access to hydroelectric power. This balance in the national plan shall guide the authorities which are in charge of the State's action in the review proceedings. The plan will also set a timetable for the commencement of trials affecting the same water or water catchment area. If, for example, the national plan provides a basis to demonstrate that there are conditions for classifying a water as heavily modified, which in turn makes it easier to set reasonable environmental requirements, water authorities shall make use of the possibilities available to decide on such classification. The aim of this is to facilitate a good and balanced balance between environmental requirements and hydroelectric power production. When testing individual activities, the national plan is one of many aspects to be taken into account. If an activity is socially beneficial for other reasons, this shall be taken into account in the examination. For example, electricity generation is important for the local or regional balance of power, or cultural or natural environments should be protected. Small hydroelectric power can therefore also be of social benefit. Mr President, I would like to Many of the investments made in water activities are costly and long-term. It is therefore important that the permits apply over a long period of time. Therefore, modern environmental conditions have been defined as valid for 40 years. At the same time, there is an important opportunity for a court to decide on shorter or longer time depending on the circumstances. Mr President, I would like to It is important to stress that the legislative proposal does not impose any new requirements on the owners of dams compared to today, on the contrary. Old mills are not subject to the requirement of modern environmental conditions. From now on, it will only be when the authorities request it as small-scale hydroelectric plants without electricity production will be environmentally tested, and it will then be reviewed according to the rules applicable to the activities already authorised under the environmental code. Unlike today, therefore, only if justified from an environmental point of view will it be tested. This is important for our social resources to be used where they do the greatest environmental benefit. Mr President, I would like to After we have taken this decision, of course, it is the new rules that apply. It is therefore important that authorities provide the right information and guidance on this basis. The Government will therefore commission the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to develop regulations and guidance material based on this legislation, such as the classification of heavily modified water. This is important if the ambitions of these proposals are to be put into practice. As I have already mentioned, it is a complex piece of legislation, although the situation is becoming more predictable and clear than it is today, thanks to this decision. It is therefore important to emphasise that we parties that negotiated it will evaluate and follow it up jointly, as many have mentioned. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-159	Mr President, I would like to Both Åsa Westlund and I have a past as Members of the European Parliament, and Åsa Westlund spent longer than I did. There we both came across the EU's Water Framework Directive when it was revised. The Government's proposal and the report say in relation to the WFD that when our authorities are to make a classification of the environmental status of water, they are obliged to make use of the derogations of the EU directive which impose much lower environmental standards. It is not even the case that they should use the possibility to lie down at the lowest level when they do the environmental classification and develop environmental quality standards, but they are obliged to lie down at the lowest level. Every six years, our water authorities will carry out such a classification. Åsa Westlund! You said that it is important to strike a balance and that modern environmental requirements are important. Why, then, should we force our authorities to lie down at the lowest level and ask for derogations from the EU's water directives? The environmental classification is the basis for what we think about the ecological status of water. If we go to the lowest level, we lower our environmental ambitions, don't we?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-162	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for the question. No, we don't. This legislation will finally give us a way forward in order to take the improved environmental measures that we have said on paper long ago, such as the testing of dams that have never happened. We will now be able to focus on where it is most needed for the environment, and we will have hydropower with more modern environmental conditions. It is a balanced piece of legislation that provides a reasonable way forward for both the environment and hydroelectric power. When you legislate in the EU, you start from a general EU level, and our hydropower is very national. Few countries have hydropower to the extent that we have, and that is why European legislation is not always well suited to our situation. Our ability to make the reasonable balance between the need for hydroelectric power and environmental benefits such as biodiversity depends on the correct classification based on the fact that hydropower has affected the water as it looks. It is therefore highly reasonable to make use of the possibility provided for in the Directive to use this classification.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-166	Mr President, I would like to It is very important that our water authorities do this environmental classification, because it is the basis for what we know about how biodiversity is affected by dams. It is also through the classification that we get a more accurate knowledge of what kind of intervention is being done. The EU Water Directive provides for this derogation, which could set lower environmental requirements than the directive actually lays down, and this derogation should be used in exceptional cases. However, the government proposes that our five water authorities should be obliged to make use of this derogation and, in any case, to settle at a lower environmental level than that directive states. This does not even strike a balance; they are obliged to go below the level of EU environmental legislation. It's strange and a betrayal of the environment.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-168	Mr President, I would like to It is not to interfere with EU legislation, it is to comply with the Swedish legislation that we are now implementing. The EU provides the opportunity to define water as highly modified, for example when there is a lot of hydropower that has affected the water, and we will use that opportunity. It is supposed to work that way, even though heavily modified water, at least in the debate that I had in the European Parliament, was mainly about water that was affected by dangerous substances or other things, not by hydropower. It is part of EU law. Then comes the balance between the environmental requirements to be set based on the classification of the standards and the activities to be carried out. It is of course very important and will be difficult, but I have full confidence that the authorities will do well. Let me conclude by saying that I have not heard from the Left Party today that we need 100% renewable and that hydropower is a very important part of it. There has been a lot of focus on the second environmental benefit, but we both see the environmental benefits. In addition, we have finally started the trial that has not taken place for several years.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-172	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Water Environment and Hydropower Bill. Finally, we are getting started with the environmental test that has been discussed for many decades. The Green Party welcomes the fact that we now ensure modern environmental requirements while at the same time ensuring that hydropower's important role in an energy system with more wind power and solar energy is in focus. Hydropower was an important part of the energy agreement concluded between five parties in June 2016. The Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democracies agreed on a target of 100 percent renewable electricity production in 2040 and important conditions for the future of hydropower. The agreement is the basis for the hydropower bill agreed by the five parties after many and long meetings. Many buns became so, and now we are standing here today and will soon decide on the new legislation, which is long awaited. The agreement states that Sweden will comply with EU law and its requirements for water activities. Sweden must have modern environmental requirements on Swedish hydropower, but the testing system must be designed in a way that does not become unduly administrative and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. The rules for reviewing water activities such as hydroelectric power stations and dams should be simplified as far as possible, taking into account the need to ensure sustainable development where our water resources are not considered to be any resource. That the method chosen to achieve modern environmental conditions is to work on a national action plan is very positive for the individual hydropower owner and a great improvement compared to today. The individual can now wait for his turn to get his water activities environmentally tested, and all activities in a watercourse are tested at the same time. The NAP allows the environmental assessment to take a more holistic approach to what measures need to be implemented. For example, it is of little value to build a fish migration route at a hydroelectric power plant if there is a hydroelectric power plant in the same water upstream that does not have a fish migration route. Modern environmental conditions mean that all hydroelectric plants must have permits that are tested on the basis of the environmental code. This proposal does not in itself imply any new environmental requirements but is about how we should ensure that environmental requirements in the environmental code are implemented. The Environmental Code was introduced in 1999, but only a few of the more than 2 000 hydroelectric plants in Sweden have permits that have been updated since the environmental legislation came into force. The fact that the updates have not been made has been at the root of the lack of resources and resources to implement environmental measures. The State has been responsible for paying compensation for environmental measures. Instead, the financing of environmental measures is now being transferred to the environmental fund that is being set up. The individual hydropower owner is paid for the measures that the environmental assessment assesses need to be carried out. It is therefore a win for both the environment and the hydropower owners. In the Energy Agreement, hydroelectric power producers were granted a reduction in the property tax, which is reduced to the same level as for most other electricity generation plants, i.e. 0.5%. The tax will be reduced gradually over a four-year period starting in 2017. At the same time, the hydropower industry will fully finance the costs of, for example, re-evaluation of activities that make Sweden comply with EU law and its requirements for water activities. The work is based on the partner-discussed fund solution that the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management have been working on for a long time. It could be simplified to say that large hydropower producers are jointly and severally obliged to finance environmental measures in the activities of small hydropower owners. The largest hydroelectric power plants, with over 10 megawatts, account for 94 percent of total hydropower production, but small hydroelectric power plants are approximately three quarters. The environmental fund mentioned is not legally binding, but policy has been very clear that it is not voluntary but a condition of reduced property tax. Mr President, I would like to The energy agreement between five parties states that the national rivers and the other river sections listed in the Act shall be protected from expansion. The expansion of hydropower will primarily be through power increase in existing works with modern environmental conditions. There are currently technical solutions to get more power in hydropower with the same water flow, by replacing the turbines. This is done in some parts of the country and is something that we welcome. As mentioned, the Energy Agreement states that our water resources cannot be regarded as any resource. Water is our main food and fulfills many social functions along with the value of hydropower production. The fact that it has been such a long process is not surprising given the complexity of the issues, which includes many important societal values to be met. The environmental party's starting point is that the target of 100 percent renewable electricity production should be achieved in a sustainable way. Water kra aften currently accounts for about 40 percent of our electricity production and plays an important role as a regulator. At the same time, hydropower needs to be environmentally adapted. Climate and biodiversity are two of Sweden's sixteen national environmental objectives. Hydropower can supply electricity with low climate impact and acts as a battery when we expand more weather-dependent renewable electricity, such as wind and solar energy. Thus, it is an important climate effort. However, hydropower has a negative effect on biodiversity. Plants and animals that depend on rushing water have disappeared in many areas. Fish species that depend on walking between lakes, seas and rivers are prevented from this with ponds that cut off the road. Eel is one of the most affected species, and up to 40 percent of migratory eels are currently assessed to be damaged or killed in hydroelectric turbines. Now we get legislation on how to give Swedish hydropower an effective regulatory framework that ensures both access to electricity generation and the environmental considerations that are possible. When the bill was presented, the Nature Conservation Association expressed that this is a victory for biodiversity. It is important to make it clear to those who listen that it is not a question of new environmental requirements, but the important thing is that the environmental requirements that exist are implemented. That is why we need to compare the proposal with what it looks like in reality today. We are now ensuring legal certainty and effective redress to everyone's benefit. This means that we can both achieve environmental improvements and safeguard the important role of hydropower in the energy system. Thus, hydropower can contribute to both climate and biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the bill.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-192	Mr President, I would like to Finally, we are on the finish line after this long process. There is a lot of hard work behind the bill that is now on Parliament's table. The discussion on environmental testing of sve nsk hydro power has been going on for 30 years, if I have been able to track all the way. Maybe it's even longer. Therefore, it is a major and important step that the Riksdag takes when deciding on this proposal. To understand the complexity of the issue, I would like to say a few words about the current situation. We have a day situation with many rules but that has very little impact in practice. Today, many hydropower owners and property owners in Sweden feel a concern based on the fact that they feel, and are right in fact, that the application of current legislation has been uneven. It has not been predictable enough what will happen to what they own. At the same time, the rules laid down by Parliament in the Environmental Code have not been sufficiently implemented and are not applied in a systematic manner. We now ensure that the environmental code and our environmental rules are applied systematically. The rules that have been on paper for a long time will now have an impact in practice. Today's rules have not been useful for life in watercourses and for the organisms that live there, as in practice they have hardly been applied. From the entry into force of the Environmental Code in 1999 until today, only 50 to 60 reviews have been carried out. There have been far too few. Mr President, I would like to My son is listening to the debate here today. In addition to the education – you will also form yourself during the summer holidays – it is for me a reminder of the long-term nature of the issues that we are debating here today. It is about the long-term nature of environmental work, but it is also about the long-term perspective of the cultural-historical aspect of these issues. Through a systematic and clear regulatory framework, we enable our children and grandchildren to track the history of electricity production in Sweden in the future, understand it and learn from it. It also makes it possible to improve the living environment for life in water. Then it is important to remember that it is about life in the watercourses, life near the watercourses and life in our seas. These three things are interrelated. We cannot achieve our environmental objectives, we cannot ensure powerful fish stocks, we cannot ensure the habitats of the animals that need flowing water, nor can we ensure the habitats that are on the shoreline if we do not work on this systematically. This means that we cannot guarantee it for future generations either. There is also a more short-term perspective that has been highlighted in the debate. We have several industries in Sweden that are dependent on living watercourses and functioning ecosystems. It is the tourism industry, the sport fishing industry and the professional fishing industry, and not least, everyone depends on us having functioning ecosystems and living watercourses. The energy agreement's target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040 is obviously a guiding principle in this work. Hydropower plays an important role in achieving this goal. It is a great strength that we now have a bill that has been negotiated between five parties. It provides a long-term perspective, and it ensures that hydropower is sustainable. The proposal also has the EU Water Framework Directive and an announcement from the Riksdag as its starting point. The main points of the bill are as follows: Hydropower must have modern environmental conditions. The examination of this shall be carried out in a comprehensive national context. Balances shall be made between the need for measures to improve the aquatic environment and the need for a national and efficient supply of hydroelectric power. There shall be a national plan to guide the work of the authorities on trials and water management. The plan sets out which activities should be examined in a context and when the trial is due to start at the latest. As a general rule, an activity may be carried out without having modern environmental conditions until it is time for a review according to the plan. The national plan also makes it possible to test an entire watercourse in a coherent way and identify the measures that have the most environmental benefits and focus the authorities' resources on these measures. The system creates predictability for operators. By testing watercourses for watercourses it also becomes more environmentally beneficial than if we had dubbed out measures a little here and there. Where an activity is carried out on the basis of an original, privilege letter or other so-called special right, that right shall be deemed to have been established in accordance with the corresponding provisions of the environmental code. An activity that has been in the same place for centuries cannot be tested as if it were completely new. However, it must be provided with modern environmental conditions. In the case of both water activities and environmentally hazardous activities and those specifically tested under sectoral legislation, explicit provisions are proposed that these activities should not jeopardise the achievement of water quality by the aquatic environment as a result of EU law or impair water quality in breach of a prohibition on deterioration. The possibilities for making far-reaching demands under EU law, for the benefit of socially beneficial activities, will be fully exploited, for example, in the communication of environmental quality standards, other regulations and decisions on the classification of water bodies. It is clear from the proposal that small-scale hydropower under the EU regulatory framework can be a socially beneficial activity. However, it must of course be examined in each individual case. The bill also states that national rivers should be protected. It is important that Parliament is very clear on this point, because there is broad political support on this issue. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. This proposal should, of course, also be seen in the light of the fund presented by the major power companies, which is also a consequence of the energy agreement. The national plan and systematic review, together with a fund, ensure that we have a significantly increased pace of action with greater environmental benefits as a result. Five parties have sat and discussed the issue and the bill thoroughly. First of all, we have had a comprehensive process with a uniquely high level of openness to the players, that is, the small power companies, small hydroelectric power, environmental organisations and authorities. After that, the proposal has been referred, and after that the proposal has been negotiated. Finally, we have agreed on what is on Parliament's table. It is indeed a strength that so many can agree on a solution of something that has been unsolved for 30 years and which has caused many discussions and much concern around the country in recent years. In this context, I would also like to highlight a party that has not been in the group but has always stood up for both the national rivers and our living waters over the years, and that is the Liberals. I would like to draw attention to the efforts made by the Liberals over the years for living watercourses. I am, of course, very pleased with the Liberals' support for the bill. Just as Ola Johansson from the Center Party said, the bill is a compromise. There are many strong opinions on the issue, and few are 100% satisfied. That is the case after a compromise. To all of them I want to say: See the bigger picture! See the balances and the different interests underlying them. It is environmental benefit for environmental benefit, individual interest against individual interest and individual interest in the public interest. What is important, however, is that we now go to action. We have written in legal texts and in environmental objectives, but the decisions have not been of great benefit to the environment in the past. However, it has caused a lot of concern around the country. Looking at the whole picture, this is a very well-balanced product, which I am proud to be able to put on Parliament's table. As has been said before, it is obviously important to evaluate the work when making such a large product, so that it becomes as the intentions have been. It will be an important part of the work ahead. With this, I would like to thank the Liberals for the good cooperation that has existed with the parties that stand for the energy agreement, and I would also like to thank them for their support.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-216	Mr President, I would like to This is an agreement that the Green Party has made with, among other things, the Moderates, and it is noticeable. It can be seen that it is an agreement that weighs the heavy production interests and in which the environment and biodiversity unfortunately have to be ironed out in many contexts. We have previously talked about the approximately 7,000 dams that are legalised in a pen draft. It's ponds that stuff otherwise free flowing water. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment what the plan is for these dams, which have a major impact on biodiversity. They will not be part of the national review plan, and I therefore assume that the government will draw up its own plan for these approximately 7 000 dams so that they too can meet modern environmental and biodiversity requirements. The second thing I would like to ask is why the government chooses to demand from our authorities that they use the derogation in EU water legislation, so that they actually lower environmental requirements when our watercourses are to be environmentally classified. Is it not obvious that we will then actually lower the environmental ambitions of, for example, our large production rivers?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-219	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it can be seen when a compromise is a compromise. Many interests have been weighed up, and many parties have been involved. It is obvious in the product that no party alone has written it, but what is good about a broad compromise is the long-term perspective and the predictability that this creates for all stakeholders. On the question of so-called older rights, there is already a practice in this area. It is clear from this that so-called older rights, such as charter and privilege letters, have a legal effect to be taken into account in the assessment. As I said, the objective of the regulatory framework is to provide clarity. Therefore, it has been an advantage to enter what is customary as a rule, so that it really becomes predictable. One advantage of this way of working is that our authorities can concentrate on the measures they assess to have the greatest environmental benefit. The national plan will allow watercourses to be tested in a single approach, and this applies not only to barriers linked to electricity systems but also to individual dams. If one considers that an individual pond needs to be examined, the authorities can take this initiative and also prescribe conditions for that matter, so that the full environmental benefit of working in a watercourse can be obtained. The same applies to the implementation of the EU acquis. It will be implemented, and we are trying to make it very clear how it will be implemented – precisely to create predictability. What we want to get away from is a situation that is perceived as twitchy and unpredictable. It's never good for any interest.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-223	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I shall say something about the 7 000 dams that are not covered by this but, on the contrary, are actually legalised. They are said to have permits similar to those in the environmental code. What you could have done is not only hope that our authorities may do something, Karolina Skog, because both you and I know that that possibility is very far away. Instead, you would have been able to develop a plan and a strategy for how these dams should live up to the demands of biodiversity. That's also what the overall environmental movement says, and that's what Älvsrävararna and Sportfiskarna say. A variety of stakeholders want you to act against these dams, which have minimal social benefits but actually gigantic negative impacts. You're not doing anything there, and I'm disappointed. I also find it strange that you are saying that our authorities should make use of the EU's derogations and actually go below the environmental requirements that exist at European level when our watercourses are to be environmentally classified. Why are you telling them to do that?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-226	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I have carefully studied the reaction of various actors to the bill, and I have noted that the overall environmental movement and also the sport fishing movement in general have pointed out that this – when you look at the whole – is a well-balanced product that will lead to increased environmental benefits. It is a question of speeding up the pace of action. That is what is important if we look at this from the perspective of biodiversity. The product should do several things. One thing it should do is to implement the EU's water directives into Swedish law, and we have put great emphasis on doing so in a way that creates predictability. Then it applies to the whole law, including the exceptions that exist. Again, it is a matter of directing both our authorities and everyone else's focus to those measures that do the greatest environmental benefit, so that we gather together there. That's how we save the fish and create good ecosystems in our flowing waters.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-228	Mr President, I would like to In the line with Jens Holm it became quite clear what trip the Environmental Party has made on this issue. I think that the Minister for the Environment made many clarifications that I think are important to bring with him in the further discussion. However, there is a distrust by the alliance parties that were part of the Energy Agreement as to whether the spirit of it will really come true when the law is then applied. I think that mistrust remains. I will come back to that, but it can be said that it is often easier to stand on the outside and look in than to stand on the inside and look out. I think it was pretty clear in the last line shift. Finally, the Minister for the Environment said in his introduction. Rules have been in place that have not been implemented at present, and there is concern that the review system is not predictable. Then I turn to the hydropower owners, who have experienced this concern. This concern is likely to remain with many of those who are currently in a review process and are being examined in accordance with the existing legislation, according to the Minister for the Environment, which is inadequate. It would be helpful to clarify by the Minister for the Environment how she views the trials under way on the basis of current law and what instructions the Minister for the Environment will give tomorrow's decision to the authorities currently dealing with a trial. Will the hydropower owners who are in a trial process live on with the concerns described by the Minister for the Environment, or will they – which is a view that I believe the Minister for the Environment and I share – feel that these are predictable rules that will also apply to those who are in a trial process?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-232	Madam President, I would like We are now here jointly discussing a product that five parties have sat down and word for word and comma for commas developed together. Penilla Gunther was very clear in this part and said that it is we who put this forward. I very much regret the use of words such as that of mistrust. It is mistrust of the common product that is then pronounced. There is only one product that we are discussing here and not different products. There's a bill. We have worked together to find a good regulatory framework that balances and creates predictability. We agree that it should of course be evaluated in order to ensure that, in future, the intentions we have had from the joint work also become a reality. We have also made it clear in the discussion that hydropower owners can sign up for the national plan. As soon as they do, they are told that they will then be able to carry out their activities without the necessary conditions. Then they'll rest in it. That is the system we have agreed on and nothing else. Of course, I will not give any instructions to the authority other than that the law adopted by Parliament applies. It would be a huge abuse of my office to do something else. The hydropower owners included in the plan must register for the plan. Then they will have what one might call a moratorium until it is time for them to have their test and their conditions clarified. That's the spirit of the bill.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-237	Madam President, I would like The word moratorium is something that we in the Center Party have used in our parliamentary movements. We would have liked there to be a moratorium in force today. If I understand the Minister for the Environment correctly, she believes that the trials under way and which have been notified in the past will have a moratorium until the new law comes into force. I would like clarification on this point. Then we come to the question of evaluation. It is said that it is a system that should not be unduly administratively and economically burdensome for the individual. For that reason, it should ensure that the environmental objectives that are set and against which we will test are maintained. It is important to clarify what applies to the evaluation that will then take place. An evaluation that does not lead to measures that may be considered justified by reference to what you see when implementing it is rather weak. I would like to hear from the Minister for the Environment. How does the Minister for the Environment view the purpose and status of the evaluation? Could it be appropriate to make changes even in law or change the instructions to the Authority to ensure that the intentions we have been and agree on in the Energy Agreement if a simpler test will also be carried out in practice?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-240	Madam President, I would like I'll try to be clear. We must distinguish between rules that apply and that have been decided and laid down by Parliament and individual trials. There's a dynamic in between. There is no change in order. It is general legal order that applies to all matters including this one. In this proposal we present a special order that will apply in the future for the test so that hydro power can have modern environmental conditions. The terms and conditions shall be laid down. As an individual hydropower owner, you can sign up for the national plan and find yourself on a timetable. Until that time, you will have the right to carry out your activities without up-to-date conditions. That's the correct thing to say. Mistrust that Ola Johansson breathes also applies to the evaluation. I do not see any difference between this evaluation. If you are going to do an evaluation, you should look at: What was the purpose, and do we achieve that purpose? If the aim is not achieved, it goes without saying that those who make the evaluation will reasonably act on the conclusion they draw. I do not see any reason to have a special arrangement for this evaluation. The point of an evaluation is to check: Do the rules come to what was the purpose behind the rules in their entirety? This is a very large piece of legislation. Therefore, there is a real need for an evaluation in this case.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-244	Madam President, I would like Most of what has already been said in this important debate. But there are some things worth repeating. Hydropower is and has been the spinal cord of the Swedish growth machine for centuries. Hydropower must and must also be protected for the future. Having said that, we support today's legislative proposal but with our motivational reservation. I request the approval of reservation 5. Today's debate is also about other water services. I therefore support reservation 16 on public water services. Madam President, I would like The Energy Agreement contains a number of proposals on how we want to see the Swedish energy sector develop in the future. It also includes wordings on the importance of hydropower for Swedish electricity production. The hydroelectric power is, as I said earlier, the spinal cord of our power supply. It has significant benefits, both large-scale and small-scale. Hydropower must be protected while it goes without saying that hydropower must also have the conditions required by a modern society. It was therefore very important for us moderates with the wording to say that the review system must be designed in a way that does not become unduly administrative and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit. There is a balance ratio here. What we are seeing now is that, as colleagues have done in the past, the trial processes are in many cases so complex and costly that the individual operator of small hydropower does not even dare to ask for a review of its old state of affairs. This does not benefit the environment, and we risk losing valuable hydropower. We Moderates are fundamentally satisfied with the wording of the Energy Agreement. But as we all know, interpretation and implementation of the laws we decide here in the Swedish Parliament is crucial for how the legislative proposals land in reality. We three alliance parties behind the energy agreement – the Moderates, the Center and the Christian Democrats – therefore want to clarify how we believe that the energy agreement's wording on small hydropower should be interpreted and implemented. It is not a question of backing from what we agreed on 10 June 2016 in the Energy Agreement. It is about Sweden having to use the possibilities for exemptions and lower requirements that EU law allows to protect hydropower. So it is not a question of subjugating ourselves to European law, but of complying with it. But we will take advantage of the opportunities available to protect Swedish hydropower. Another concept that recurs is a risk to water quality. We believe that this must be interpreted on the basis of the EU's Water Framework Directive, namely that the activity is an impact of such a magnitude that Sweden's ability to comply with the Framework Directive and its requirements is so seriously threatened that risk-taking must be considered unacceptable. It's kind of hard writing. Therefore, this interpretation leaves room for water activities that have a certain impact on water quality to be maintained. We believe that an assessment of the overall impact and how it affects the ability to reach the right status or potential for the relevant aquatic environment must be made. It is important to stress that the draft law does not mean that any expansion of a water business is an adventure of such a magnitude that it cannot be implemented. When assessing small-scale hydropower, it is of great importance to us that it is seen as the important part of achieving a sustainable electricity system. Small-scale hydropower shall be assessed as a socially beneficial activity. Madam President, I would like We three alliance parties behind the energy agreement have a clear idea of how we believe that the energy agreement on small-scale hydropower should be dealt with. That said, the realization that we cannot always anticipate everything is always present. That is why we are in favour of the government's proposal to set up a control post. The control station is proposed 18 months after the law enters into force. Here we have the opportunity to follow up if our intentions with the bill became a reality and if it turned out as we intended. As my colleague Penilla Gunther said earlier, we must be prepared to reconsider our decisions if we realise that things did not turn out as we intended. Madam President, I would like Today's debate is not only about small-scale hydropower, but also about other opportunities and obstacles to living and living in Swedish rural areas. We would like people to settle and develop their activities outside the big cities, but we do not allow a farmer to build his own housing on what is considered agricultural land. The regulatory framework is rigid and also prevents small-scale construction. Of course, it is important to protect valuable agricultural land, but the people who care for agriculture must also have the opportunity to build their homes there. We therefore believe that Parliament should review the rules governing small-scale housing on agricultural land. Madam President, I would like Another issue that constantly pops up when I meet people who want to live on, live on and develop the Swedish countryside is the municipalities' monopoly on deciding when, where and who has to join the municipal va-net. It is of course of great importance for the environment that wastewater treatment works. We do not want to risk our drinking water supplies, and we do not want unwanted substances to come into nature. However, the system as it is today, where the law requires the municipality to be the principal of water services, in some cases the municipality refrains from making investments. In other cases, the municipality requires properties to connect to the municipal water network even where there are only a few properties. This often leads to excessive costs for the individual property owner and is an obstacle to increased housing construction in rural areas. In order to facilitate the construction of housing in rural areas, we want to review the legislation that regulates the issues of housing. The objective of the review must be to make the law more flexible so that individual actors such as joint societies can also be part of the solution in operation and investments in pipelines and plants. We also believe that the requirement for local government responsibility should be reduced and that the regulation of va-fees should be investigated. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to return to what I started with: the energy agreement is important. We Moderates are behind it. But as important as it was to negotiate a common position in the agreement, it is now that interpretation and implementation take place in the spirit of the agreement. Small-scale hydropower is a socially beneficial activity that has been important for Swedish social construction. It is an important part of Sweden's future. It must be given the opportunity to remain. Now, Madam President, we have the opportunity to show that the Swedish Parliament still sees small-scale hydropower as a socially beneficial activity. Therefore vote in favour of the Motivation Reserve – vote in favour of reservation 5!
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-264	Madam President, I would like As the Minister for the Environment said, the bill has been the subject of many and long negotiations, where five parties have agreed on the exact wording word for word. I am therefore a little surprised that some of the alliance parties here have highlighted the desire for other clarifications or interpretations. After all, we have jointly agreed on legislation, and the details of how it is to be implemented will not be known to any of us. However, the intentions of the bill are clear. Neither Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby nor Mats Green, who opened the debate for the Moderates, participated in the precise negotiations. It was Lars Helmered who did it. But I assume that all parties in the negotiation have been coordinated within themselves. What Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby particularly highlighted is the evaluation that we agree should be made after 18 months. The purpose of the evaluation is, of course, to see that the whole of the proposal becomes a reality in the review. It could be interpreted as meaning that the entry of the Moderates was to ensure their own assessment of the spirit of the agreement. I shall therefore ask for clarification from the Moderates. On the part of the Green Party, it is clear that the evaluation must be about whether the whole proposal, with the many balances being made, becomes a reality in its entirety. It is very likely that we five different parties have slightly different starting values in what we hope will become a reality, but we will all have to take responsibility for the whole we have presented. I shall therefore ask you to clarify how the Moderates view the evaluation that we agree on should be made after 18 months.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-269	Madam President, I would like No, we three alliance parties behind the Motivation Reserve do not want to make any interpretations other than what we read into the bill. That is why we naturally welcome the fact that the Green Party also supports our motivational reservation so that we ensure that the interpretations that we consider correct are those that the Parliament jointly supports. Lise Nordin continued her question by making it clear that different interpretations can occur when she says that we have different wishes about how the bill should land and what effect it can have. I naturally assume – and this was also mentioned by the Minister for the Environment and Lise Nordin – that the review will review all aspects of the legislation. In what I think is the most important wording about hydropower, it says that the cost should be weighed against the environmental benefit. We must ensure that there is a balance in what we all agree on should apply in the proposal. There must be a balance, the review should look at it and our input is clear in how we think this should be interpreted. As I said, we are not looking to have different interpretations, and therefore we welcome the fact that the Green Party also supports our motivational reservation so that it becomes clear what the Swedish parliament thinks on the matter.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-274	Madam President, I would like It is an unusual order that a bill that has been negotiated word for word between five parties then in committee management leads some of the parties to put forward their own letter on what interpretation they want to make. It is quite surprising, but it is, of course, an opportunity that the parties have legally in the management of committees. It is important that all parties concerned by the issue feel confident that there are five parties that have agreed on the bill. This is a long process, and the bill is an important product that will now, of course, be taken forward in the legal review. I welcome the clarification from the Moderates that they are behind the whole of the bill. The words that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby mentions about balance, balances and a holistic approach are important. That is exactly the perspective we must have. We agree on a focus on these issues and on how to ensure that the important values of hydropower are met with the environmental considerations that need to be done and with the evaluation that we are going to make in 18 months' time. I would like to make it clear from the Green Party that it is clear to us that this evaluation must be made on the basis of the overall picture. That is what our followers are given the important task to do.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-278	Madam President, I would like ! I did not understand that Lise Nordin had any further questions for me. Therefore, I would like to repeat what I have already said: it is good that we agreed in the energy agreement. It is good that we have negotiated this bill. But we all know that once a bill is passed and an agreement is signed, there will be interpretations. That is why it is important for us to indicate that we are behind the energy agreement. But we also want to mark what we put into what we have agreed. We will vote in favour of the bill. But we will also vote in favour of our motivational reservation precisely in order to get the clarity that Lise Nordin is asking for and which is so important for operators, for nature conservation organisations, for anglers and for all who are out there. This is our interpretation of the legislative proposal before us today.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-281	Madam President, I would like We can see how the conditions for the taxi industry, both in Sweden and abroad, change as digitalisation makes new progress. These developments present some challenges, but above all great opportunities for innovation and new services to emerge. We Moderates see the need for legislation that facilitates the emergence of car sharing services while at the same time promoting healthy competition in the taxi industry. Increasing the share of passenger transport would not only contribute to the efficiency of the economy but also reduce the environmental impact of our transport. As part of Moderates' ambition to once again make Sweden a digital pioneer, we want to create a modern taxi industry that simplifies for both taxi drivers and customers and contributes to sustainable development. It is against this background that the Government's proposal can be seen as a great disappointment. The red-greens have simply failed to come forward with a proposal that actually modernises the regulatory framework for transport services. It is even doubtful whether the proposed category of taxi services will at all be an option for those involved in providing transport services. It is high time for us politicians to take a grip on the competitive situation in the taxi industry and ensure that it can be done on equal terms. When you read the government proposal, you see that there is no need to clarify which rules apply to car sharing – despite what increased car sharing and better use of resources mean for the economy and the environment. It won't hold. Today, on average, a car stands still 97% of the time. In order for more people to be able to carpool and benefit from transport in a more efficient way, efforts are needed. That's why the government wanted to investigate how to define car sharing and get a modern regulatory framework for the same. And yet you don't go on with it. More and far-reaching regulatory changes are needed in the taxi area than those proposed by the government. For us Moderates, it is of the utmost importance that the taxi industry is characterised by order and order. All taxi drivers, including drivers in the new taxi category, must have good wages and good working conditions. Greater use of digital tools, if properly exploited, can also contribute to compliance with laws and regulations in the industry to a greater extent than is happening today. A digitalized taxi industry can connect drivers and customers while tracking transactions to ensure that all operators pay taxes and that laws and regulations are complied with. Modernising taxi legislation adapted to our digital society could be a win-win situation for all parties. Madam President, I would like Digitalisation is lightning-fast, and the taxi industry, which is in great need of a modern regulatory framework, is now losing momentum as the government does not put more powerful reforms on the table. If we are to enable future taxi services with more shared transport in our cities and, at the same time, safeguard fair competition, this will require political vision and action. That is why the inertia shown by the government in this work during the past parliamentary term is regrettable. It is even unacceptable that things are going so slowly and that we do not want more than this for Swedish taxi industry. Madam President, I would like The pace of development must increase significantly and legislation must be adapted to the reality of the situation. I do not have much to object to what is in the bill – the problem is that I lack really powerful reforms to really ensure that we move from a situation where cars stand still for 97% of the time in our cities to more people being able to use shared services and use more of taxis and more of carpooling. But then the government will actually have to live up to what it said it would do, namely just find a definition of car sharing and a modernised regulatory framework. Other countries have not done everything right either, but at least we see that other countries are seriously trying to see how modern regulation can be found. We see that while in our neighbouring country Finland we are talking about mobility as a service, that is, how to link different forms of shared services with each other, that concept hardly exists in the Swedish debate, much less in the proposals from the government. Madam President, I would like To sum up: Yes, these were some good proposals from the government, but so much more is needed for modern regulation for both the economy and the taxi industry as well as the environment. I am in favour of Amendment No 2 and I refer to the Alliance's joint special opinion.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-292	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that we support all our reservations and our particular opinion, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 1. We would like to start by pointing out that, as a whole, we take a very positive view of the proposal for a new taxi law. We believe that the conditions for the taxi industry need to be updated to ensure more competitively neutral conditions. At the same time, however, we see a need for the new type of taxi to have special registration plates or for the signs to be marked in a way that may be considered necessary. There are several reasons why there is a need for some form of labelling or signage. From a government perspective, the police should be able to take care of these signs to stop taxi traffic from continuing if it does not meet the requirements. We know that the police have digital cameras that read the signs, but to quickly see if it is a taxi or not it can be good with some kind of marking on the signs. We also want to point out the customer perspective. If a car arrives without any kind of marking, you do not know if it is the car that you have ordered. Is it a private car or is it a taxi car? It's gonna be really hard. Then you can also look at the fact that taxis are allowed to drive in bus files. The other day I was in traffic between Gothenburg and Kungälv. Then a lot of private cars were able to drive in the bus lane, and that pisses you off. If, on the other hand, it had been a taxi passing by, no one would have been provoked, because taxis have the right to drive in the bus lane. This new type of taxi may not have to have any kind of marking, which means that people will think that it is ordinary cars that drive in the bus lane. That is why we think it is very important to have some form of labelling that can be distinguished. You don't have to paste it up all over the car and this is a taxi. But a small yellow färp or anything on the license plate would have been good. As I said, when ordering a taxi, you should also be able to quickly see that it can be an ordered car. There are perhaps too many taxis in Stockholm City. But it may not look the same in the rest of Sweden. We Swedish democrats think that we could at least reduce the age requirement for taxi identification from 21 years to 20 years, so that more people can drive a taxi and thus find a livelihood. The taxi industry also has a protective social function. We want you to be very hard if that's the way a crime has been committed. We want the taxi companies and the Swedish Transport Agency to be obliged to jointly check the suitability of taxi drivers, both in the case of new employment and continuously during the driver's professional activities. Madam President, I would like With regard to the new category of taxis, we also want to see information from the Swedish Economic Crime Authority that it is forced to store.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-302	Madam President, I would like Let me agree with what Jessica Rosencrantz said. She spoke earlier in this debate on taxi issues on the basis of a bill put forward by the government that we had expected something modern, something new about mobility as a whole. Unfortunately, that does not mean what is proposed in this proposal. A modern taxi industry needs to be created that makes it easier for both taxi companies and customers. Increasing the share of passenger transport would increase the efficiency of the economy while reducing the environmental impact of transport. That would have been the entrance of the Center Party and the Alliance in a work of drafting a bill, Madam President. Against this background, the bill A new category of taxi services, which the government has presented, is a great disappointment. I, the Center Party and the Alliance believe that the government has failed to put forward a proposal that modernises the regulatory framework for transport services. Furthermore, it is doubtful whether the proposed new category will even be an option for operators involved in providing transport services. Madam President, I would like People and companies in the taxi industry should have good conditions, and competition between companies should be fair. There everyone in this House shares the same ambition. However, a reading of the Government's proposal shows that in many other areas of our society, car sharing and sharing economy – there is not even a hint of trying to clarify what rules should apply to it, even though better use of resources is good for both the economy and the environment. How deep did the Green Party sleep when this bill was discussed in Rosenbad? The average car stands still 97% of the time available. In order for more people to be able to carpool and thus jointly use existing resources in a more efficient way, as a complement to the regulated sharing of vehicles that taxis already are, further and much more far-reaching regulatory changes and liberalisation are needed than the current government has been able to achieve. As has already been said, the Swedish Government should have been inspired by the Finnish example. Our neighbour to the east has thought freer and will reasonably be better able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by both the sharing economy and digitalisation in this area. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a motion from the Center Party which has been discussed in connection with this proposal. Our exercise is linked to the very high youth unemployment rate in our country. Youth unemployment is around 18 per cent, and the number of unemployed is three times higher among foreign born than among natives. However, there are industries and professions that work excellently as entry-level jobs in Swedish society. Taxi business is one of those. Today, in the taxi industry, over 45% of working people are born abroad. The taxi industry could contribute more, but this requires political will. This is something that the cooperation government obviously lacks. One example to move forward could be that, according to my view and that of the Center Party, the requirements for obtaining taxi driver identification can be reviewed and liberalised. An important measure could be to abolish the requirement to have had a driving licence for two years in order to become a taxi driver. Furthermore, I believe that the age requirement for becoming a taxi driver should be reduced to 19 years and that the requirement for bus drivers' skills for taxi training in upper secondary school could be abolished. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-310	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 on the promotion of digitalisation and the sharing economy. Madam President, I would like What will the mobility of the future look like? How are we going to move from A to B? And what will be transferred? In the taxi industry today, the people involved in transport are. But what will it look like in the future? Taxi operations are an important part of this. When we debate the transport system, the car is often set against other means of transport. However, on the basis of this debate today, we can see that cars play an important role. Cars aren't just a bad thing. They're important. Cars are an important issue for rural and sparsely populated areas. It is also an important issue in terms of how to opt out of cars in dense cities and dense regions. And what will mobility look like when cars are autonomous and fossil-free? And how will that affect the taxi business? How is transportation, delivery of goods and more affected? The fossil-free car can be part of creating climate-smart mobility. Taxis may come on call and become part of the public transport system. It is an important issue for rural and sparsely populated areas. Earlier in the debate, we have heard of examples from Finland. They go ahead and really look at mobility issues from A to B from a citizen's perspective. It is important to think about how Sweden could follow in the discussion about future visions. That is why this report is an important and interesting snapshot of where we are today and what challenges we are facing. The taxi industry has gained new players in the market, which affects opportunities. But it also creates certain challenges. Reservation 2 is about the development of the taxi industry, the future taxi industry. The conditions for the taxi industry change as digitalisation makes new achievements. It is important for legislation to keep up with and adapt to the opportunities available and the reality. What we can now see with the current legislation is that there are many problems. It is not updated and in some parts it is very complicated. A modern taxi industry is needed that makes it easier for both taxi drivers and customers, but with fair conditions. Increasing the share of passenger transport would increase the efficiency of the economy and reduce the environmental impact of transport. Through digital tools, drivers and customers can be linked together while the transactions can be tracked to ensure that everyone pays tax and that all rules are complied with. We therefore believe that the meter should meet the technical requirements of the relevant authorities. If these requirements are met, then it shall not matter if the meter is an application in a smartphone or a box in a car. In order to develop and broaden the taxi industry, we believe that a technology-neutral definition of taximeters should therefore be introduced, along the lines of the proposal presented by the Taxi investigation. Against this background, we believe that there needs to be a review of other parts of the taxi business in order to include digitalisation and the sharing economy in this industry as well. Increasing the share of passenger transport would reduce the environmental impact of transport. The proposal submitted by the Government to the Riksdag is therefore a great disappointment. The future issues are missing in that bill. It is doubtful whether the new category will even be an option for operators involved in the provision of transport services. There is no attempt to clarify which rules apply to car sharing. Although better use of resources is good for both the economy and the environment, these proposals are lacking. As previous speakers have mentioned, today a car stands still on average 97% of the time. There should be potential to be more climate-smart in this sector too. In order for more people to be able to carpool and thus jointly use existing resources in a more efficient way, further regulatory changes in the taxi area are needed. There is a need for regulatory changes that take advantage of opportunities in the collaborative economy and digitalisation. These proposals reflect their absence.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-329	Madam President, I would like Taxi is an important part of traffic as a means of transport. Since the liberalisation of the Swedish taxi market in 1990, the number of taxis has increased by approximately 22 per cent according to the Road and Transport Research Institute. It is a development that has enabled better competition. More players in the taxi market have led to both a wider range of taxi companies and more jobs. With liberalisation, some problems have also arisen or amplified. Tourists have been tricked into paying ruthless prices, drivers have been subjected to both threats and violence, and some drivers find it difficult to find where the customer is going. Travel services and other publicly paid trips have ended up in windstorms when some people have been dropped off in the wrong place. Due to the problems in the taxi industry, the Christian Democrats and other alliance parties in the government submitted proposals in 2014 for a new law on taxi accounting centres to improve the tax control of taxi operations and access to rogue actors. The Act on Accounting Centres entered into force on 1 January 2017. As of 1 May 2017, taxi companies are obliged to transfer taxametre data to accounting centres, which in turn are obliged to disclose the data to the Swedish Tax Agency. Since 2016, it is also required that each taxi car's taximeter be inspected by an approved inspection body at intervals of not more than one year. In taxis where an approved taximeter does not exist, the police shall be able to dispose of the registration plate and invalid taxi identification. In addition, the taxi payment terminal shall be connected to the meter so that all card payments are recorded. A new requirement is also that taxi drivers should provide the customer with a binding price information before the journey starts if the pre-travel comparison price exceeds SEK 500. For a taxi passenger or tourist, it may be difficult to know how much the taxi journey will cost, and therefore the new requirement may be a way to overcome misunderstandings and the problem of high prices. Madam President, I would like The taxi industry is an important part of the tourism industry, and in order for the new regulations not to be ineffective, the Christian Democrats believe that good information efforts and increased oversight of the industry are needed. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, have put forward a number of proposals for new rules in order to create better order in the taxi industry. These rules have now been introduced and we believe that they can help to overcome the problems that have been seen in recent years in this sector. In order for the new rules to be well known and not to be ineffective, we Christian Democrats want to emphasise the need for good information efforts and the importance of increased supervision to ensure compliance with the new rules in the taxi industry. Madam President, I would like We would like to stress the need to create a modern taxi industry that makes it easier for both taxi drivers and customers. Increasing the share of passenger transport would increase the efficiency of the economy and reduce the environmental impact of transport. We would like to stress that the taxi industry should have good conditions and that competition should take place on equal terms. We lack clear rules in the government proposal that apply to carpooling. This would lead to better use of resources and would be good for both the economy and the environment. Today, a car stands still on average 97% of the time. In order for more people to be able to carpool and thus jointly use existing resources in a more efficient way, further regulatory changes in the taxi area are needed. In our view, in order to better take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalisation, it is important to increase the pace of development in this area. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 3. The report also contains an alliance-wide special opinion.
i-2HZaVzS1DWEFsMdHsLgQa9	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions. Here there is a discussion about new technologies. The new technology is what has prompted the necessary changes proposed by the government. The Green Party is in favour of new technologies, but we respect the need to have some inertia to see the effects of what is being done. The Government has endeavoured to anchor its proposals in the industry, with trade union representatives and other relevant actors. I think that's very good. There is more than one problem to solve. One big problem that I notice especially in Skåne is the presence of black taxi in combination with that in sparsely populated areas there is much less taxi business. There are fewer taxi companies there today. It is a big problem that you have to have with you when you think about what the future regulatory framework should look like. If you want order, you also have to stand up for the rules that are needed for things to be orderly. When we speak in this House, there are some things that separate us, but we actually have a lot in common too. Several speakers before me have pointed out that it is quite irrational for cars in our urban areas to stand still 97% of the time. It is not effective from a climate point of view, when it comes to using the street space or in terms of how we want to design our cities. When we talk about sustainable mobility, attractive cities and car sharing, we agree in words. But is that how it looks in the cities today? Almost everywhere you meet with rows of cars that either move or stand still, parked. They prevent something that we also usually say we agree that we want, namely continuous cycle lanes and bus lanes, so that there will be a combination of different ways of moving. It is the number of cars, especially in the cities, that hinders what we want. There are a lot of research reports that are interesting and up-to-date that I read about when I was preparing for this debate. For example, the University of Los Angeles has looked at the ownership of the car. In 2000 there were about four people per car. Now there are on average about as many cars as people. This is one of the reasons why it is difficult to finance public transport. Everyone talks about it well, but it is assumed that more people use it to get revenue that can finance the costs. You can also look at our excellent public transport centre, K2, which has produced a report, written by Alexander Paulsson, dealing with different forms of car sharing. We in the Green Party would like to see a distinct definition of car sharing. It's important to think about it so it's right: Car pool, taxi, car rental– yes, what is car sharing? A definition is needed, and it is very much awaited by those municipalities that want to differentiate their parking areas in order to achieve that private cars to a lesser extent fill the cities and that the service car is used more in the form of car sharing. A definition is therefore needed. One can also look at an interesting report from the Swedish Taxi Association written by Stefan Fölster, who has previously been chief economist at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It is interesting that he believes that this private carism is probably not a good future for cities. That positional shift must be welcomed. What's behind it? The climate issue is, of course, at the top, but also the rational, purely economic. We have a problem with public transport that might not be solved but at least reduced if taxi and public transport are linked together. We cannot and do not want railway everywhere, and the bus cannot pick up from everyone's house. If it were possible to supplement public transport with taxis to a greater extent than at present, more than one problem could be solved. It can also be seen from a citizen's perspective. You can visit the Swedish Consumer Agency's website and look at what is the financial difference compared to owning a new car: What is the average cost? According to the tables on the Swedish Consumer Agency's website, the mobility cost can be SEK 10 343 if you have a new Volvo. If you instead have an SL card and rent a car during the month when you might need it best, i.e. during your holiday, the mobility cost can be SEK 1 944 per month on average. It's a kind of citizen perspective. We should be able to agree to facilitate car sharing rather than private carism for those living in cities. Then the question is what is the ideal. Finland is often referred to as an ideal. But it is also important that the new technology for the buzzword, as a service, is set up in a way that benefits the purposes we say we want to achieve: climate targets and efficient use of resources. Then it is a point to have public transport as a base and then combine it with something – driving, taxis, bikes and so on – instead of putting the car first, because then we will not achieve the goals we have set. I think Norway can be so interesting to look at there. They've tried a lot of things. They cannot be accused of being sluggish. There you just look at having public transport first in a concept of mobility as a service. Then it is claimed that self - driving cars solve many problems. I'm sure they'll solve some problems. The more technology you can use to avoid accidents, the better it is. But I think there are quite a few of us who think that responsibility and control are connected. The person responsible for driving must also reasonably have control over the same. If we do not have a driver's license, we would like it to be a trained driver who drives so that we can feel safe and secure. This suggests that taxis have a potential for sustainable mobility in the future. I therefore welcome the fact that, with this amendment of the law, the government is making it easier for taxis to use new technology, but with the rules needed to ensure that there is order on the roads.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-353	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all motions and reservations to be rejected. In the last debate, on professional traffic, I exceeded my speaking time considerably. This time I could perhaps have been content with being brief and just making my pleas, but it would have been disrespectful both to the House and to my fellow debaters, so I was going to say a few words about this report as well. Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the bill A new category of taxi services and exercise from general exercise time. I don't have much to say about the movements – they may speak for themselves – but we welcome the proposal with satisfaction. During the previous government, the then opposition – that is, we Social Democrats and a few more parties – addressed a number of announcements to the government on the investigation of taxi issues. But nothing happened. At the end of the term of office, although there was a proposal on taximeters, accounting centres and price data, that was all, and it was rather meagre, we all thought. Nor did we see that this could solve the major problems that we perceived existed in the taxi industry. The parliamentary debate referred to the fact that the questions were investigated in the Government Office: just sit and wait, and then everything would be fine. But the whole term of office passed, and the initiatives were very few. It took a change of government for something to happen. The taxi investigation submitted its final report last year and it has now been out for a referral, and now we see the result. There is broad agreement behind what is in the bill A new category of taxi traffic. Of course, the bill does not answer all the questions, but it makes it clear that all taxi services, including the new category, should be easily controlled by authorities, especially by the Swedish Tax Agency. This is a major step forward which will make it more difficult to cheat and that competition in this respect can take place on a level playing field. It's important. All taxi operations, regardless of what they call them, should account for their revenues in a fair and correct manner. Madam President, I would like There are, of course, problems in the taxi industry that we must continue to address. The most important and perhaps also most difficult problem is the black taxi business that thrives and is conducted via the internet and Facebook. Here, everyone, including Facebook, should help. However, controlling this is above all a police matter. Through online reconnaissance and together with the Swedish Tax Agency, it should be possible to access most of those who engage in such activities. At least that's my opinion. Madam President, I would like As this is the last debate I will be taking part in here in the House, I would like to end by thanking my party friends in the Committee on Transport, my opponents in the same committee and our lovely and talented office staff. Thank you for making my time here in Parliament the great time I think it has been! Now my voice is silenced from this speaker's seat, but I will not be silenced completely. The debate must always be kept alive for the sake of democracy. Thank you!
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-361	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is wrong for the government, in the planned regulation on a government licence loan, not to determine the target group for driving licence loans until later and then at regulation level. The Government's proposal states that confidentiality should apply to certain data in matters of driving licence loans and loans for home equipment for refugees and certain other foreigners. We believe that this wording is unclear and fear that the clarification of the target group by the government may mean positive discrimination between certain groups in society, such as refugees and certain other foreigners. In this context, we would like to say that we are opposed to any specific solutions to the labour market, including this one. We also note that the Government states that there should be a possibility of a reduction in repayment amounts and write-off of all or part of the loan. However, it is extremely unclear how much economic depreciation and the total cost of Swedish taxpayers will be in practice. Madam President, I would like As regards home equipment loans, on 31 December 2017, there was a debt of SEK 1.6 billion. According to CSN, 0.9 billion of these are insecure feeds. There is quite a lot of money – almost 1 billion – that you do not know if you get back. The Swedish Democrats believe that there is a strong public interest in transparency in matters of driving licence loans and therefore believe that there is a risk that the government's proposals may cover up the costs of integration policy shortcomings. Finally, we would like to stress that it is very important for a licence to be available for a job, but it should apply to everyone. What we do not understand is why the bill does not talk about who this applies. The detailed regulation of the target group is intended to be done at regulation level. Why doesn't it say in the bill who it is? Why is it not transparent and clear with whom this applies? Don't you know who this is supposed to be? So we should decide on the confidentiality of a target group that we do not know which one it is. In the light of what has been presented, we in the Swedish Democrats believe that the proposal should be rejected in its entirety.
i-6pjnFadpGfWsJb4AxqhNmU	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 2 to be approved. Driving licences are important and provide the opportunity to rent or drive a car. It creates freedom. The Liberals, however, have a different priority from the government in terms of the ability to take a driving licence. We think that other groups should have been given priority. I note that the report states that, in other contexts, the proportion of young adults aged 18-24 who take driving licences has increased slightly in recent years following a sharp decline in the early 2000s, and believes that it is positive if young people take driving licences as early as possible. We share this view in the Liberals. It is important to make this possible. But is this to be financed by the government through CSN loans? If so, why? Instead, we Liberals are giving priority to measures to increase the proportion of professional drivers. It creates jobs when the shortage of professional drivers is great. It, in turn, generates tax revenue, which makes it possible to repay loans. Occupational traffic has a great need for recruitment. During my travels around the country, this issue constantly recurs with various actors in the transport industry in both Norrbotten and southern Sweden, yes everywhere. Generational change is hampered in small businesses. It's hard to get a driver. In addition, growing regions need more transport. It may also be that you cannot even get ahold of someone who can drive the bus, drive heavy transport or do snow clearance. There are activities that simply close down and disappear. There is an annual need for somewhere between 6 000 and 7 000 professional drivers. However, the attractiveness of the profession is hampered by existing rules and the prerequisites for funding training in order to obtain a certificate of professional competence. It is also important to review the driving licence rules themselves in addition to finding funding and an opportunity to participate in training. That is why we should take a holistic approach to this great challenge. Why are C and D licences not included in the proposed actions? Today there are extensive training requirements and, combined with poor funding, it will be difficult both to become a new driver and to change the course over the years. We in the Liberals have proposed a series of measures which, together with these various proposals, could remedy access to professional drivers. This is important, because the transport sector needs many drivers. In our opinion, vocational training in vocational training could also be part of such a system. That would increase the influx of drivers. Madam President, I would like The committee points out that driving licences can, according to the government, increase the chances of getting a job for certain individuals, which is why the possibility of a government licence loan is considered to be capable of improving access to the labour market. When we know that there is a shortage in a profession, is it not important, as in this case, to find professional drivers who could directly find a job and could help to get transport going? We do not have any proposals for that. We also believe that the possibility of repaying loans is increased if you go directly to work and can start working as a professional driver. We therefore lack the link with the labour market in this regard. What measures is the government prepared to take to address the shortage of professional drivers? I note that it states that the number of professional training places should be increased, but it is marginal in view of the great needs that exist – 6 000 – 7 000 professional drivers per year. Generation shifts are hampered in smaller companies. Transport is not carried out because there is no access to professional drivers who can do the jobs.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-381	Madam President, I would like Without professional drivers, the transports are stationary. This hampers Sweden's growth.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-382	Madam President, I would like In the 2014 election campaign, we Social Democrats promised to work to introduce a driving licence loan to give more people the chance to be employed in the Swedish labour market. All studies in this area show that today in the Swedish labour market it is often necessary to have a driving licence. We can consider whether this is necessary in all advertisements and in all recruitments, but how that happens still requires driving licences. We also see the trend that the number of young people taking driving licences has fallen in the country. It is one of the arguments for us to introduce a licence loan. In the past, other means of obtaining driving licences were provided. Through general military service, many men, in particular, took the opportunity to obtain driving licences during the conscription period. Then we know that the defence was disarmed and changed for a number of years. Then that possibility also ceased. Now that universal conscription has been reintroduced, we will see what will happen and what will happen in that part. But we lost a great generation for a number of years. It now introduces the possibility of a driving licence loan via the CSN system. In a first stage, it is targeted at some unemployed, and in a second stage it is also targeted at some young people who have completed upper secondary education. This will facilitate entry into the labour market. With the implementation of the licence loan at the level of the regulation, more target groups can be introduced, and the effects can also be more easily followed up by the amendment of this Regulation. The Swedish Parliament is now making decisions on changes to the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality and the Act on Traffic Schools in order to introduce a driving licence loan. The possibility of a licence loan will be introduced on 1 September 2018. A driver's license today, including lessons at traffic school, is usually estimated at about SEK 15 000. Of course, the sum depends on the different individuals. It is a costly investment for a young person who also enters the labour market. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on the two accompanying motions that have been launched in this area. In a motion from the Liberals Nina Lundström, she rejects the bill. She believes that it is not reasonable to finance through CSN loans the cost of training for B driving licences. But that is exactly the beauty of the crow song, i.e. getting more employable with the help of the driving licence. The Swedish Democrats, via Jimmy Ståhl, follow their habits faithfully and criticise the government and the proposal because it is not legislated on target groups but the government should decide on target groups at regulation level. There too, my comment is that it is a question of getting a smooth approach to the management of the target groups and of having a legally sound follow-up of the target groups. The Government has also allocated funds in the 2018 budget to implement the reform. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Transport Committee and the staff of the office for this parliamentary term and to wish you all a pleasant summer.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-392	Madam President, I would like In substance, Johan Andersson, I share the view that it is great that it is possible to take out a loan to take a driving licence and then take a job. It's expensive to take a driver's license. I see the difference between taking a driving licence and later choosing to take a motorcycle license. By then, VAT would have been charged by 25%. It's not easy being young today. We also know that entry into the labour market is becoming more difficult and difficult. A driving licence will of course make this easier. But how do you get money? Yeah, it's not easy when you don't have a job. Often parents do not have the opportunity to pamper. There may be more than one child — two, three or four. A driver's license loan, I think, is very positive. What I don't really know, however, is the following. The government bill states that the loan is intended to be directed at some unemployed persons aged 18 to 47 in the first step. Who are these certain unemployed people? Why do not all unemployed people have the opportunity to get this loan so that the unemployed can get jobs – not just some unemployed people? I can't read anywhere how big these driver's loans can be. I would be grateful if Johan Andersson could clarify this to me.
i-J5YZM8VYYV5J1aKQDXxtGt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the questions! It's easy to answer the questions. Of course, like everyone else, we have a budget that we have to relate to in terms of appropriations and so on. In addition, this area is unexplored land. It is a new reform that is being introduced, and we do not know what the outcome will be. I am convinced that there will be a positive outcome. We also know that the labour market today is extremely changing. This applies, in particular, to the group of job seekers. There has previously been a high youth unemployment rate in Sweden. It has fallen drastically in recent years, which has been positive. More young people are now employable. For more new arrivals, handling times and other things have been shortened, which means that they get to work quickly. These are the reasons why we are introducing driving licence loans and giving the government the opportunity to decide at regulation level which groups are covered. The reason is that it will be as fast a way of handling as possible precisely because the labour market is moving as fast as possible. It may not be time to wait the process out of the usual democratic path. This is a matter of quick decisions. I am not particularly concerned that there will be shortcomings in the management. There are follow-up opportunities that we Members of Parliament will consider. We will therefore have full transparency in this area. The very point is a rapidly changing labour market, which requires rapid reforms.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-400	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are not at all negative to driving licence loans. We believe that it is important to be able to take a driving licence. Although many in this House do not want cars at all, they are an important factor. I listened earlier to Nina Lundström, who spoke about vocational training. Today there are upper secondary vocational training courses, but say that you got a little wrong and thought wrong and chose an education that does not include vocational training for, for example, the driver's profession. Would Johan Andersson consider putting a piece of this in the bill? In addition, the person who gets a job has much easier to repay his loan. Because it's a loan that Johan Andersson and the Social Democrats think of, isn't it? If you look at the home equipment loan, for example, you can see that huge amounts of money are never paid back. The question is, who are some unemployed people supposed to take out a loan? Later in the text, it says that in 2019 the government intends to extend the possibility also to young people aged 19 to 20 who have completed upper secondary education, but earlier in the text it says that it would apply to some unemployed people aged 18 to 47. There's a group in the group. Which groups does the government intend to take out these loans?
i-W5gxyAsAJKe9S9V2Do2Rnk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy, for your supplementary question! Again: The beauty of the crow song with regard to the regulation is that you can quickly make changes and also connect on more within the framework that we decide with the bill. This means that this can change with regard to the target groups. As I said at the outset, the market is not static today, which is a positive thing. It's moving fast. Then there is the possibility of making changes to the licence loans to target them correctly so that they really come to the right target group. In the case of those who currently have a driving licence and need to supplement in order to be eligible as professional drivers or in other parts, we have adult education. There we have added 1 000 new seats to vocational training, and we are prepared to increase the number if that is not enough. One of the most important political issues we have to resolve is the fight against unemployment, and in this House we have a common responsibility. Of course, we will change it if we see that it is not enough, but we have thus added 1 000 new places in vocational training. There you also have the answer, Jimmy, to the group that today has a competence and needs to supplement in order to become, for example, professional drivers.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-408	Madam President, I would like The recruitment requirement is 6 000 – 7 000 drivers per year. We often talk about the fact that there are no jobs and that it is difficult to enter the labour market, but here we see that there is a clear need in the industries. I believe that everyone who is on the committee who is travelling in the country hears the same thing over and over again. It is from those who drive buses and run small businesses. It is about all kinds of transport, and it is a pressing need. I have often been asked: What can you contribute from Parliament to provide the opportunity, even for those who already have a B driving licence, to switch over later in life and become a professional driver? Somewhere the consequences are alarming. On the one hand, you cannot recruit professional drivers, and on the other hand, there are a lot of transport that cannot be carried out – transport that is so important, not least in the country. That is why we, the Liberals, are making a different priority. It is important to be able to take a B driver's license, but if we are to prioritise resources, we think that here we need to do something on the part of Parliament. That is why we have chosen to put forward another proposal, which is to focus on professional drivers and to be able to take C and D licences. We have also proposed lowering the age limit. Today it is 24 years for those who have not completed high school. We want to review the rules on driving licences and much more. This is what I don't really understand. Johan Andersson says that it is prepared to take further action, but you will provide 1 000 vocational training places when the need for recruitment is 6 000 – 7 000 drivers annually. What else are you prepared to do?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina, for the questions. Once again, we are adding 1 000 training places to vocational training. We must also remember that today much of the training is being done within companies, within the various haulage companies. Of course, it looks very different depending on the size of the field, profitability and other things, but it is also part of it. It trains companies internally to become professional drivers in traditional training courses. The employer simply bears the cost in that part. We are, of course, prepared to follow this issue. One of the most important issues for us Social Democrats is combating unemployment, and we shall do so in full. Vocational training is part of making more employable. So the answer to you in this part, Nina, is that we will follow the question and see what progress will be. First of all, we want to see the impact of 1 000 new places on the market, complemented by the regular training available today and the training that companies pay for in many ways.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-417	Madam President, I would like These companies note that the only option for them is often to bear the cost. I note that it is 140 hours and a lot of other costs – it is about tens of thousands of crowns for the individual. I think this is a pity, since we now have a large industry and a large sector calling for professional drivers – 6 000 – 7 000 a year. Buses do not roll; heavy transport does not roll until drivers are reached. Companies can't make a generational shift, because there's no one to recruit. In addition, we have other regulations that also hamper – the 24-year limit for continuing education, funding and much more. I think it is well-lucky to want to invest in giving some unemployed people the possibility of CSN loans in order to be able to take a B driver's licence. But if we have a large sector calling for labour, for professional drivers, and the parliament does not act, I think that is a great pity. That is why the Liberals have focused on doing something so that we quickly increase opportunities. It could also involve broadening procurement and validating existing driving licences. It is about reviewing this form of funding and much more. Should we make wise decisions here, we could quickly facilitate recruitment. Ultimately, it is about companies' ability to recruit and about Sweden's growth, because if the transport sector is still, everyone – including us consumers – is affected by it. I hope that the government will listen to the debate and criticism. On the Liberal side, we will in any case continue to push the questions, but I would still like to give Johan Andersson the opportunity to answer. Is there any single rule or funding issue that Johan Andersson is prepared to take with him?
i-UUKPbzc7yZujw361zDLfBY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina, for your supplementary question! The first question I think I have answered. Once again, we are adding 1 000 new seats to the professional driver programme. Of course, we are not satisfied with it if we do not see that it has a full effect, but what we are doing is following the question in that part. One of the most important issues at the moment is combating unemployment. Here there is an open window, as you point out, when you have a great need in the industry. But the industry also has its own responsibility, which many take. This is an opportunity to help those who need to be hired. The government is, of course, listening to these pieces – above all, because it is a social democratic government that has the same objectives as the other Social Democrats, that is, to combat unemployment. We are constantly looking at what the system will look like with different training places and in other ways, so it is an issue that we are taking with us. I am also prepared to pass that on. What is to be added in the case of driver training is that, as Nina is aware, there is a review of what this will look like in the future. It remains to be seen what effect it will have; it will be clear at some point in the autumn. So there are several parts to this.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-427	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report TU19 on driving licences. It is, in fact, an almost entirely united Committee on Transport and Tourism that supports the report, which I think is a good thing. The proposal makes it possible for persons taking driving licence B to apply for student loans in order to finance their driving licence. This is an issue that I and my party have been pushing for a long time, and I am glad that we are finally here and that this has been made possible. What is not good about the driver's licence loan is that it is only aimed at those who are unemployed and only refers to B driving licences. But it's still a good start. Madam President, I would like Driving licence training is one of the most important training courses a person can undergo. Not only do you learn how to drive a vehicle, you also learn how to behave in traffic and risk assessments etc. Having a driving licence also opens up completely new opportunities to live and work throughout the country instead of being forced to live in the cities, where there is an expanded public transport system. A driving licence also gives people a great deal of freedom of movement, without timetables or planned departures. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs the car and also the truck, buses and aircraft to work. Sweden needs more drivers and more who take driving licences. But Sweden does not need a Social Democratic government that does everything to tax all our vehicles and their fuel. This government's tax policy threatens the car, the bus, the truck and the aircraft, and it threatens our jobs and our countryside. Sweden needs a new government on 9 September. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more drivers. Today, many truck and bus drivers are missing. This endangers both jobs and companies in Sweden. If more people took a driving licence, it would certainly reduce unemployment in Sweden, and this must therefore be encouraged even more. In many other countries it is cheaper to take a driving licence because you have lower VAT on driving licence training. There is therefore a lower tax on driving licences, which we in Sweden should also look at and possibly introduce. Why should you have tax on such an important education as driving licence training, when there is no tax on other educations in Sweden? To conclude, I would just like to say to those who have not yet taken a driving licence: take a driving licence and take advantage of the opportunity to move freely and avoid all these train delays! I would also like to take this opportunity to wish all the citizens and members of the Committee on Transport, Public Health and Consumer Protection a pleasant summer.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-436	Madam President, I would like I represent the Center Party, and we have the view that the finest ticket into society, no matter where you come from in this world, is to have a job. The Center Party therefore believes that what this proposal is about, i.e. that those who need it should be able to finance their driving licence with CSN loans, can be a good idea. It is basically about people having to be mobile, accessible and employable in order to be able to get to work and contribute to the construction of Swedish society, no matter where you come from in the world – Skaraborg, Småland or any other place. As previous speakers have said, the Committee on Transport agrees to a large extent with the adoption of the proposal for regulatory changes and changes in legislation that are a prerequisite for introducing a government licence loan, administered via CSN. It is good that this is introduced, Madam President, but I do not think that we can stop at this over time. There are things where the government proposal could have gone further and been more offensive. One such change, which I am convinced will come over time, is that all the driving licence classes leading to work – bus, truck, etc. – could also be included in the study support system. Professional drivers are an advanced profession and a shortage profession. All those with formal skills and a reasonable propensity for the profession are close to work, both today and in the future. The efforts and measures of the State Employment Service, including in this area, have failed, and a whole industry is now crying out for labour.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-440	Madam President, I would like It is good to hear the debate! Now I am jumping in quite quickly, but I just wanted to come here and say that I am glad that an almost unanimous committee supports the report on driving licences. I am pleased that the Left Party has pushed this issue hard in the negotiations. That was not mentioned, but of course I have to come here and say that. There are some things that I find sad and distressing. For example, Jimmy Ståhl mentions, just as the Swedish Democrats also write, refugees and other foreigners. I have no problem with some of those categories getting part of the loan. I simply think it is a pity that these concepts are used. I can only mention that this is a non-question for Stockholmers. However, when the home care service is looking for staff for the summer in my municipality of residence, for example, it would be almost impossible if pensioners did not volunteer and if we were not so close to Finland that people from there would run as substitutes during the holiday period. If, on the other hand, you have a CSN loan for those who are unable to obtain it otherwise, it will be completely different. It occurs, Nina Lundström from the Liberals, quite quickly a beta l ability for these loans, because you get jobs when you have a driving licence. It's connected. When I was about to turn 18 almost 36 years ago, there were two things I thought I would do as soon as I had filled: buy an elk bouncer and get a driver's license. Buying the moose bouncer on a deposit was fine. But getting a driver's license on payment from driving school didn't go. On the other hand, I had a father with whom I trained, and the driver's license did not cost me more than 680 bucks. So that was all right, but I definitely claim that many young people would have had a better chance of getting a driver's license if there had been a licence loan at the time. The elk bouncer is paid off today, so I live with it. I agree that this with professional drivers is an important issue, but Sweden has actually been an amazing country for them too. Labour market measures have been introduced once they have been seen to have been needed. As Johan Andersson says, there is also an increase in the number of places on training courses for professional drivers. Of course it would be fun to have other parts too – it's not just about driving licences today. The necessary professional skills must be paid for yourself if the driver does not. I'm sure that's a good thing. But I think it is great that this has come about and that an almost united committee supports it.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-447	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help but take a line when Birger Lahti mentioned my name. As a representative of a government support party, Birger Lahti may be able to answer why not all unemployed people are included. Why is it chosen to target some unemployed between 18 and 47 years of age? Is it that some people are worth more in the world of Birger Lahti than in the world of the Swedish Democrats? We believe that everyone should have the opportunity to receive these loans. But it mocks Birger Lahti in the speaker's chair. How large a loan will CSN be able to pay out? In the case of home-equipment loans, taxpayers account for some 0.9 billion in bad debt. How much bad debts should taxpayers have to pay when it comes to CSN loans? We do not know who is covered by these loans. It should be obvious that all unemployed people have the right to be covered by a licence. Doesn't Birger Lahti agree?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-450	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy, for taking a line on me! I agree with everyone who has trouble getting a job. However, if I know that some youth has parents who are good for a few billions, I could say: you do not need a licence loan. Here it has come to the conclusion that it applies to certain categories of unemployed people. I'm sure there are thoughts behind that. But I can't go into who wouldn't be touched. I hope that this concept of borrowing is used with common sense. As I said, this will matter in my municipality of residence. It will certainly affect the category that you mention and that otherwise does not come in. They're good. They can take care of old people, but they don't have a license. What's wrong with them getting a license loan through CSN and getting a job pretty fast once they have a driver's license? Other local youths may also have access to the loan. But painting that they wouldn't be touched by this bothers me any more. It bothers me more that we would exclude some others and not give them access to the loan just because you would call them something else. This loan has a clear rural perspective. I am glad that this is being done. This is important in the sparsely populated areas, at least in many municipalities that I know of. How much the state should have unfunded I do not know, but I hope that everyone who takes a loan understands that a loan is a loan and will be repaid. The sooner they get a job, the sooner they will start paying off on the loan.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-456	Madam President, I would like It sounds like Birger Lahti and I are quite in agreement. I stand in the speaker's chair and say that anyone who is not able to buy the training himself for a driving licence should be covered. I don't want to exclude anyone. Just as Birger Lahti says, a loan is a loan and is to be repaid. The idea is to get a driver's license to be easier to get a job. Then the possibilities are much greater to pay back. There's a deal. Let us look at the future! Cars stand still 97% of the time, they say. In the case of autonomous vehicles, it will take a long time before they are in port, especially when you do not know what the regulatory framework looks like and who is responsible. After all, a dream in a future would have been to be able to drive a vehicle blind or disabled or even when you only feel like being transported from point A to point B without having a responsibility. Then you can take taxis, but when autonomous vehicles are in place it is certainly no problem. However, it will take a long time. Until then, it is a question of having your own driving licence and driving a vehicle, whether private or professional. Again, I would just like to know why Birger Lahti does not advocate that everyone should have this right, whether you have finances or not. A loan is a loan and must be repaid. I don't see any weirdness in it. What I see strange is that you don't include everyone.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-459	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate, Jimmy. I agree in part, but on the issue of certain categories of unemployed, I do not know why you exclude the possibility of young people who find it difficult to take out loans in other ways. Then the question comes from me: How would the Swedish democrats have stood if a formulation in the bill would have read: a person cannot borrow if he is a foreigner or a refugee. ♪ ♪ How would you have stood up to the loan? I think I know the answer. You want to point these people out and claim that they have priority. I don't think they do. We all want them to get a job as soon as possible. They're coming into society. Driving licence's a part of it. I am sure that there will be young people from the locality who will also be given the opportunity to borrow through CSN. But I don't have the details, and this has not been designed with those words. I hope, however, that many people will receive the loan and get a job after a while. ( First VICE TALMANN: The question must be seen as rhetorical. )
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-461	Madam President, I would like The view of the Moderates is that the government's mission is normally to provide frameworks and rules for business and business, not to own and run companies. However, the state is a large owner and will be so for the foreseeable future. It calls for clear principles. We are debating one of those principles here and now. It's a social mission for the state companies. This debate concerns a review by the Swedish National Audit Office of state-owned companies where they have a social mission to take responsibility for. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that it is clear that you have a social mission but that it does not say anything about the social benefits to be achieved. This considers the Swedish National Audit Office to be remarkable. After all, the social benefit is our way of measuring what we get for our tax revenue. State-owned companies have to some extent been given mission objectives. Mission objectives are part of three parts of what the state companies are to pursue. The government defines for the first time the mission with its purpose and social benefit. Secondly, it defines what the companies should do, and thirdly, it defines the mission objectives. But it is still far from everyone who has mission goals. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that they lead to clearer goals, which is understandable, because they are directed towards the goals and can measure them. This is therefore a very important tool for clarifying each company's mission. The Swedish National Audit Office states that 8 out of 23 companies have received defined mission targets since 2013. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the process of giving companies mission goals is proceeding well slowly and believes that it can take up to seven years at the current rate before you are able to deliver these goals. 13 of the state-owned companies say in the survey that they are underfunded in their community mission. That is what they have announced when they have been asked about their work on these social missions. That means you have less money than it costs. It is also said that there is a long-term financing problem for a number of state-owned companies. This means that in the future they will not be able to solve it with the money they have. Three companies have said that they cannot complete the mission fully as it is now, and only two companies have indicated that the owner has given any instructions on how to deal with a potential conflict of interests with other assignments. Several companies are calling for the financing issue to be dealt with more long-term in dialogue with the owner, which could reduce the risk of target conflicts. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report on state-owned companies with community assignments addresses very good and forward-looking issues regarding governance of the state-owned companies for increased transparency, for efficient use of tax funds and for knowing how to cope with competitive situations and objectives. The report shows that social missions and the risk of a level playing field with potential private competitors may be in difficulty. It is important that state-owned companies with social responsibility do not become over- or under-funded. You have to avoid that. Otherwise, competition is at stake. There is compliance with laws and regulations that justify clear decisions in this area. I myself have been involved in quality reviews in civilians, outside of the parliamentary mission. Open comparisons and measurable targets are incredibly important in order to be able to clearly follow the effects and costs of what is to be achieved. In this report, the Alliance has a reservation which I would like to support. It says that we want to see an accelerated implementation of the mission targets that the state companies should have, so that it does not drag on. We also want to see clear reporting to the Riksdag regarding the social assignments in the state companies. The government, for its part, has responded to the report. They say that they are working without delay on the process of ensuring that mission objectives are put in place. But there's a... But there's a... there's a... there's a... there's They write that how quickly they can progress depends on the conditions and available resources. It then means very unclear time aspects forward. It may take 10 to 12 years. Regarding the parliamentary mission, it is clear that the Swedish National Audit Office writes that there is a need for clarification in the accounting to the Riksdag. You stress it very well. The Committee on Economic Affairs has done the same. That is why the Alliance has also emphasised it in the reservation: that it must get better.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-473	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's reservation to be approved. Some of the state-owned companies have a special community mission. This is a main reason why the state sometimes owns companies. The assignments cover important areas of society. They are decided by the Riksdag, and they aim to generate effects other than financial gain. One example is Systembolaget, whose mission from the state is to reduce alcohol damage by, among other things, informing about the risks of alcohol, providing good service and selling with responsibility. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the government's governance of the companies with community assignments provides just good conditions for achieving the social assignments in question. The review shows that there are quite large variations between the companies and the government's follow-up and accounting. This applies, in particular, to the conflict of objectives with regard to funding and community missions. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that the governance and follow-up need to be developed. The opinion of the Center Party is: Yes, sometimes it is legitimate that the state owns companies, precisely in view of social missions. Then it is also important that there is a clear purpose with social missions that can be measured and evaluated and that there are defined mission objectives. This also means that there are companies that do not have a real social mission. These companies should be divested – on a market-based basis, of course. I am thinking, for example, of SBAB, which says: We are not interested in investing north of Uppsala. We have a problem when you only talk about banks in metropolitan areas. There is already good competition there. There are also examples of state-owned companies that have made huge profits – Akademiska Hus and SJ. We can see that this money could have been much better spent. In the Alliance's reservation, we share the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism that the government must develop the goals of the companies with community assignments. The Government should also supplement the annual letter to the Riksdag on state-owned companies with a coherent report on the specific tasks of society. The government claims to be working on the questions. Nevertheless, it has taken several years, and only a few of the companies meet the targets themselves. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. If the state is to own a company, you should be an active owner, and you should make sure to use the companies to achieve social goals, not anything else.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-481	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the Alliance's reservation in the report to be approved. We have had different debates over the last few years about state-owned companies. As an alliance, we have a thought about this very thing. It is really for special reasons that the state should own and operate companies. It is important not to compete in the open market in such a way as to make it more difficult for other owners and companies present there. Therefore, this particular report from the Swedish National Audit Office becomes all the more interesting. In this context, I would like to point out the fact that we in Parliament have to deal with the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office very long afterwards. In fact, it could be quite good for everyone, including the Swedish National Audit Office, to see that we take the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office seriously and do something quite immediately. The government will of course have a chance to give feedback on the reports, but it is important that in the next step we take advantage of the knowledge and insights that the Swedish National Audit Office has. We do not need to agree, but it is important that we share them properly. What is interesting in this report is that it is precisely about the social mission of the companies. One might think that all publicly run and owned companies would have a social mission and that they would be able to demonstrate social benefits if they were owned by the state, as in this case, or at regional or local level. Then there should be some form of social benefit, and thus they would have a social mission. In general, the Alliance believes that the state should only own companies of precisely national interests and so on. For example, we could talk about Telia, who has been crying for a while. Infrastructure with IT and telephony should be of particular interest, I think, not least for security reasons. We can look at, as the Swedish National Audit Office has done, the effectiveness of the government's governance. It is a bit sad that only eight of these companies have received mission goals based on the social mission. It is Rymdbolaget, Swedavia, Swedish Export Credit, Systembolaget, Almi, Göta Canalbolaget, SOS Alarm and Swedfund. It can be great that you have started with just these – absolutely. But how is it that when, for example, we adopt a space strategy, on which we have just had a debate, we do not deal with this with the Swedish Space Company? How should you use the company in a strategy with a decided community mission? I am thinking, for example, about the labour market and entrepreneurship. How come we never put Almis's mission in and what they're going to do to achieve greater, so to speak, impact of the investments that are made in total so that people can get to work and dare to start and run businesses themselves? I would just like to mention that as an example. Sometimes I think that the state companies become individual islands, which in some way only operate their own activities without having contact with the surrounding authorities and society, which we as the parliament have to decide on. That is why, Madam President, I can only agree with the joint reservation of the Alliance and hope for improvement with formulated mission objectives.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-491	Madam President, I would like The state-owned companies, ultimately owned by the Swedish people, are of great importance for jobs, growth and development in Sweden. They are well-managed and in many cases leading in terms of gender equality, sustainable development and also digitalisation. The state-owned companies consist of 39 wholly owned and eight partly owned companies, two of which are listed: Telia and SAS. One of them has been mentioned here. There is also reason to stress that the state-owned company portfolio is one of the largest in Sweden in terms of value. The value exceeds, as a comparison, Investors' and Industrivärden's total portfolios together. For 23 of the companies there are specifically decided social mandates, and this is the focus of the report that we are now discussing in the form of the Government's letter 2017/ 18:172 Riksrevisionens report on state-owned companies with community assignments and a motion brought about by the letter. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motion and the reservations of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like During visits and meetings with state-owned companies that I myself do, where I talk with employees, management and trade union representatives, pride in working in the service of the state – the Swedish people – appears to be a tangible common denominator. Many people who work at companies describe their situation that way. It would in itself be worth highlighting for the companies concerned. With regard to the social missions and the objectives set, there is a need to highlight the state's ownership policy and policies for companies with state ownership. It states that the government will actively manage the state's assets in the form of shares in the companies with state ownership so that their value development and return will be the best possible subject to a balanced risk-taking, as stressed, and that the decided social mandates are performed well. In this context, ownership dialogue is obviously of great importance. The policy also mentions that the starting point is the Swedish corporate governance model. This means that the Annual General Meeting is the highest decision-making body and that the Board is responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs. It is also the responsibility of the Board of Directors to set objectives and strategy for the company's operations and that the company's management manages operational operations. Mr President, I would like to In the letter, the Government reports its assessment of the observations and recommendations presented by the Swedish National Audit Office in its review report concerning the companies with specifically decided social mandates. The recommendations stress that as many as possible of the companies that have community assignments should also have mission goals within the foreseeable time frame. It is also pointed out that the annual letter to the Riksdag should be developed. The Government agrees in part with this recommendation and stresses that such a process should be carried out without delay for all these companies, as has been mentioned here, but it should take place at the rate allowed by the conditions and available resources. Accounting is carried out in fact every year, and the Government emphasises its intention to implement measures to further improve it on the basis of what the Swedish National Audit Office addresses. In this context, a united committee as late as autumn 2017 welcomed the Government's choice to develop the content of the annual letter so that the Riksdag can better get a picture of the development of the companies and underlined the importance of this fine work continuing. That's what's happening now. Mr President, I would like to What has happened in the last two years with the total value of state-owned companies is a trend break compared to previous mandates. In 2017, the value of the government's corporate portfolio increased by approximately SEK 60 billion, which is an increase of almost 12 per cent. During the same time, the Stockholm Stock Exchange has increased by approximately 6.5 per cent. The increase is mainly linked to Vattenfall and LKAB. The developments in Vattenfall could be described as remarkable. In recent memory, many still have the framed Nuon affair during the last term of office, with investments in German coal power that cost taxpayers several billion dollars. Now the setbacks after strong work by the company have turned into success. Vattenfall, the largest state-owned company, is driving the transition to renewable energy systems. It is of great importance to Sweden and our continued energy management that this development continues. LKAB's better outcome from price and currency hedges and higher market prices for highly refined iron ore products can also be mentioned in this context. Common to Vattenfall and LKAB is that the companies lack specific social assignments, but their importance for Swedish competitiveness and societal benefit should be incontrovertible. Mr President, I would like to When discussing the issue of the special social role of state-owned companies, it is not possible to ignore the Committee motion previously discussed by four parties in this House quite a short time ago to sell all state-owned companies except four. The only remaining ones in that scenario were, what I can understand, Systembolaget, Vattenfall's Nordic operations, LKAB and Apoteket. After the recent announcement of farm sales, there is also reason to question how it will be with Systembolaget's future position. Two studies have shown that this is not compatible with the exception that Sweden has to allow farm sales. But if the third investigation is about to show that it is, what about Systembolaget's future and the Swedish alcohol policy? Svenska Spel is another company that has a social mission and, through the new gaming regulation that we have decided on, shows the way to address the challenges ahead. Svenska Spel is a company that takes social responsibility and works closely with the Swedish sports movement. There are many companies with community assignments, and several have been mentioned. These are the values of hundreds of billions and about 100,000 jobs that would be affected if this exercise were to become a reality. A given question to the sportspeople is therefore what you want with state-owned companies, when the goal in the long term seems to be that most of them should be sold. Ownership in itself is certainly not an end in itself, and the portfolio of companies needs constant care and review. This has also happened during the current term of office. However, as I see it, it is important that development and good forward-looking leadership are the focus of the state-owned companies – not primarily how quickly or in what way they can be wound up or privatised. It is on this, I believe, that commitment and energy need to be given to the challenges ahead for state-owned companies.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-509	Mr President, I would like to PerPer-Arne Håkansson told us that people who are employees in the state companies are proud to be so. I think that's very good. You should always be proud of your workplace and of having a job, and I think that even those who are employed in private companies are proud to work there. A trend break, says Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, regarding the time we are in. I think if you're sitting in the gallery reading social science, you know there are booms and recessions. It goes up and down like the roller coaster on Liseberg. We came out of a deep financial crisis and were in recession, and now it's going very well. It's a boom. The sales list was the one that made me ask for a line. PerPer-Arne Håkansson claimed something that is not true, namely that we would like to sell all the state companies except a few. I would like to know where the source of Per-Arne Håkansson's claim exists. I would also, since Systembolaget is not on this sales list, like to get answers on how he got this in with farm sales and Systembolaget, which should not be sold. Rather, it has been very clear in the social debate that one should be able to combine Systembolaget's sales of wine and spirits with our companies in rural areas being able to sell a bottle of wine to tourists and thus create both jobs and increased tourism in rural areas.
i-FSp5ujw9GpQaB7x4K9A4sa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! Your party recently had a play in which you pointed out that you have SBAB and Telia on the sales list, if I put it that way. As I described, you also submitted a committee motion to the Parliament which stated that you wanted to keep the companies mentioned here but that the others would eventually be sold. You have also pointed out in the speaker's chair that it is not the responsibility of the state to own companies – you mentioned it in your recent speech – but rather that it is a matter of laying down rules for companies. I can, of course, respect that point of view, but it means in fact that state enterprises are no longer in common ownership.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-516	Mr President, I would like to There are a few companies that we have said directly that we want to sell. PerPer-Arne Håkansson mentioned two out of four and at the same time claimed that there was a whole list to be removed. This is not true. I was also talking about long-term ownership, which we have had with these companies. When we take care of them, they should be handled very responsibly. This was steered up under the alliance government. There was not a single piece of paper before, but it was settled directly between the government and the companies. There were also sustainability criteria for the companies. This work has been followed up and continued under this government with new and improved criteria. But it is also the case, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, that we stand here today because you have received a lot of criticism for the follow-up of the state-owned companies. There is much to do in the future, so Per-Per-Arne Håkansson could perhaps tell a little about how he views the Swedish National Audit Office's report and what they say. As I emphasised in my speech, there are very many different elements that are important to take into account in terms of looking to tomorrow, measuring, following up and getting these mission objectives in place. It is also important that this does not happen in seven years' time – at the pace that the government is working – but in a faster way. It is, of course, on the basis of these objectives that we can then follow this up in a good way. PerPer-Arne Håkansson will be happy to answer that.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-522	Mr President, I would like to I have to say, Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, that this is a somewhat contradictory argument, given that a few minutes ago you were in the speaker's chair and just pointed out that the state should not primarily own companies but lay down rules for them. I would say that it is perhaps AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson who will be responsible for the answer, but I understand that there is no more question time to deal with on this point right now. We'll have to get back to you.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-524	Mr President, I would like to With regard to Vattenfall, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats were happy to agree with the expansion plans in Europe; for example, the Social Democratic Government bought German coal power in 2001. Let's see how it went in the end. My question, however, mainly concerns the state bank SBAB. It openly encourages customers in northern Sweden to go to other banks. If we are now to have a government commercial bank, why should it abandon large parts of Sweden where we need competition?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-526	Mr President, I would like to Surely there is reason to highlight Vattenfall's successful work after the framed Nuon affair, which, of course, Rickard Nordin's party undoubtedly cannot escape. This has been handled well. I suppose Rickard Nordin is also pleased that Vattenfall's journey forward can now begin and that it can take on the sustainable development towards a fossil-free society. SBAB is a bank that started in the 80s, which focuses on mortgages and housing financing and in its mission emphasises that it should contribute to better housing and economics and offer Sweden's best mortgages. It is not necessarily the case that privatisation solves the problems that Rickard Nordin wants to tackle by removing SBAB from state ownership. This does not lead to better services in rural areas; rather, the conditions for many people to fund their housing may be worse.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-529	Mr President, I would like to Now the question was: How does Per-Per-Arne Håkansson see that a state-owned company abandons large parts of Sweden? It will not be better mortgages north of Uppsala because SBAB openly urges its customers to go to other banks. If we are to have a state-owned company, we will also use it, not least to manage credit financing in rural areas. This is a problem today. Why do the Social Democrats accept abandoning the whole of northern Sweden when it comes to state-owned companies?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-532	Mr President, I would like to I have not seen information that SBAB is abandoning northern Sweden. However, if there are problems and situations that there is reason to deal with and look closely at, this is handled appropriately either at the general meetings or in the ownership dialogue with the company's management. It is a good tool to use when you want to work towards the state companies. I don't think the recipe is to sell SBAB and don't think the situation would get any better. I think this would be counterproductive.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-534	Mr President, I would like to We debate NU24 Riksrevisionen's report on state-owned companies with community assignments. In the report, the committee examines the Government's letter 172, which deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on state-owned companies with social functions, and a motion that has been brought about in connection with the letter. I will begin with the motion, which in no way surprises me when it comes to the citizens' view of state ownership of companies. They write as usual that the main role of the State should be to regulate the market, not to run companies in competitive markets. According to the motionaries, state ownership of companies should be concentrated in those companies that have clear social mandates or others for central government commitments. Here it is appropriate for me to ask the question: How would it have gone with the city move in Malmfälten if LKAB, for example, had its owners on the other side of the Atlantic? Would they have invested these billions in everything that the new main level meant by moving two districts in Malmberget and Kiruna? Would the owners, if they had not been the Swedish state, have emptied the company and left? The question will have to hang in the air for now. Enough of faith in the amazing capitalism and market forces. In the letter, the Government reports its assessment of the observations and recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report on state-owned companies with community assignments. In short, it could be said that the government is giving up on the fact that the reporting has not been the best and that tightening up should take place. There is an interesting observation that the government emphasizes as important: that companies with community assignments should work out a mission target process that should be carried out for all state companies that have a parliament-decided social mission. This is also pointed out by the Alliance in its exercise. I have, of course, supported the Committee's position that the Parliament should reject the motion from the Alliance in view of the fact that a mission-related process is currently under way and that the Government intends to develop reporting to the Riksdag on how state-owned companies meet their stated goals. In this context, however, I would like to clarify my fundamental view of the state's corporate ownership. I and the Left Party do so with a special opinion in the report. I believe that the state should, to a greater extent than is currently the case, use its ownership of state-owned companies to serve societal purposes. The requirement for profitability in state-owned companies should not take precedence over social benefits. The state-owned companies will be used actively to build Sweden safer, more equal and ecologically sustainable. They should also be used to increase competitiveness and, not least, to smooth out inequalities between urban and rural areas. If Sweden is to be able to stay together and create conditions for development throughout the country, there must be equal basic conditions regardless of where you live. The state-owned companies are jointly owned by the citizens and therefore, in my opinion, have a special responsibility for people throughout the country to have equal access to services, healthcare and other essential functions of society. Mr President, I would like to I would have been pleased to have taken part in a process of engagement that would have been clear and continuous reporting when Sveaskog was commissioned by Parliament in 2002 to sell 10% of the productive forest area in favour of rural areas. Here, a proposal was sold to the Riksdag for this sale that would contribute to rural development, and the buyers would be from the locality. This would improve the conditions for survival in forest and rural areas. But what was the result? Why does no Member of Parliament from the Alliance or the government ask how the spirit of the social mission works? Why do you not ask yourself whether you followed the original idea when government property began to be sold out, of course with a good thought? But what about it? Was there development in the places where Sveaskog sold land or forest? Mr President, I would like to I can give you some information about what happened in some places anyway. Forests with a little high natural values that Sveaskog did not intend to fell were felled after someone else became the owner of the forest. The locals lost the hunt for the land that was sold. Sveaskog initially sold to stakeholders who had to point out what they were interested in buying. But the bottom line was that Sveaskog got less arrandization on its forest holdings in several locations. Sveaskog's forest holdings could sometimes be locked behind private forests that were bought along the forest roads. Sveaskog did nothing wrong; they followed a mission that they had received. But the Riksdag has never asked itself what became of the mission. Here you can really say that it is very important to follow up on community missions. They did not follow the local rule very long. There are probably many people who live in the resort who got to buy forest and where the reinforcement of the resort became as it was intended. Unfortunately, however, it was also a pure investment for many rich people who will never settle there or, for that matter, contribute to the strengthening of the countryside. The fact that there are then good buyers regardless of the idea they are investing is one thing, but the argument for the sale that was sold to MEPs in 2002 did not hold up. Mr President, I would like to What is seen today when Sveaskog goes out and bids for forest properties is that they are of such magnitude that no villagers are able to compete with money-rich investors, who buy them for either hunting or just as a safe investment. The arguments used by the Swedish National Audit Office when we debated support for solar cells the other week would certainly have been in place several times in the evaluations on social missions, namely that it should be socially viable. When it comes to the sale of our common property, whether it is forests or parts of companies, the same question should be in place when it comes to the socio-economic: Was it good or not? Madam President, I would like I support the report's proposal and would ask you to take note of the special opinion of the Left Party on the matter.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-549	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that Birger Lahti is really inspired by rural issues, and it is very welcome that we in the Center Party have more fighters for them. Birger Lahti talks about how important it is to the state companies for rural development and to make the whole country live. How does he feel then that SBAB refuses to take new customers and even openly urges old customers to go to andr a banks if they are north of Uppsala? If we are now going to have state-owned companies, is not one of the most important things that they are outside the big cities and actually exist throughout the country?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-551	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard, for the question! I'll make you happy. You can support our exercise, once you have read it, where we want SBAB to provide cash and be more active throughout the country. I'm glad you're going to support our motion, Rickard, because we think it's wrong, just like you, not to have competition in the banking market. As has been said in the debates, they withdraw and tell their local customers that they can change banks because they are not active there. As Per-Per-Arne says, it is a bank that primarily provides housing loans. We agree with you, Rickard. But we have a motion that highlights these things, and I am pleased that Rickard intends to support it.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-555	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, we agree with each other, which is a good thing. The problem is that we differ in practice. Birger Lahti's left-wing party supports a government that dismantles SBAB in Norrland. We can never accept that in the Center Party. If we are to have a state-owned company, there should be all over Sweden. Either you sell it if it's not going to be used or you have to use it. But Birger Lahti's left-wing party supports a government that is prepared to dismantle the mortgage market for SBAB in northern Sweden.
i-6oDz7qWLjprNS65YZw9Bmb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard, for the line shift! Rickard knows what it's like to be a smaller party in government cooperation. It will be fun to read about all your proposals that you were not allowed to implement during your eight years. Then I can pressure you and say: Why did you support that government that sat with these proposals? It's a little bit the same thing. We are not in a government, as you did, with all the proposals that Mr Per-Per-Arne made about Nuon and other things. But we have made a great budget and have really pushed out good things for the countryside, and Rickard knows that. And we have a motion that highlights SBAB's role as an active owner who supports the countryside, not the other way round. I'm glad Rickard's going to support it.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-559	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are the Social Liberal Party of Sweden. Our party is based on an idea of keeping two thoughts in mind at the same time, both a social perspective to protect the weak in society and a liberal perspective because we love to see independent individuals grow, develop and start businesses. The combination of these two perspectives into a well-balanced whole is the basis of social liberalism. In the balance between the social and the liberal, we have unfailing optimism and confidence in man and the society that we have created together to uphold citizens' rights and freedoms. We believe in man, and we believe in a market economy as an enabler for people's self-realisation – a market economy strengthened by certain means of control and a public framework if confidence between individual and market were to be put at risk. However, we see value in a strong public sector. But in our society, the state does not operate its own companies that risk leading to distorted competition. The task of the State is to support market forces, not to try to intrude and interfere with them by being both players and judges during the same match. The task of the State shall be to set out the framework and rules applicable to the business community and its enterprising people, not to own and operate companies. Companies should be owned and run by people, people who dare to take their own risks and realize their own dreams. Actually, that's what it looks like today. Of the country's 1.2 million companies, 99% are owned by individuals and about fifty by the state. When politicians choose to run businesses with taxpayers' money for their own pleasure, we think there is a problem. I have an example from my district at home in West Sweden, Interpreterförmedling Väst in Västra Götaland, which is a frightening example of how the public sector is putting its feet away for a fully functioning industry. If I'm going to open a gym but the municipality runs a gym that is allowed to go with great loss, why am I going to start a gym? Why should I start a hotel when the municipality intends to open its own hotel? There are many dilemmas in this, and that is why we want to see less ownership in such activities. From the public point of view, we must be constantly vigilant about the consequences of our actions. When we are now debating how our state-owned companies should be run, it can not only be from the perspective of long-term values, but also how our companies affect many of the players on the market today. Liberals take a positive view of the sales made by the government and note that it is thanks to the market opposition in the Left Party that sales have been made possible. These are certainly remarkable times when the government with one hand receives profits from these public companies while the other is trying to ban some private companies from making profits. Mr President, I would like to I commend the Alliance's reservation. Of course, we want the mission goals that we have agreed to be written so that all 23 companies have a mission goal. According to my analysis, Per-Arne Håkansson's speech was both populist and lying. I feel that this is a way of Americanising Swedish politics, and I hope it does not continue. Possibly it could also have been ignorance. We don't want to sell all the companies except four, but we want to sell the charter company SAS and the spare parts company Orio.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-569	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Said, for your speech! You mentioned that the state runs companies for its own pleasure. What does Said view as a pleasure? You mentioned gyms and hotels, so maybe that's what you meant. Does Said think it's well-used funds when 41⁄2 billion in tax money disappears from welfare because you think it's okay for companies with lower quality to take care of schools and health care facilities? Do you think that all care should be in private hands and that the state should have no control at all about these companies? In my speech, I mentioned the issue of selling out state property, in this case forest. Does Said think it has become good with the sale, which has happened without anyone asking whether this really meets the social mandate adopted by the Parliament about better living conditions for foresters and farmers in rural areas? No one's seen how it turned out. Only in 2010, several years later, when the arguments for yes, had already begun to twilight, did you take it to Parliament. M a nobody's asked if it turned out the way it was supposed to. Do you think it works well with the community mission when you sell property?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-572	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for taking the line on me, Birger! It's always fun. I'm starting to do this for my own pleasure. My analysis and perception come from what I see happening in my municipality of residence. There the municipality starts the gym though there are private gyms, and it is completely incomprehensible to me. Why should the municipality start a gym when there are schools with deficits and the students do not get the resources they need to reach the knowledge goals and be able to become their best self? However, the municipality chooses to invest resources in starting a municipal gym and a municipal hotel. Why does the municipality use resources to start a hotel when there are already several private hotels in the municipality? Many of these examples are completely incomprehensible to me, and so I formulate myself as I do. I do not think that is appropriate. We should take account of taxpayers' resources, and we should give our children and young people a dignified school. In terms of surpluses and deficits – you are talking about 4 billion, Birger – I would like to turn the discussion around and ask how Birger views the economy. What is economics? Economy is about saving resources. How do you save resources? What is the result of managing resources? Well, you go with surplus. I'd like to discuss with you how you view finances, Birger. How do you see profit? What's profit for you? Do you see no problem with us having schools that are substandard and do not deliver what they are obliged to deliver to our children and young people?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-576	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Said, for your answer. I would like to visit the municipality that opens a gym for which there is no market. I think it sounds strange, but I leave it unsaid because I can't ask about it. However, you say a great thing, Said, and that is that we should consider taxpayers' resources. You're asking about school. Do you think it's good to use tax money if a school goes bankrupt in the middle of a school year? What happens to these students? Who gets to take care of them when it says on the school's door that it has gone bankrupt? You ask what profit is to me, Said. In any case, it is not that owners can pick out over 4 billion people who do not end up where they are intended to end up, i.e. in school so that the children learn what they are supposed to learn, with the old people so that they get the care it was intended and with the health care system so that it works as we want it to work. Do you think it's better when these 4 billion disappear from welfare and become profit distribution?
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-580	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Birger. Every squandered crown is a resource that goes to waste. It is very important that we take into account the resources we get into welfare and try to use them in the best possible way. The question is what is the best possible way. Profit is a measure of more efficient work. In order to cope with the cost development we have in our welfare, many more need to contribute to innovation and development in the public sector. I therefore welcome many of those who are contributing. Then it is the task of politics to govern this, and here you and I do not have the same answers and solutions. But something we have the same answer to is the nationalisation of the school, that is, that we want the same school money for everyone. We want the young people in Trollhättan to have the same school money as those in Vänersborg. That is not the case today. Children and young people in Trollhättan have significantly lower school allowances than those on the other side of the municipal border. We have a consensus here. Let me ask Birger Lahti a rhetorical question. You asked me what I'm saying to the young people who go to a private school that's closed down. But what do you say to the young people who attended the school in Rosengård who had to close? It was a public school. I don't want any school to go bad or make losses. I want all our young people to have a good school that focuses on knowledge. I do not think we need to devote so much of our political discussions to discussing profits, but we need to discuss quality and how our children and young people can achieve the knowledge goals.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-587	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin, for safety's sake, by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 5. Today we are debating the report of the Social Security Committee 23, which deals with the government proposal for reform of support for people with disabilities. The Government proposes the introduction of two new social security benefits: nursing allowance for parents with disabled children and additional costs for children and adults with disabilities. The current benefits are therefore abolished. The Swedish Democrats believe that the part of the Government's proposal relating to care allowances and additional costs for children and parents is good, and it is particularly good that the support can now be combined with part-time work and that it can also be paid to both parents. On the other hand, the government's original proposal meant that the special rules on flat-rate compensation for the blind and severely hearing-impaired who currently exist would cease to apply and that compensation could instead be provided for the additional costs incurred as a result of their reduction, i.e. that no guaranteed compensation would be the basis. This group is therefore today entitled, under the current rules, to compensation at a certain level without having to account for its additional costs. The Swedish Democrats have been critical of this and, like the Alliance, have called for a rejection of this very change. The Swedish Democrats have stated that it would entail an unreasonable burden of accounting for the applicant and that this might result in an unfair outcome depending on what resources and what help from the environment the applicant has. Applying for additional expenses is a demanding process, and therefore it can be difficult for the applicant to account and difficult for the Social Insurance Agency to determine what is the additional cost. The proposal will therefore not be legally secure or predictable. It is therefore very gratifying that a unanimous committee has now supported the proposal to maintain the current specific rules for blind and severely hearing impaired people and thus to support the Swedish Democrats and A Alliance's movements. Mr President, I would like to A number of consultation bodies note that these disabilities largely entail similar needs for all those affected by them and that a certain guaranteed flat-rate compensation is therefore entirely reasonable. Several of the consultative bodies also pointed out that the government's proposals risk hitting their members hard. Blind and severely hearing-impaired people are often a disadvantaged group, both economically and in terms of the labour market. Many people already have lower incomes and lower economic opportunities than the population at large. The government's proposal to remove the stencils would reduce their ability to control their lives. I am therefore pleased, as I said, that the government turned the issue and now chooses not to proceed with the proposal. At the same time, I fully understand the views of some consultation bodies that the conditions should be equal for everyone with disabilities and that the trial should be based on the individual's need for support. But I think, like the committee, that in this case it is a matter of people who find it very difficult to compensate for the loss of sight and hearing. The committee also notes that there may be a need to be able to return help from the environment. This could include, for example, compensation for petrol costs or baby-sitting that a loved one or someone else has provided and that one wants to replace. With disability benefit, this has been possible in the past and has meant a valuable freedom and great security. As a result, the proposal on additional costs could lead to significant deterioration. Therefore, although we are positive, we are not yet fully satisfied with this, but we would have liked to see further improvements in support for people with disabilities. The Authority for Participation has stressed in its referral that it is important to create a system of individual assessments that is not too administratively burdensome for the individual or administrator. Accordingly, we believe that support for adults with disabilities needs to be further reviewed in order to avoid unnecessary red tape. The Swedish Democrats are also critical of the fact that the new nursing allowance for pure help needs should not cover adults. Here we believe that it is highly unclear whether the extra cost compensation should cover these needs. This lack of clarity worries me and also many people who are disabled. The proposal also shows that there are no statistics and statistics on the need for assistance previously invoked as a basis for disability benefit. What the consequences of removing that part of the aid are, we think, too uncertain. The organisation Functional Rights Sweden believes that once the need for assistance in the current disability benefit is removed, the pressure on other community support is likely to increase, and they are concerned that support measures may not be available. It is a concern that I share, and I agree that it is important to follow up those who now lose their support so that no one gets between the chairs. Mr President, I would like to People with mental disabilities, who find it difficult to take part in LSS interventions and are often completely dependent on relatives, may be affected when the help element for adults disappears. In many cases, the needs can be met by other subsidies, but we believe that there is a risk that many people will end up between the seats. It is difficult to see the consequences of the government's proposal when we have not yet seen the result or the report of the LSS investigation and what changes could result from it. I simply lack a better assessment of the consequences. It is, of course, reprehensible to attack an already severely vulnerable group, and that is why we believe that the disability benefit for clean relief needs should remain until the government returns with a completely new reformed proposal that is more legally secure and includes compensation for relief needs. We also believe that the government should wait until the LSS investigation is completed before a new reformed support is presented. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that several consultation bodies have criticised the upper age limit of 65 years for being granted additional costs. We believe that this limit needs to be made more flexible and adjusted upwards, as many people choose to stay in work for a longer period of time. The government should therefore examine the possibility of adjusting the upper age limit to the actual retirement age and so that compensation for those still in work can also be granted for disabled persons who have occurred after the age of 65 and are not dependent on age. Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 4 and 5.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-606	Members and listeners! The Left Party believes that the purpose of the Government's proposal is good, but there is a risk that several of the proposals will have the opposite effect. We share the government's problem picture: that the regulatory framework is unclear and that there are shortcomings in the predictability of decisions. However, we do not believe that these proposals will remedy the problems. For example, predictability would be reduced if the guaranteed level were removed for certain groups. One of the consequences of the proposals in the bill is estimated to be a cost saving of SEK 30 million. According to the Government, the reduction is due to the disappearance of the benefit component of the current disability benefit, although the additional costs are estimated to increase as more people qualify for that benefit. This makes us see a risk that the savings will affect those who today are deemed to be in need of help for whom they are being compensated. We also believe that the consequences of converting the care allowance into a nursing allowance are not sufficiently investigated and that the Riksdag should therefore reject the proposal. I would therefore like to ask you to accept reservation 1. Today, disability has three levels. Compensation can be provided for assistance needs exceeding two hours a day and additional costs above a certain level. The need for assistance and additional costs are taken together in the decision. In 2014, around 64,000 people received disability benefit. Of these, 53 per cent were women and 47 per cent were men. There are no precise figures on how many will be affected if this compensation is removed, but it is expected that around 20% will receive lower or no compensation at all, especially because the need for assistance as a basis is removed. The Government considers this to be in line with the national objective of disability policy, which is to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation of persons with disabilities in a society based on diversity. However, we believe that the Government's proposal risks reducing social security and counteracting full participation through its formulation. Furthermore, the requirement for the strict burden accounting risks restricting other rights contained in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, articles dealing with freedom, choice and integrity. The study to obtain more cost-reimbursement risks being a violation of privacy and a restriction of freedom, thereby hindering equality in living conditions and participation. In the bill, the government proposed to abolish the flat-rate compensation for the blind and severely hearing-impaired. The remuneration would instead be determined on the basis of the impact of a disability, and on an individual basis. It may sound fair and self-evident that it is the individual's needs that should decide and that it should be clear what is the basis for the compensation. We think that the administrator should carry out an individual needs assessment is basically a good thing, as a disability can have different consequences for different individuals. Unfortunately, we have seen greater restrictiveness in the assessments made by Försäkringskassan in recent years in, for example, decisions on health insurance and assistance compensation, despite the fact that LSS is a law on rights. It is therefore a good thing that a united committee has decided to retain the flat-rate compensation. Many studies show that people with disabilities are an economically vulnerable group that is largely excluded from the labour market. In the visually impaired group, unemployment remains constant at about 50 per cent, regardless of whether it is high- or recession. Among those who have work, the average wage is low. People with disabilities are among the most economically vulnerable in society. Most people can probably also understand that if you can't see or hear anything, have problems moving yourself or problems to understand and express yourself, there are a lot of problems in everyday life that can drive costs. Disability has meant a great deal and has been able to compensate for the shortcomings of other aid schemes. This proposal should be balanced with other impairments for the disability group. It is true that disability benefit was designed at a time when, for example, LSS was not involved in interventions such as assistance and assistance. Unfortunately, we know that this law of rights, which has meant so much to people with disabilities, does not always work today. The number of refusals is increasing, and many have lost their assistance. The visually impaired usually have no right to assistance. The accompanying kit has been significantly reduced and, if granted, few hours are given. We in the Left Party cannot therefore agree that the need for aid is being removed until the LSS starts to act as a right law again and guarantees that people receive the support and help they need. The care allowance is usually paid to the parent with whom the child is registered. 85% of those receiving care allowance are women. The care allowance and the additional cost allowance shall be allocated to both parents if both care for the child. It should be distributed according to the parents' wishes, and in the event of different opinions, the Social Insurance Agency may assess needs based on how much the child lives and stays with each parent. With regard to the new care allowance, the change risks paying to both guardians a further deterioration of the economy for single women, who are already financially vulnerable. The aim of increasing gender equality and increasing the responsibility of men for children is a good one. However, as long as single women are more economically vulnerable than men, it is the wrong way to go for them to deteriorate. As we know, it is usually women who take the greatest responsibility for children, and especially for children with special needs. It is clear from the bill that women go down in working time when they have disabled children, while men with disabled children go up in working time. The Government's impact assessment for gender equality has assumed that this will increase men's responsibility for children. We believe that this will lead to women becoming poorer. In addition, the application can be handled jointly even if it is made by separated parents individually, which means that both receive a party's insight. This can have devastating consequences for women who live hidden. In addition, Försäkringskassan believes that their administrative costs will increase more than the government believes, including as both guardians can apply for nursing allowance and additional expenses for the same child. Investigations will be more demanding in cases where parents disagree. The government should therefore come back with a proposal in which the consequences of introducing a nursing allowance have been further analysed, in particular for the group of single women. Once again, I call for the approval of reservation 1. As this is my last speech in this House, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Swedish people and those who have voted in favour of the Left Party for having been able to hold this position for almost 16 years.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-620	Mr President, I would like to As politicians, we are often invited to various organisations that represent people with different disabilities. They want to tell us how their everyday life works and how it is to live with a disability. Sometimes we get to test what it's like to miss a mind. It may be trying to get around in a wheelchair in an inaccessible environment. It can be getting ear protectors to understand how tough it is not to hear. And it may be getting blindfolded to get some insight into what it's like not to be able to see. I have a confession to make. I'm cheating. I usually make sure that there is a small glip in this blindfold, because I find it very unpleasant to not be able to see. As soon as I have the opportunity, I rip off my blindfold to get my vision back. But those who live with these disabilities cannot rip off their blindfolds, remove their hearing protectors, or get out of the wheelchair. This is a reality and a daily life that they must learn to handle. I believe that our mission as a politician is to do what we can to facilitate the life situation of those individuals with disabilities. Today's report deals with reformed support for people with disabilities. There were many sensible proposals for improvement in the original bill. But there was one thing that we Liberals could not support, and that was to remove the flat-rate compensation for the deaf and the blind. Disability benefit has been applied for by those who have had a disability leading to increased additional costs due to this disability. But those who are deaf and blind have failed to pinpoint their increased expenses. They have received a sum that is linked to their disability. I am liberal, and I do not think that people should be divided into groups. I think that one should start from the individual's needs. But in this case, I would like to make one of the steps away from that principle, as I believe that this only means a lot of bureaucracy for those groups that have disabilities that cause them to face similar obstacles and difficulties in society. That is why I am very pleased with the proposal which is on the table today and which means that we will not change this exception rule. We Liberals also want the extra cost compensation to comply with the effective retirement age and not the target age, as it is today. We want the level to be raised or re-granted if you still work after the age of age. We also want to see an opportunity to be reimbursed for costs that cannot be invoiced. One example of this may be the services of friends and family, such as being driven somewhere in a car. Then it is not possible to get a receipt of the increased cost. This would be significantly more cost-effective than the need for the individual to use travel services or escorts. In addition to the extra cost allowance, there is a proposal to change the care allowance and now to call it the nursing allowance. Now both parents will have the opportunity to benefit from the nursing allowance. I see that as a liberal as something very positive, as it leads to a more equal relationship where both guardians can be involved in the child's care. We Liberals also want greater coordination between the nursing allowance and the parental allowance, what we call the care of children in everyday life – or vab, when we talk a little carelessly. Today, it is not possible to get parental benefit if you need to accompany your disabled child to school to inform school staff about the child's disability and illness, but it depends entirely on having an employer who is willing to be absent from work. We don't think that's okay. I support reservations 3 and 6.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-629	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal in the SfU report23. The proposal for reformed support for people with disabilities has several elements that are long awaited by many. It has been developed over a long period of time, and three different governments have been working on the issues. This work has led to this proposal. For us Social Democrats, it is important to shape a society where everyone is needed and where everyone can participate. Persons with disabilities should be able to be fully involved in all aspects of political, social, economic and cultural life. This is how we create a stronger society and a safer Sweden for all. For us social democrats, it is therefore important that there is workable support that makes it possible to do just that. Disability policy concerns all policy areas; it concerns jobs and schools, community building, health care, childhood and care for the elderly. Ultimately, however, it is a question of human rights. In order to shape a society where everyone is needed and where everyone can participate, it is important that the support we have modernized and follow the development of society. The current regulatory framework on disability benefit and care allowance has several shortcomings and is not sufficiently predictable and clear. It is therefore a proposal that is more consistent with what it looks like today and in the future.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-634	Nursing allowance should be available for children in need of care and supervision based on their disability. The allowance must be made available to parents or to persons who can be treated as parents. The grant is intended to improve the financial condition of the parents to meet the child's needs for care and supervision based on a disability. The nursing allowance is not intended to compensate for loss of income. The proposal for a nursing allowance should not mean any change in the target group of the care allowance we have today. What is also new in the proposal and very good is that opportunities are now being created for parents to distribute care. It is important that both parents have the same opportunity to meet the child's needs. Giving both parents the same opportunity to care for the child signals equal responsibility, and it is thought that it increases the child's opportunities for close and good contact with both his parents. There is a clear perspective on children's rights and gender equality, which is welcome. As with the care allowance today, the need for personal assistance should not be affected by the provision of care allowance. That's two separate things. Parents of children with disabilities often have a greater mental and physical burden than other parents. There are usually higher demands on parents' availability and flexibility. The right to part-time work would give these parents a better opportunity to combine their parental role with their working life. The right of parents of children with disabilities to reduce their working hours by 25% is therefore an important and welcome part of this proposal. The new benefit may be granted to a person who, before the age of 65, has had his or her functional capacity reduced and who considers that the reduction will be for at least one year. The aim is to reimburse additional costs arising from the disability. These may include, for example, the cost of daily life support, health, care, diet and travel. The group entitled to additional costs is basically the same group as today is entitled to health care allowance and disability benefit. According to the Government proposal, everyone with different disabilities would be assessed individually on the basis of the new additional cost compensation. It is also something that has been run by many organizations within the disability movement. Many have wanted support to be given on the basis of needs and not on the basis of diagnosis. In essence, compensation should be based on the consequences of a disability and on an individual assessment. At the same time, this particular proposal has caused great concern, particularly in the group of the deaf and the visually impaired, which today has flat-rate reimbursement based on diagnosis. I myself was out in Coins Square and received a petition against the proposal to remove the flat-rate compensation that those organisations had done. I guess many politicians, like me, have met the various interest groups in different contexts where they have expressed their concerns. The government's proposal was not intended to save money or create concern for the people in need of support, but to provide security for everyone according to their needs, regardless of their disability. In view of the concerns raised by the proposal, the committee also agrees to maintain flat-rate compensation for the blind and severely hearing-impaired groups. Today's rules for these groups are therefore incorporated into the new additional cost reimbursement. On the other hand, the levels are changing to match the new levels of additional cost reimbursement. Finally, I think it is important to point out from the wording of motions that the government intends to follow up and evaluate the reform within a few years. Not all the consequences of a new reform are foreseeable, and it may be difficult to assess whether some of the proposals will have the effect we want to see. Monitoring and evaluation are therefore an important part of further work.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-642	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are discussing an issue that is very important to a great many people, namely those who, for various reasons, need the help of society to cope with their everyday lives. This concerns the proposal for reformed support for people with disabilities. The Government's proposal called for the removal of the special rules currently in place for blind and severely hearing-impaired people, with guaranteed compensation at a certain level, and for compensation to be provided only for the additional costs resulting from the reduction. This was a proposal which raised great concern within the groups affected by the proposal, and we Moderates, together with the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, chose to listen to these concerns and work towards maintaining these rules. We believe that the special rules for the blind and severely hearing-impaired need to be maintained. These are people who find it very difficult to compensate for the loss of sight and hearing. These disabilities affect people who have them in a similar way. It also means having difficulty in orienting, communicating with the environment or taking in information. It will be very difficult to assess your additional costs as you cannot make price comparisons or take part of offers. In addition, this group has a great need for assistive devices, and they often visit medical care and habilitation. In addition, the special rules on disability compensation for the blind and severely hearing-impaired have been in place for a long time. We believe that it is unreasonable for them to have to substantiate their additional costs with receipts or the like. It creates bureaucracy and uncertainty that we do not want to see in this. It would also be difficult, or even impossible, to return informal services from the environment. This may include compensation for e.g. petrol costs or baby-sitting. With the current disability benefit, this has been possible and has provided valuable freedom and security for a long time. The government's proposal was therefore in danger of bringing a deterioration for this group compared with the disability benefit that they are guaranteed today. That's why we used to exercise together to keep it there. We are pleased that the government parties have now backed up from the government's original proposal to abolish the special rules that apply to the blind and severely hearing-impaired and instead supported our motion. Otherwise, we think it is a good thing that both the disability benefit and the care allowance are now being reformed in order to be more consistent with current disability policy. The current regulatory framework has its shortcomings, including in terms of predictability and transparency. It is not clear what needs are to be replaced and to what extent the requirements are to be met in order for grants to be awarded, nor what is actually or should be counted as an additional cost is clearly stated in the current regulatory framework. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to thank the committee for its good and productive work together, and I welcome the final product that we are with here today. I hereby support the Alliance's motion and, therefore, the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-652	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying and important that we can now, after a long process, reform the support given to people with disabilities. The current support for people with disabilities, disability benefit and care allowance fulfil important functions for the disability policy objectives of equal participation and equal living conditions. According to the current rules, disability benefit is granted to persons with reduced functional capacity for the needs of daily living or working. Compensation is also provided for significant additional costs arising from the disability. Care allowance is granted to a parent for the supervision and care of children who need it due to illness, mental disability or other disability or if there are additional costs. A common feature of the two grants is that there is a balance between help and care needs and additional costs. The government has now proposed to reform the support for people with disabilities by introducing two new benefits – a nursing allowance and a pure additional cost benefit for both adults and children. In doing so, it is proposed to abolish disability and care benefits. There are several reasons why the government is proposing to reform aid. One of the reasons for this is that the balance of assistance needs and additional costs make it difficult for both the person seeking the benefits and the Social Insurance Agency to follow the outcome and in some cases also understand the decision. The design of the regulatory framework is simply not sufficiently predictable and transparent and is very unclear in many parts. For example, there is a lack of clear guidelines on how the balance between relief needs and additional costs is to be made. Another reason is that a great deal has happened in society since aid was introduced and that today there are other subsidies designed to help with what was previously included in the aid needs. Basic to the proposed reform has been to simplify the regulatory framework so that they are easier to understand for the individual and easier to handle for Försäkringskassan. The rules have remained largely unchanged since the 1970s. Much has happened since then, both in disability policy and in society as a whole. The government has therefore concluded that a modernisation of aid is needed. That is the proposal that is now before Parliament. The Government proposes a new nursing allowance that is given to parents with children who have a disability. The current rules on child custody allowance have not encouraged equality of parenthood and have not put the child's needs first. We therefore find it very gratifying that we are now ensuring that the benefits can be shared equally between both parents or with persons treated as parents, such as a parent's spouse. This is an important gender equality measure and an important adjustment in order to adapt support to the current situation of families. It enables both parents to meet the child's needs and thus increases the child's ability to have a close and good relationship with both parents. Those who receive care allowance should also be given the right to reduce their working hours by a quarter, which is a very important reform to ensure that work with parenthood can be reconciled even when the child has a greater need. The proposal proposes to replace the current disability benefit with a pure compensation that only relates to the additional costs. The new extra cost compensation will be clearer, simpler and more generous than the previous aid. The threshold into the compensation is lowered, the ceiling is slightly increased and more levels of compensation are introduced. You can now get compensation in five levels against previous only three. This means that more people will have access to the compensation. Those with high additional costs receive better compensation, and the more differentiated levels make the compensation more equitable according to each person's specific needs. This is very positive. The legislation also clarifies what costs can be reimbursed for. These clarifications, which are not and cannot be exhaustive in their entirety, are lacking in current legislation, which has contributed to the ambiguity of disability benefit. Having said that, I have great sympathy for the concern expressed by many visually impaired and hearing-impaired people about the consequences of the proposal with the removal of the guaranteed flat-rate compensation in the way proposed from the outset. We had hoped, through the proposal in the proposal, to bring about new modern support based on the principle of equal treatment, in which support is given to all groups according to needs and not diagnosis. But, of course, we have also taken on board the criticisms and concerns that have come to us. We are keen to see this legislation put in place, which otherwise means a long-awaited and important modernisation of aid. It will mean more people stepping into the compensation and more people getting more equitable remuneration, better support for parents and, above all, more and more people getting a more clear and transparent regulatory framework. Mr President, I would like to In so doing, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-4cb5a30f3aad03ea-666	Mr President, I would like to Reforming support for people with disabilities is particularly important. The world is changing, and conditions are changing in our society. This means updating and modernising that part of our social network. One of the points that I and the Center Party specifically want to point out is, of course, the one that allows parents or equivalents to be able to share the compensation they receive when they have a child or a young person who has a disability that entitles them to do so. As we have heard here before, this means that it does not always, as it is almost now, become the mothers who charge the compensation. In addition to being able to share the remuneration between the parties, you should now be able to work part-time. This is extremely important, because we want both sexes to have equal opportunities in the labour market. The extra cost allowance, which is intended to replace what is today called disability benefit, is very difficult to establish. Anyone who has come into contact with this in one way or another knows how detailed these forms must be completed if you want today's disability benefit. A report from the ISF shows quite clearly how uncertain it is who is to be granted today's disability benefit. ISF says and writes that it is based on a reasonable assessment, and the person who will assess the merits is the administrator of Försäkringskassan. It is therefore up to this person to interpret that what he says is reasonable. Then we understand how different the assessments are. This is certainly not equal treatment and justice. The proposal now before us does not increase clarity, but it has been said that it should be followed up and reviewed specifically. We sincerely hope that this will be done. Against this background, and knowing how it works today, there is every reason to pay particular attention to the motion we have launched in the Alliance, which is supposed to have a very small majority here today. The motion is about those who are blind and deaf being allowed to keep their flat-rate compensation. There are not different levels of being blind, not seeing, or being deaf and not hearing. Other disabilities may be degrees of, but in these particular, there is nothing that can be a degree. It is therefore important that these people should be allowed to retain the flat-rate allowance they have received, which was introduced in the 1930s. Today it is $2,500 a month, covering their need for support and help. It corresponds to what they want and need in order to be able to participate on almost equal terms in society. I asked a question to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll a couple of months ago and wondered why she was so against the flat-rate allowance. She said then that she and the government had talked with representatives of the disability movement and that they had said then that they thought the proposal that was before us was good, that is, that the flat-rate compensation was removed. In my conversations with the visually impaired, it appears that the Minister had not had a conversation with this disability movement. The Minister also said at the time of the question that she did not intend to change the proposal. Now I and the Center Party are pleased that the representatives of the government in the Social Security Committee have reconsidered and are in favour of allowing those who are blind or deaf to retain their flat-rate compensation. It's incredibly important. In doing so, Mr President, I support the Alliance's motion and the majority's proposal in the Social Security Committee that we should retain the flat-rate compensation for those who are blind or deaf.
