i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has not yet received a new government, but no matter which government we receive, Sweden needs to continue to stand up for what has made Sweden one of the world's most respected countries. Sweden is even ranked as the country in the world that has the best reputation. This comes from a long tradition of representing democratic values, and it is evident in foreign policy where Sweden has for many decades been a voice for conflict prevention, high willingness to provide aid, sustainability, disarmament and international cooperation. There is a deep conviction in our country that we can only build a more prosperous world if we cooperate and promote human rights. But that conviction is being challenged today, not only in Sweden but all over the world. Populists, doomsday prophets and extremists are gaining ground with the message that the liberal world order is not working, that democracy is not working, that foreign cultures are dangerous and that it is probably best for a strong leader to have all the power to protect us from the evil world. It is a dangerous development that must be stopped. One way for Sweden to show what we stand for is the work at the UN. The EU is our most important foreign policy arena, but for almost two years Sweden has been one of 15 members of the UN Security Council. There we have had a great impact and been able to push for issues that are central to us. These include international law, the rights of girls and women, conflict prevention and disarmament. Sweden has made a difference in a number of areas. Here are some examples. We strengthen women's voice by constantly focusing on the Council's work on women, peace and security. We have made the Security Council more explicit about sexual and gender-based violence. We give priority to children's rights. During the Swedish Presidency, Resolution 2427 on the protection of children in conflicts was adopted. We have made a difference in many of the great crises of our time. We have a special responsibility for the humanitarian issues in the Syria conflict, and we have raised the issue of Myanmar and what the Rohingyans are exposed to there. We have been very active in pushing for a solution to the conflict on the Korean Peninsula, and we managed to get under the Swedish Presidency an arms embargo on South Sudan. These are just a few examples of the successful work that Sweden has done in the UN Security Council. On 1 January next year, Sweden is no longer a member, but the contacts we have created, the impression we have made, will be important to our country for a long time. Sweden is a small country on the northern edge of Europe, but it is a country with a strong reputation. We have greater influence than most people think, and we stand up for strong values of equality, equality, democracy and everyone's equal value and right. Our reputation, our influence and our values I look forward to continuing to fight for. They can never be taken for granted. I look forward to a term of office with constructive debate, cooperation and reforms nationally and internationally in order to achieve the slogan that we Social Democrats live by in foreign policy now and for many years now: the freedom of all peoples, the peace of the whole world.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-8	Mr President, I would like to I have come to know Olle Thorell as a good social democrat, and I have to say that the speech he made now, with the exception of self-congratulation to his own party, was essentially a platform on which most people in this House can stand. I too, Mr President, have come to know Olle Thorell as a committed person in the field of nuclear disarmament and nuclear issues. I was a little fooled there. I thought that Olle Thorell's speech would focus mainly on these issues, as he usually does. Now he broadened his speech, and there was absolutely nothing wrong with it. However, I would like to ask Olle Thorell a question. I share Olle Thorell's commitment to nuclear weapons, but there is also the so-called UN ban. This is an issue on which the Social Democratic Government has been active. Now an investigation has been set up, partly because the Alliance has forced it out. The investigation is working, and I think that is basically a good thing. Could Olle Thorell develop a little bit the current social democratic view of the UN's nuclear ban?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-12	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for the fine words! I look forward to four years with Mr Wallmark as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It'll be fun and interesting. A nuclear-free world is a cornerstone of social-democratic foreign policy. We have been active internationally on these issues for decades, and we continue to be active. I am proud that, unlike the previous bourgeois government, we have raised disarmament issues, not just the question of weapons, on the table, which were absent from Bildt's leadership in foreign policy. We are now waiting for the investigation that Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin will present in a couple of weeks. Then we will have a further debate on the issues. The goal is absolutely a nuclear-free world.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-15	Mr President, I would like to All Members are waiting for a government. Then we'll see when and how it comes. So to the question of nuclear disarmament. The central point is that we must involve the states that have nuclear weapons. That is the problem and the challenge of the UN's so-called nuclear ban, that is, that none of the nuclear weapons states are involved in it. The risk is that you short-circuit processes. The answer that Olle Thorell gave was more nuanced than what I have heard from the Foreign Minister before. I welcome that.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-18	Mr President, I would like to The investigation will come later. It would be wrong to anticipate it. On the other hand, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the other bourgeoisie have already established, before the investigation, that they are against the ban on nuclear weapons. I think that's a shame. It would be reasonable to do in the normal Swedish way, i.e. to investigate things, take part in the investigation and then make decisions.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-19	Mr President, I would like to Olle Thorell has invited Swedish Doctors against Nuclear Weapons and the International Women's League for Peace and Freedom to a seminar in the Riksdag next week about the upcoming investigation that was discussed in the last shift and what consequences it would have if Sweden signed the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. The investigation will be presented in two weeks. Basically, the entire investigation is a compromise between Minister for Foreign Affairs Wallström and Minister for Defence Hultqvist because they do not seem to agree whether Sweden should sign or not. And the question of government will certainly be decisive because the bourgeois parties do not believe that Sweden should sign. Nuclear weapons are the most dangerous that humanity has created, and the tense relations between Russia and NATO are in danger of contributing to increased confidence in the deterrent capacity of nuclear weapons, resulting in armaments and a balance of terror. Such a development would be devastating for the conditions for building peace and security in the Nordic countries, Europe and the world.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-23	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, which I can take the opportunity to welcome to the Foreign Affairs Committee and foreign policy! I look forward to many debates with you, Håkan. When it comes to whether or not to sign, we have said that we are waiting for the investigation, and then we will take a position on this. We do not know what is in the investigation, and it would be wrong to anticipate it. On the other hand, on the left of the centre of Swedish politics, we agree that we should have a nuclear-free world and that it is logical that nuclear weapons should be allowed to make the same journey as anti-personnel mines, chemical and biological weapons and cluster weapons. They have been banned in international agreements, despite the same arguments put forward earlier by Mr Wallmark that there is no point in doing this unless the large users are involved. It applied to all the types of weapons I have just mentioned, but it was certainly possible to ban them too. If this is the right way forward, we will take a stand after the investigation has arrived. But a nuclear-free world, yes, absolutely.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-27	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little sad that the Social Democrats look like they might screw up this issue. If this had not been put into an investigation, but decided it when the government was in earnest and not as a transitional government, it would actually have been possible to move towards a nuclear-free world. Now you end up in an investigation and in the government issue deciding. I believe, like Olle Thorell, that the best thing would be for us to sign, and I think that the Social Democrats could be clearer on this point. Let's see. The investigation will come soon, and this will be a hot question.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-30	Mr President, I would like to I did not hear any question from Mr Svenneling, and I think I have already answered that. The investigation will be in two weeks' time, and we will carefully consider what it will achieve.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-31	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Olle Thorell about the Swedish person imprisoned in China – Gui Minhai. He has been in prison since January 2018. The months pass. Nothing's happening. China has admitted that Minhai is under coercive measures. It's time for action. It is time to act and to do so openly. A Swedish citizen should be able to rely on the Swedish government to do everything. Right now there is no government without an expedition government, but it is important to continue to act for Swedish citizens who are imprisoned and who are in difficult circumstances.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-33	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Margareta Cederfelt is addressing the case of Gui Minhai, and it is not just that case that is important. Always when Swedish citizens are imprisoned abroad, it is important that we as a nation stand up for them and do everything we can to ensure that they have a fair trial and that they are released in cases where it is totally unreasonable that they are imprisoned, as is the case with Gui Minhai. The government has worked for, and I expect the government to continue to work for, that he will be released immediately and have access to medical care, get to meet Swedish diplomatic staff and so on. I do not have up-to-date information on what work is going on, but I agree with the concerns that Margareta Cederfelt has about his safety and demand that he be released immediately from here.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-35	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we agree, but action must be taken. Just as Olle Thorell says, it is not only Gui Minhai who is imprisoned. Dawit Isaak is another person who is much debated. It is important to act now. Four years have passed. Nothing has been done that is visible in the media. In this context, diplomacy is important, but, I believe, also with public action to put pressure on the countries that have imprisoned Swedes.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-37	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we should pay attention to such things, but there is also a reason why quiet diplomacy is called quiet diplomacy, and it can produce results. Now I am not talking about this case, but in general there may be a point in not always proclaiming everything you do in the media. However, I think that our government has been clear in demanding the immediate release of Minhais Gui.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-39	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, let me focus on our core values – the one that also applies to the Swedish authorities, including our foreign administration. Let's go to the constitutions. All public power in Sweden is based on the people. The Swedish National Board is based on free opinion formation and on universal and equal voting rights. It is implemented through representative and parliamentary government and through municipal self-government. Public power is exercised under the laws. In addition, Paragraph 2 states that public power must be exercised with respect for the equal value of all human beings and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. And in Section 4, it is said that the Parliament is the main representative of the people. ..................................................... This is our foundation. That is what we are standing on. Now there has been a roll-call with 261 signatories, with a significant number of staff in our foreign administration. The move has been about the values of a future government. I believe that there is nothing else to relate to than what the very form of government states. Nor can there be any doubt whatsoever that individual employees are loyal to anyone or anything other than the people's elections, as reflected by the 349 members who make up the Swedish Parliament and the Prime Minister and thus the government tolerated by this House. This may be tiresome by the President who knows the Constitution, but it is worth recalling. So it is not possible to clap around this call and dismiss it as a mistake. It is not only possible to shrug your shoulders and look in another direction, because ultimately it is about the commitment behind the foundation on which the public power rests in Sweden. Policy defines the framework and sets the direction. Officials help and assist. What is worse is that some people, part of recklessness, others perhaps of political zeal, risk throwing a sad light on all the more than 4,000 employees in the departments who represent Sweden abroad. There is a risk of spreading doubts about all the loyal and hard-working representatives of the Swedish Foreign Service. From the red-green parties it has been strange and sad quiet about this. For in these times of great and wide-ranging challenges, there must be no doubt about our common values. To mention some of the problems we have before us, there are everything from Russia's ager spirit, China's position in the world and the risk of a Brexit that slips us all out of our hands to the continuing need for poverty reduction, a growing number of people on the run, and the risks that the global economy faces through intensified customs battles – to mention some of the problems that we have before us. Around many of these issues and how to deal with them there is a broad participation in the Swedish Parliament. We shall continue to be a country which emphasises international cooperation and free trade and which stands up for fundamental human rights and freedoms. In order for there to never be any doubt about our values, we as Members of Parliament must also protect the Swedish foundation: ..................................................... It's as simple as that. More people should say that, even in the context of foreign policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-49	Mr President, I would like to I would have expected Mr Wallmark to speak in his speech – a little applause for not doing so in his first speech during this parliamentary term! I think Hans Wallmark will talk so much about NATO that if we put up a slate and drew a line because every time he does it it will be filled quite a long time before the end of his term of office. I think it is fundamentally good that Hans Wallmark talks about how we can make ourselves safe and feel that we can defend ourselves, but the question is whether he has any suggestions to reduce tensions. NATO membership, we know, will increase the tension between East and West, and it increases the risk of escalating situations. So what's the Moderate's best proposal for detour, Hans Wallmark?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-51	Mr President, I would like to On the Speaker's board, Håkan Svenneling is now leading in the use of the word. The reason I did not use it was that I wanted to emphasise the issues on which I suspect we have very broad consensus in this House. Now I happen to know, Mr President, that on the issue of NATO there are certain dissonances, some differences, which I fundamentally regret. But I promise that over the next four years, when my party may be in a government position or in opposition, I will be pushing public opinion on this issue because I believe it is essential in Swedish security building. I believe that relaxation is done through clarity. Sweden should be a clear foreign policy voice. That is why good external management is needed, as I emphasised. But we also need a strong defence force to back this up, and that is why the Moderates have agreed that we need to go up to 2% of GDP in defence expenditure. We therefore need both diplomacy and a strong Swedish defence.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-53	Mr President, I would like to I was a little disappointed; I didn't hear exactly what the Moderates' best suggestion was. If it's 2% of the bnp to the defense that's the best suggestion to get off voltage, I'm a little worried. I believe that the soft measures, which foreign policy nevertheless stands for, have many great advantages. It is good to stress the importance of diplomacy and that we should have a well-functioning external administration. But it is also important to stress the importance of aid, that people do not live in poverty, that there is transparency and not censorship, and so on for us to have an open and free world. I would like to hear again what is the best suggestion of the Moderates.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-56	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what I said in my speech. Poverty reduction and awareness of how many people are on the run – the tools of diplomacy – are needed. But the Left Party and also other parties to the left of the centre tend to ignore the importance of having a balance between the foreign policy tools, diplomacy, and the muscles of a strong defence – in cooperation with others, for example through NATO.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-57	Mr President, I would like to Responsibility for the vast majority of the world's refugees rests with the UNHCR. Refugees are defined in accordance with the 1951 Geneva Convention. However, there is one group that is distinguished from all others: 5.4 million Palestinians in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Gaza, Judea and Samaria. These are registered as refugees according to Unrwa – a strongly criticised UN organisation. Unrwa has often been criticised for corruption and for its anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic education system. Last year the NGO revealed the anti-Semitism and violent extremism of UN Watch Unrwa employees. This led me to ask a question to the Minister for Development regarding Sweden's support to the organisation, which then amounted to a total of SEK 370 million. The answer from Isabella Lövin was: a government has full confidence that Unrwa and its staff can carry out their important mandate and see no basis for questioning Unrwa's impartiality. This despite 41 named Unrwa employees celebrating Hitler, spreading anti-Semitism and supporting terrorism on their Facebook pages. Unrwa was formed to take care of Palestinian refugees after the Arab countries lost their war of aggression against Israel in 1948. The Jewish refugees in the Arab countries who had their homes confiscated during the war and had to flee were not given much help from the outside world while Unrwa was created for the Palestinians. Unrwa supports Palestinians who live as full citizens in Jordan, among others, but also Palestinians governed by the Palestinian Authority. The refugee status is handed down, and we are now in the fourth generation, which continues to receive refugee support from the UN agency. No one else can inherit refugee status. It is certainly very strange, as many of these Palestinians have established themselves in other countries and have even acquired citizenship. However, according to Unrwa, they are still refugees and thus receive support. One can rightly assume, as several assessors in both Israel and the West do, that the Arab world and the international community are keeping the Palestinian refugee situation alive for it to be used as a political weapon in the debate. In this game Sweden participates through its large contributions of tax money. And now the former Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, has promised new billions to Unrwa. The day after her head Prime Minister Löfven was deposed by the Riksdag, she flew with the government plane to New York to raise money for the organization. This was done together with Jordan's Foreign Minister and in the presence of the Islamic Conference and the Arab League, as the newspaper Insight revealed. But just before the election, she promised to donate SEK 2 billion of Swedish tax dollars to Unrwa for four years. Sweden will therefore continue to donate money to an organisation that is repeatedly criticized for corruption, anti-Semitism and tributes to terrorism. It's over! The Social Democrats are campaigning to stand on the right side of history. The side they think is right is probably no one more than themselves who wants to stand on. The side on which they have chosen to stand has been, as most of the time through history, the same side as blood-defiled dictatorships around the world. On that side, they stand alone.
i-61bSqHqRZEWzjTXibwfmdL	Mr President, I would like to For over 1,000 days, the Swedish citizen, author and publisher Gui Minhai have been imprisoned in China. At the same time, there are terrible reports of the treatment of Uighurs in the Xinjiang region of north-west China. The Left Party has long criticised the government's dyke action against China. Regardless of which government Sweden will have in the future, the gross and extensive violations of human rights in the dictatorship of China need to be at the top of the agenda in all parts of Sweden's relations with China. So far it has been clear that both the social democracy and the right-wing parties have put economic interests above human rights. The case of Gui Minhai is more than a common consular matter. The case has become major politics and is seen by several assessors as a test balloon for the increasingly tough Chinese regime's policy against dissidents. The Xinjiang region of north-west China today describes Human Rights Watch as a police state where Uighurs are subjected to systematic mass violations of their human rights. According to a UN report from August, 1 million Uighurs are in indoctrination camps. Although the regime in China repeatedly illegally imprisons and interns dissidents, the Swedish government has chosen a very soft line. During the IMF's autumn meeting last week, the Swedish government chose to support China's greater influence on the IMF's governor's board – a line that lacks clear support in the Swedish parliament. China's human rights violations must have consequences. Economic powers must also respect human rights, and a transitional government must also act. First of all, China's human rights violations must be highlighted. Sweden should therefore work within the EU to get support from more Member States to release Gui Minhai. In recent years, the security situation in our neighbourhood has dramatically changed and deteriorated. We are seeing once again increased contradictions, military armaments and increased confrontation on our continent. It is not difficult to see the outline of a new iron curtain that descends across Europe. International law is a foundation for Sweden's security. If international law is eroded, our ability to protect our country's territory and security will be made more difficult. The Left Party is crystal clear: Sweden must be a consistent defender of international law – no matter where you break it, no matter who violates it and no matter what motives you violate it. Irregularity must always have consequences. Last spring, Parliament decided on new legislation for arms exports after many years of pressure from us in the Left Party. The idea was to introduce a dictatorship criterion, but in practice it became very vague. The Left Party wanted to impose an absolute ban on arms exports to dictatorships, to those who violate human rights and to states that are in war. Unfortunately, the other parties were not on our side, and now we have weak legislation that will allow Sweden to continue to arm rogue states. If Swedish foreign policy is to be credible, Sweden cannot, through arms exports, support states that systematically counteract the values and objectives of our foreign policy. One area that needs to be given more place in foreign policy during this parliamentary term is the issue of our climate. The temperature will rise even when the Paris Agreement is signed. The countries of the world must now move from words to action on all fronts. The impact on foreign policy will be clear, both in the form of more natural disasters and in the form of more refugees. That is why the climate issue is clearly linked to our foreign policy today. We also have many conflicts that are forgotten in the big world when the developed countries dominate. We must not forget these conflicts, but must also see, for example, the war in Yemen. There, Sweden has a great responsibility because we have exported weapons.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-75	Mr President, I would like to Even Håkan Svenneling I have come to know in the Riksdag over the past few years and appreciate him very much, not least because he is a true nordic. Now, however, I am not going to ask questions about Norway, Finland or Värmland. Mr President, I would like to It is very interesting that the Left Party is making itself the clear voice when it comes to paying attention to the crimes that are taking place in China. I welcome that. Then, of course, I can think about why at the same time one avoids talking about China being a Communist Party China. With regard to the slate that we have just talked about, and since Håkan Svenneling felt that I am using the word NATO far too much, I would like to say that I think that every time the Left Party avoids talking about the crimes of communism against humanity, it should be noted. I'd like to ask you a question. You are very committed to China. However, I think your Russia policy is a little more unclear and unclear. Therefore, I would like Håkan Svenneling to develop precisely that part so that the view of China should not obscure the view of Russia.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-78	Mr President, I would like to I have no problem saying that it is the Communist Party that governs China and that they do so in a dictatorial way, where they violate human rights. I basically have no problem saying that. Even the Chinese Embassy does not have problems when they e-mail me and tell me that it is the Communist Party and that it should create some connection with us. I don't feel this band right now. The Left Party is fully developing its policy on Russia. We believe that a way needs to be found to support the groups in Russia that stand up for human rights, civil society and freedom of expression. Russia has in some sense gone from being a very closed society to opening itself up, then having a decline and not being able to be called a democracy in the same way as it could historically be. It is in a situation where it has a very strong leadership which governs and places and which violates human rights and freedoms very clearly. This means that we need to have a dialogue with these groups in Russia. But we also need to be clear with Russia that the security situation should not deteriorate.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-81	Mr President, I would like to I wish the Left Party every success in developing its vision of Russia. I think it would have to be deepened. I share Håkan Svenneling's view that we must stand on the side of civil society and on the side of democracy fighters, who are becoming fewer and more and more crowded into a corner. In that part I fully share Håkan Svenneling's point of view. However, we must not forget the security policy threats that Russia poses. Could Håkan Svenneling perhaps shed some light on Crimea, Ukraine, Syria, Georgia and Moldova?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-83	Mr President, I would like to We don't have long replica shifts, and it feels very unusual that time is running out. As far as the countries mentioned by Mr Wallmark where Russia has entered with military power are concerned, they are violations of international law. That is why I think it is important that our foreign and security policy rests on the basis of international law. Then one can also easily say that the annexation of Crimea is a violation of international law. No matter how you look at governments, governments, and so on, it is a violation of international law. You can't get away from it. That is why I think it is good that Sweden has acted against Russia in this case.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-85	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Håkan Svenneling for his speech. I appreciate the fact that the question of the imprisoned Swede Gui Minhai was raised in China. At the same time, as Mr Wallmark said, the Left Party has not always stood on the barricades for either international law or human rights. I say VPK, Left Party Communists. The hands are still in the Left Party. Why did the Left Party not do more during the previous parliamentary term, since the Left Party supported the government, to ensure that Swedish prisoners were released? But I appreciate Svenneling's speech today, and I hope that there can be strong efforts from all parties in the Riksdag to support the release of imprisoned Swedes.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-86	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by stating that foreign policy is the responsibility of the government. Whether you have budgetary cooperation with the government or not, it does not fall within the scope of budgetary cooperation that, as a support party, or as a budget partner, you can do something about the government's foreign policy. Perhaps you can influence any aid to Burkina Faso, as we have done. We've also made sure that the embassy is still there. But so much more cannot be done as a budget partner. We in the Left Party have been clear about the crimes that have taken place in our history. No party has turned in and out of its history as much as we have done. I would not, therefore, say that there are any stripes that have not disappeared. I joined the Left Party 18 years ago. Then the party was not called VPK, and it has not done so in almost 30 years. But the bourgeoisie finds it very funny to talk about the old times – the historical time – instead of seeing where we stand today. Today, the Left Party is clearly in favour of international law and human rights, and I am very proud of that.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-89	Mr President, I would like to China is a communist regime, and it would be very dressy if Håkan Svenneling could say in his speeches that it is a communist regime that misuses international law and human rights and imprisons dissidents.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-90	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the most important thing is to constantly name which party is the governing party in different countries, but I think that the most important thing is to say what the countries are. And China is a dictatorship that is monitoring its citizens to an increasing extent, thereby violating human rights. I am concerned about this development, whether it is a Communist Party in power or if it had been someone else. Xi Jinping's leadership right now in China worries me. It is moving the world towards a development that I do not think is good, whether it be trade war or human rights.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-91	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan Svenneling for bringing up China and the case of Gui Minhai. There's a lot more people who should do that. I'm not going to dig 30 years back in time to debate with Håkan Svenneling. In fact, it is enough to stick to the present. I wonder if the criticism that Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party are making against China in the case of Gui Minhai and on many other issues is relevant to address in other directions as well. I waited to press the replica button until there were two seconds left. I had expected that Håkan Svenneling would also mention Venezuela in this context when he condemns rogue states. Venezuela is not a Communist nation. It is an anarchist nation, oppressed by a socialist and invalid regime.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-94	Mr President, I would like to I am very concerned about developments in Venezuela. I listened to Conflict on the radio with Lotten Collin. It gave a very good picture and description of the developments that Venezuela has had for quite a long time. Venezuela is a country where the differences between the poor and the rich are huge. I usually criticise the differences that exist in Sweden, but it is not possible to compare them with the differences in Venezuela. Venezuela has a situation in which it has had politicians who have tried to reduce disparities but have not always done so in the best way. But the problem is that the path of democracy has been completely abandoned. That is what worries me most about developments in Venezuela. We see human rights being violated, and we see how the people are suffering. There is no food, bread, and water for ordinary people, and many people are on the run. We have had a regional crisis, and I am extremely worried about it. It does not matter, however, what the name of the party that governs Venezuela is. Whatever it is, the outside world needs to help.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-97	Mr President, I would like to The recipe for addressing income inequality for the Left Party and for socialists around the world has rarely been to make poor people richer, but it has been to make everyone equally poor. That is exactly what is happening in Venezuela, with inflation levels of tens of millions of percent. Would Håkan Svenneling be prepared to give the people fleeing the oppression of socialism in Venezuela amnesty? Would he be prepared to make a decisive effort for those people?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-98	Mr President, I would like to I am prepared to make a decisive effort for those who are suffering in Venezuela. I don't think I'm the right person to speak about, but I think you need to look at and think about what Sweden can do. But that we do more to care about the Venezuelan people, I think is incredibly important. We shouldn't worry about who's in charge and whether they're from a right or a left party; we'll care about the people. The people of Venezuela are suffering right now, and we need to help with that. The regional crisis now needs to be resolved.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-99	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is bound by treaties to promote the EU's common foreign and security policy. Nevertheless, EU cooperation has not been a top priority in the past term of office. The fact that, as the Red-Green Government did, Sweden is launching as an independent voice and shifting its focus to the UN, which is paralysed by the right of veto, is deeply problematic. If the EU does not speak with one voice in foreign policy, the countries of Europe will become players in the margins. Without closer foreign policy cooperation, Sweden's ability to contribute and make a difference is reduced. During the term of office that is now before us, we Christian Democrats will work to ensure that the EU is once again the central arena for Swedish foreign policy. Basically, Christian democracy stands for a value-based foreign policy that always prioritises human rights. It is an essential ambition, but it is also an approach and a basic attitude that characterises positions and assessments and which today leads us to the conclusion that changes are needed to the foreign policy of the past term of office – not least in the Middle East. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new Middle East policy. Let me mention a few areas where change is necessary. Firstly, we are talking about relations with Israel. Not once before has bilateral relations between Sweden and Israel been as fucked up as they are today. Of the 28 foreign ministers of the EU countries, Sweden's Foreign Minister is the only one who is not welcome in the only democracy in the Middle East. This should be called what it is: a serious political and diplomatic failure. Sweden's relations with Israel must be restored, and that should happen immediately. Secondly, significant parts of Swedish aid for many years have ended up in the wrong pockets. For too long Swedish aid money has been passed on to organizations in Palestinian areas that are open to and spread anti-Semitism and hatred against Israel. For too long corrupt Palestinian leaders have violated human rights and paid for the condemned and their families. This is unacceptable. Until the support for terrorism and anti-Semitism is stopped, aid to Palestinian areas must be frozen. Thirdly, the persecution of religion and the abuse of the Christians of the Middle East have not even been mentioned at any time during the previous term of office in the foreign declarations of the Red-Green Government. The degree of dictatorship in the Islamic State's supposed caliphate has not led the government to see the systematics of the targeted repression of Christians, Yazidians and other religious groups. Unlike a large number of Western democracies, the Swedish government has refused to recognise IS abuses as genocide. This must change.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-105	Mr President, I would like to I do not think anyone in this House is surprised that Lars Adaktusson highlighted Israel – the Palestine conflict. Nor do I think that me and Lars Adaktusson will solve Israel – the Palestine conflict during the two three minutes we have. Regardless of what we think on the whole, however, I believe that we must always work to minimise the killing, regardless of which side it is about – Israelis or Palestinians. It is a question of finding a peaceful solution to Israel – the Palestine conflict. I think a two-state solution would be the best one. The Israeli Government has now approved 31 new homes in the city of Hebron. It is the first settlement since 2002, and it is being built where the city's bus station was previously located. In Hebron there are approximately 800 Israeli settlers in a city of 200,000 Palestinians. What does Lars Adaktusson think about the Israeli settler movement? Is it really the right way to approve new settlements if you want to resolve Israel – the Palestine conflict?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-107	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan Svenneling for the question. With regard to settlement policy and what is commonly referred to as occupation, this is often highlighted as the basis of the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis. But the basis of the conflict is the fact that Israel's neighbours and a number of terrorist organisations are threatening Israel's existence. That is where the basis of the conflict lies. Residences and occupations are symptoms of the problem itself, namely that the countries around them refuse to recognise the state of Israel. It is perfectly possible to criticise the Israeli Government with regard to settlement policy. I have done it on several occasions, and I will do it again. Anyone who has visited the Israeli Knesset has also heard that criticism is also inside Israel.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-110	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the criticism is absolutely inside the Israeli Knesset, but I think there are far too few in the Knesset who stand up for a more peaceful policy between Israel and Palestine. The situation in Hebron is much as if the Old Town were a settlement in Stockholm – as if the whole Old Town were blocked off by military and allowed the Israeli population to live inside. I think it's an unfortunate situation and something we should counteract, but what does Lars Adaktusson think? Is it right to extend the settlement in Hebron?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-112	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if I expressed myself unclear, but, as I said, I have criticised Israeli settlement policy when there was reason to do so. I'll do it again, too. But, again, it is important to see what is the basic problem of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Residences and occupations are symptoms of the problem, and the problem is that Israel's neighbours and terrorist organisations want to destroy the country fundamentally.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address three questions to Lars Adaktusson in relation to what he has just said in this House. The first question is: When did a Swedish Foreign Minister last make an official visit to Israel? The second question is: Do Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats share the view that the goal of the Middle East conflict must be a two-state solution? In view of what Lars Adaktusson said at the turn of the line with Håkan Svenneling, I must also ask: When is there no reason to criticise Israeli settler policy?
i-5gPsD8kp1N3H3FishnuGMy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kenneth Forslund, for the question. When was the last time a Swedish Foreign Minister visited Israel? It was probably quite a long time ago; I would like to say that it was too long ago. For many years there has been reason to have good relations with Israel, and an expression of good relations is to have an exchange of visitors at the highest possible political level. The fact that the Swedish Foreign Minister has good relations with Israel and is welcome there is of course very important. I do not know when it was last, but I know one thing: we have never before had a Foreign Minister who is not welcome to visit the only democracy in the Middle East. As far as settlement policy is concerned, there is cause for criticism. I have expressed it on various occasions and will put it again.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-119	Mr President, I would like to For information, I can say that the last visit from Sweden – at least what I know – was when Carl Bildt, as Foreign Minister, visited Israel in 2007. This means that this visit took place at the beginning of the first Reinfeldt government, which included the Christian Democrats. Carl Bildt was Minister for Foreign Affairs there and pursued a very clear Middle East policy that was not fully appreciated by Israel, let us put it mildly.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-120	Mr President, I would like to I have to ask Kenneth Forslund: Is the fact that a previous government has had problems with relations with Israel something that justifies the fact that Sweden today has a foreign minister who is not welcome in the only democracy in the Middle East? I do not really understand the link, and I think it is important to state that the exchange of visitors and good diplomatic relations with Israel is extremely important regardless of government.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-122	Mr President, I would like to I would like to welcome Lars Adaktusson to foreign policy debates over the next few years – I look forward to that. I reacted when Mrs Adaktusson said that our work in the United Nations is at the expense of our work in the European Union. At that time, Lars Adaktusson did not listen carefully to my speech, in which I stressed that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. There is nothing to say that involvement in the UN is at the expense of involvement in the European Union, but of course they complement each other. The UN has great concerns, but the UN also has great opportunities. We have succeeded in getting through the Paris Agreement, Arms Trade Treaty and Agenda 2030. It is a variety of things that would not have been a fact if the UN had not been there. I wonder if Lars Adaktusson has any comment on that.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-125	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that the UN is an important arena for foreign policy, but the Red-Green Government has made it clear from the outset that priority is given to this. The campaign to get a seat on the UN Security Council, as we all know, took not only a lot of time but also a lot of resources. This was the top priority for the government. In addition, it was made clear from the start in a campaign that Sweden is an independent voice in foreign policy. It simply does not go together with the fact that I highlighted at the beginning of my speech, namely that Sweden is bound to work for the EU's common foreign and security policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-127	Mr President, I would like to The line taken by Sweden and the government is as I explained: the EU is our most important foreign policy arena. Engagement in the UN is not at the expense of engagement in the EU. I would appreciate it if Mrs Adaktusson did not spread myths that we put this before European work or that it is the first and greatest, taking resources from everything else. That is simply not true, and I think it is a pity that such myths are being spread from the Parliament's pulpit.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-128	Mr President, I would like to It is not a myth; it is a quote, or a reflection, of the government's own priorities. In addition, I have been sitting in the European Parliament in recent years, and the general impression in the EU context is that in recent years the Red Green Government has been less active in the EU context, less committed to EU cooperation and targeted the UN. This is not a myth; it is a fact.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-131	Mr President, I would like to We see terrible tragedies and sorrows in the Middle East region – wars that tear up countries and drive millions of people to flight. We also receive daily evidence of the repression that is taking place in many countries in the Middle East region, with killed journalists, tortured oppositionists, terrorism, women living as second-class residents and minorities being hunted down and hunted down. When the world looks like it does, a strong Swedish voice is needed and we are clear that we stand for democracy and human rights. The problem is that the Red-Green Government has not done so during the last parliamentary term in key areas. The fact is that in several cases the government has done largely the opposite. Let us take Iran as an example. The Social Democrats have chosen to cultivate particularly friendly relations with the ayatollah dictatorship in Iran. Female Swedish government representatives paraded in front of the mullahs with the most reactionary patriarchal outfit. It was a terrible spectacle to witness. The Swedish government was closest to stamping on the values and ideals that the Iranian democracy movement is fighting for: equality, secularism and human rights. Sweden should change our policy on Iran. We must make clear criticism of the bestial abuses that are taking place in the country and give our support to Iran's hard-pressed democratic opposition. Then, Mr President, there is Israel and Palestine. The red-green government during the last parliamentary term – we now have another variant of government in Sweden – chose to constantly attack Israel, so to the point that Sweden has become a barking word in Israel. Sweden's relations with Israel have been destroyed. It is somewhat strange that the country in the Middle East with which Sweden has the worst relations is the region's only democracy. At the same time, Sweden has chosen to scatter hundreds of millions each year over corrupt Palestinian institutions that make financial contributions to terrorists and brainwash children to hate Jews. Sweden never criticises the undemocratic leadership of the Palestinian Authority. Aid is being washed over the area and virtually no demands are being made. Mr President, I would like to The third area concerns Kurdistan. The Kurds have been subjected to systematic persecution for years. They have not been given the right to speak their language or celebrate their holidays in Turkey, for example. They've been subjected to gas attacks, massacres, arabism, coercionism-- you name it. The whole toolbox for repression has been used against the Kurdish population. It goes without saying that the Kurds should be given the right to self-determination or independence, just like any other people. However, the Swedish Government strongly distanced itself from the referendum held last year in Iraqi Kurdistan. It is very strange that of all the tragedies and sorrows in the Middle East, it is a peaceful, popular expression of will that Sweden protests against. This policy must come to an end, Mr President. Sweden must become a voice for human rights and democracy in the Middle East again.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-142	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Malm says first of all that Sweden never criticises Palestine and the Palestinian Authority. It's directly wrong. When Abbas gave his famous speech at the constituency this year, Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström criticised this. Among other things, she wrote that Sweden and the EU are fighting all forms of anti-Semitism and demeaning the Holocaust and that Abbas's speech contained unacceptable positions. At about the same time, the cabinet secretary visited Palestine. She pointed out at her meetings with Abbas at the time the need for democratic progress, to combat corruption, to renounce violence and to increase civil society's space. I can continue to list examples of when Sweden and Swedish representatives, whether it be a social democratic or bourgeois-led government, have criticised the Palestinian Authority.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-146	Mr President, I would like to There is possibly here and there in some speech a sideline or so where it says that human rights are important and so on. I'm sure that applies to all countries. But in substance, the Red-Green Government has reworked Sweden's Middle East policy, which has led to Sweden having a very poor relationship with Israel today – so much so that if I go to Tel Aviv I will be yelled out if I go into a café and say that I am Swedish. Sweden has weakened relations with the only democracy in the Middle East to the point that a word of scolding has become a Swedish word. Kenneth G. Forslund mentioned Mahmud Abbas. What year is he now in his four-year term of office? Couldn't Kenneth G. Forslund answer that? What year of its four-year term is Mahmud Abbas, Abu Mazen, now on?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-147	Mr President, I would like to This is precisely one of the things that Sweden and the government are criticising. In our contacts with Al-Fatah and the PLO, we Social Democrats also criticise the fact that elections have not been held as they should in the Palestinian territories. This is a completely unacceptable situation. Fredrik Malm says that we are criticising the Palestinian Authority and Palestinian representatives, here and there, but that is not true. We present these points at every contact we have.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-149	Mr President, I would like to This is almost parody. We have a government that has chosen, openly and in front of the whole world, to constantly stamp out the state of Israel, and so to the extent that relations with the country are deteriorating that The government sprinkles millions over one of the world's most corrupt regimes – the Palestinian – and constantly chooses to ignore the enormous abuses that are taking place. Here they stand in the Parliament's pulpit and say that Sweden would be clear against the persecutions in Palestine. That's not true.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-150	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about my grandmother, who unfortunately passed away this summer. She was an amazing woman who always filled the room with warmth and love. Her only problem was that she was born a girl. It came to place enormous limitations on her. My grandmother never had the opportunity to go to school and never learned to read or write. It was an unfair gender power regime that robbed my grandmother of her human rights. Every day 100,000 girls are born who are placed in the same situation. Still 80 years after my grandmother was born, 130 million girls are denied the right to go to school. I refuse to accept that. That is why I want Sweden to continue to pursue a feminist foreign policy with full force. We are living in a troubled time when authoritarian tendencies are being strengthened and the democratic space is shrinking. Around the world, not least in our own neighbourhood, the right-wing conservative forces are strengthened. Common to these are not only xenophobia, but also anti-women's hostility and an almost obsession with taking control of women's bodies. Today we are seeing a global setback for women's sexual and reproductive rights, including the right to abortion. This occurs at the same time as 800 women die every day in complications related to pregnancy and childbirth. Unsafe abortions make up a large part of them, and most of these deaths could have been prevented. We're running out of time. With the launch of a feminist foreign policy by the S-led Government, it also promised that women's rights should never be subordinated to other interests. Women and men should have the same rights. Women should be represented where decisions are made. Gender equality shall be a priority in the allocation of resources in the form of state budgets and aid projects. Combating the systematic and global repression of women is our fellow human responsibility. But it's a lot more than that. Investing in women's development reduces poverty and builds stronger societies, democracies and economies. For example, the world economy would grow by 26% if women were to participate in the labour market under the same conditions as men. Research also shows that gender equality contributes to peace and that peace negotiations become more sustainable when women are allowed to participate. It is therefore with pride that I can look back and see what we have achieved in this period of four years. We have among other things Supporting women's representation in peace processes and judicial systems He also called on the Council and the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the EU was fully involved in the fight against organised crime and the fight against organised crime. 中 promoted SRHR and focused on increased access to midwives 中 provided financial and political support to feminist actors. Sweden's voice in the world is influential. We've shown the way. We have stood up for international law, even if it has cost. Let us continue along this path. Sweden is and will continue to be a pioneer country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-162	Mr President, I would like to I strongly support the fact that we have a general political debate as early as possible in each new term of office. This enables new Members to give their maiden speech. Mr President, I would like to I believe that what we have just witnessed was an impact greater than we have discovered and heard many times before. I must congratulate Mrs Fazelian on a wonderfully well-spoken speech in her maiden speech. That's a good promise, not because I agree with her on everything. Above all, I might perhaps describe the foreign policy of the Social Democratic and Red-Green Government in other terms. But her commitment and the issues she highlights are relevant. I also believe that many in this House share them. We may not have the same view of Foreign Minister Wallström and her policy, but on fundamental issues we have exactly the same view that Mr Fazelian has expressed in a very fine way. I therefore think, Mr President, that we can really commend the House for having these general political debates that will enable us to hear what we have just heard.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-166	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for those words. I am very pleased that there is a consensus on the need to continue to pursue gender equality in our foreign policy issues. I would prefer that we continue to declare a feminist foreign policy. In any case, I will fight for this, whether we can form a government or end up in opposition. As Hans Wallmark says, Sweden has long had a clear gender perspective – since 1996, I think – and we will continue to do so. As a social democrat, I usually say that we are proud of everything that has been achieved but not satisfied. Of course the fight should continue.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-168	Mr President, I would like to We could possibly compromise and say that it is about pursuing Swedish interests. In the debates, we emphasise the differences that exist. That is why we have the debates. But in the times in which we are now in and in the difficult state of government, I think it can sometimes be good that we also focus on what unites. What Aylin Fazelian said in his speech is one of the things that can provide a base for a great many to stand on, Mr President. That is why I think it is good that we are using this moment to emphasise not only differences but also similarities.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-170	Madam President, I would like It's not every day I agree with a moderate. But here I would like to thank you for the praise and for the continued interest in pursuing a feminist foreign policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-171	Mr President, I would like to The world is not always a beautiful place. Many gross abuses are discovered when it is too late to do something about them. Crimes against humanity can be prevented. But then we must also dare to see and denounce the misconceptions that occur, not least those that take place in organised and state-controlled forms. Trade is good and necessary, but not organ trafficking. Organ trafficking – suck that word. It is a documented fact that state-controlled organ trafficking exists in China. On the Internet there are price lists where foreign speculators are offered a new kidney for $70,000 and one liver for $120,000. According to the worldwide organization The Transplantation Society, 11 000 transplants are performed in Chinese clinics. However, according to the report Bloody Harvest, the real figure is significantly higher – between 60 000 and 100 000, claims David Kilgour, one of the report's authors and former prosecutors and MPs in Canada. In many cases the organs come from executed prisoners, as the country lacks other donation systems. Many know that the Chinese Communist regime has long allowed organs to be harvested from condemned prisoners in connection with executions. Less known is that organs on a large scale and without consent are also taken from living prisoners of conscience. In recent years these businesses have been coldly expanded to include organ looting. The report shows that Falun Gong practitioners are the largest group of those affected. Falun Gong is a meditation method based on the principles of truth, goodness and patience. But Tibetans, Christians, and Uighurs are also subjected to systematic organ theft. Testimony confirms how prisoners are executed and how the body is quickly taken care of. Valuable organs are operated out and passed on to a hospital where the organ buyer is waiting. Unfortunately, this terrifying scenario is reality, and its handling is contrary to all decency. The use of organs from prisoners has also resulted in what is called transplant tourism. Although some positive signals have come from China, where the country's Deputy Minister for Health publicly declared that a series of rules should be tightened up, too limited efforts are being made to prevent this unethical handling of the bodies executed. Even less has the Chinese Government clearly dissociated itself from organ trafficking as such. Organ trafficking also occurs in other countries, but in the example of China it is particularly clear how trade takes place on a large scale and systematically, with state sanctioned. There is therefore a need for international diplomatic pressure on the Chinese regime in order to put an end to this activity. Mr President, I would like to After several countries have passed laws and openly condemned these crimes, it is high time that Sweden also acts with legislation and information to its citizens. Sweden should clearly act against China on the issue of involuntary and illegal organ transplants and criminalise organ travel to China. This has already been done by Spain and Italy. The value of Sweden and other democratic countries taking the lead in this matter cannot be underestimated. These are activities that are taking place in the world's most populous country, as well as the world's largest dictatorship. Sweden is a small voice, but let us be a strong voice on this issue. O legal o rgan transplantation does not belong in a civilized world.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-180	Mr President, I would like to My speaking time is barely five minutes. It is a short time to describe what I am going to talk about, namely persecuted Christians in the world. According to World Christian Database estimates, 105,000 Christian people are killed annually because of their faith. This corresponds to approximately 2,016 people being killed every week, which means 288 every day, 12 every hour and 1 every five minutes. This makes Christians the most persecuted group in the world. In connection with their death, serious violations also occur, such as rape, maiming, burned - down houses and churches, and beatings. In parts of the world, there are other religious and political groups that have made it their goal to destroy Christian minorities, which is terrible. Mr President, I would like to Any form of persecution is reprehensible and must be fought, no matter who is subjected to it. However, we must understand the extent of what is happening in our world today against Christians. Their situation is therefore worth highlighting a little extra. We in the West take our freedom of religion and our freedom of expression for granted, which makes it difficult to understand what it means to be subjected to the kind of persecution that these people suffer daily. It is a persecution where the agenda is to destroy a specific group of people precisely because of their faith. This is happening in many places in the world. The Catholic organization Aid to the Church in Need came out in early 2018 with a report called Persecuted and Forgotten? , which is about the vulnerability of Christians in the world. The study covers 13 countries, namely China, Egypt, Eritrea, India, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria and Turkey. The study describes an increasingly worsening situation for today's Christians in the last two years. Christians are being wiped out completely in parts of the world. This has to stop. In Syria and Iraq, there would have been no Christian minorities left unless the destruction of Islamists was stopped by the military. In China and North Korea, it is the Communist one-party state that stands for the persecution of religious minorities. It is a violation of our human rights. In India, Hindu nationalists target their violence against religious minorities through crackdowns on churches and harsher legislation. In the Middle East and North Africa, it is Islamists who expose dissidents to terrible conditions. In the name of various disgusting ideologies, actions are carried out that we promised ourselves and future generations never to forget. We have promised that we will always do everything we can to prevent it from happening again. In the crimes of Nazism and Communism against humanity, the silent masses were guilty of not giving up and not helping those who suffered and those who were tortured and killed. Mr President, I would like to Our Sweden is a pioneer country in terms of human rights and the fight for vulnerable people in the world. My appeal to the Swedish Parliament is that we take developments seriously and forcefully raise the issue in the international community. Sweden must contribute to more generous aid, for example, for those Christian groups that now want to return and build a life on the Nineves plain in Iraq. It is now high time that Sweden seriously raised the voice of persecuted Christians in the world and also other persecuted minorities. My speaking time is almost five minutes, and it has now passed. At that time another person has died because of his faith.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-193	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to see a just and equal world where all people have the same opportunities and the same freedom to live the very life they want. But mankind today is marked by deep injustices. The gaps are great between poor and rich countries, between poor and rich people and between men and women. The world's eight richest people, all men, own as much as the poorest half of the world's population. It could look very different, because there are enough resources to eradicate poverty and give people a dignified life. Basically, we in the Left Party believe that a new economic world order is needed, with a clear redistribution of power and resources from rich countries, rich people and men, to poor countries, poor people and women. We in the Left Party are proud to have been involved in developing the largest Swedish aid budget ever, a budget that includes important efforts to strengthen peace building work, gender equality, SRHR, human rights and a better climate. There is broad agreement that gender issues are central to development policy. Nevertheless, statistics on the proportion of aid to girls and women and boys and men are missing. We in the Left Party believe that Sweden in a world where women are systematically discriminated against and disregarded should have the goal of dedicating at least half of the aid to girls and women. Mr President, I would like to To be able to control one's own body and express one's own sexuality is a fundamental human right, but it is a right that is violated and violated in many countries. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care and strong restrictions on abortion law are key obstacles to development and poverty reduction. Too many donors lack the will or courage to engage in these very controversial issues. At the same time, we see how the forces that oppose the right to abortion are active in many poor countries and are moving forward their positions. For this reason, for several years the Left Party has been pushing for at least 10 per cent of the aid budget to be earmarked for the SRHR. Another point that we have long noted is a serious threat to both humanity and Mother Earth. Since 1968, the UN Convention on Non-Proliferation and Disarmament has applied with disappointing results. On the contrary, the countries that committed themselves to reducing nuclear weapons have developed them even more and further countries have acquired nuclear weapons. This is how Beatrice Fihn, Josefin Lind and Malin Nilsson, three excellent representatives of Ican, wrote the organisation that in 2017 received the Nobel Peace Prize for their work to bring about a UN ban on nuclear weapons: The nuclear issue is no exception – women and women's organisations have played a central role in banning these weapons of mass destruction. Nuclear weapons are strongly linked to ideas of masculinity and power. It can be seen not least when you start talking about disarmament. ..................................................... That is why we in the Left Party do not need an investigation to support a ban on nuclear weapons, for us the feminist peace movement and the Peace Prize guarantee enough that it is a good policy for all humanity. Mr President, I would like to During this term of office, the Left Party will work for this and much more to ensure that foreign and development policy has a strong feminist basis and is for many and not just a few.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-204	Mr President, I would like to Yasmine Posio referred to women's rights. There is no doubt about it. Women and men should have the same rights and the same opportunities. It's extremely important. What I missed in the speech, however, is about aid. We were told here what the aid should not be done. But what is the aid going to do? How will it be done for women to have a greater influence not only on their body and economy but also to be able to live a better life and be able to control themselves? I am thinking here of entrepreneurship, for example. What we know is that it is a society where there is a living economy. Of course, there should also be democracy and a constitution for power sharing and so on.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-207	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for the question. That was a very short time for the speech to be able to go through in depth exactly what we want to do. It was more like a general declaration of the directions we intend for aid policy to take. Assistance is already being provided to enable women to start their own businesses. Swedfund is one such example where you work that way. But it is very important that we ensure that it goes to the people who have those needs and not to Swedish companies being able to start in other countries. It should not be aided. Swedish companies will pay for this themselves if they want to start in other countries.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-209	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what this is all about. Women who receive financial support, assistance or loans can support themselves and their families. This is an extremely important issue. I believe that Sweden can do much more than has been done so far on this front both individually and in cooperation with other countries. Women should have an opportunity to run a business and make a living.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-210	Mr President, I would like to At the same time, we must not forget that it takes certain conditions for one to be able to carry out one's own business. A good infrastructure is needed. It needs good governance and so on. We cannot focus aid unilaterally on just one thing. We need to make sure it goes hand in hand.
i-6AXQCZf83vnTUhf5Avp6zX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for the radio transition, because now there will be trade policy. Sweden is an extremely export-dependent country. Our generous welfare is based on the fact that all women and men who can work also go to work. No less than 1.4 million jobs are available because our companies export goods and services to other countries. The share of services in exports is increasing, and this is gratifying. I myself come from an entrepreneurial rural area – Karbenning – in a municipality with a lot of small businesses – Norberg – in a county with many leading export giants – namely Västmanland. The many companies contribute not only to jobs but also to innovation, with pride and with great tax revenues to the public purse. We Social Democrats believe that exports are important, for example, because they create jobs throughout the country. For the first time since 2000, exports are now increasing in all of Sweden's counties. That's really good! The overall objective of the Socialist-led government has been and is to increase the number of people in work so that we reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. In these four years, 300 000 more people are now going to work. However, in order to achieve the overall goal, more companies must dare to expand and export. Swedish quality and innovation stand well in global competition. But it doesn't happen by itself. The broad and free education system, which makes the level of competence in Sweden generally high and that we can train ourselves throughout our lives and compete with knowledge – and not with low wages – is an important factor in success. Another is our robust security system, which makes many dare to try their wings, change jobs, start their own business and perhaps lose their security for a while. These two pillars of Swedish welfare must not be forgotten when we discuss trade policy and successful entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to We politicians set the framework and create the conditions for which society we want to see. Our priorities and who we choose to work with play a major role in the future. Since 2008, the overall objective of trade policy in Sweden has been the highest possible degree of free trade and an effective internal market and open trade policy in the EU. This goal has been agreed by most parties here in the Swedish Parliament, and we Social Democrats have gladly hooked arms with the Moderates on this issue. But what about the future? Now that the Moderates have opened up to form a government that is dependent on support from the Swedish Democrats, I am not only concerned that the Moderates are on the wrong side of history; I am also concerned about our common understanding of trade policy. I do not think it is unfamiliar to anyone that the Swedish Democrats want Sweden to leave the EU. About 70% of our total exports go to the EU's internal market. It is a very important foundation for the Swedish jobs and welfare. Look at the convulsions that are shaking Britain right now in front of Brexit! What will happen to Swedish jobs, Swedish exports and Swedish welfare if the protectionist and nationalist policies of the Swedish democrats influence Swedish trade policy? I can't let that happen.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-220	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Eriksson mentions, among other things, the EU. But I would like to start with what she mentions about standing on the right side of history. I think it is quite interesting, because it is a campaign that the Social Democrats are running. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask the question: on which side of history are the Social Democrats on? Is that the history in which the party itself has been involved in the creation of the Racial Biology Institute? Is it that one was an example to Nazi Germany by getting the Germans to stamp a J in the Jewish passport? Is it the forced sterilization of tens of thousands of Swedish innocent people? Are these the far-reaching international contacts with bloodstained regimes around the world? Is it this side of the story that Åsa Eriksson is on and that she thinks is the right side? The second thing I would like to comment on, Mr President, is this with the European Union. The Swedish democrats are not at all in order to isolate Sweden, but we want European cooperation in the future as well. But we do not want the cooperation that today's Europe provides.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-223	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Söder, for giving me the opportunity to develop this! As you probably know, it was we Social Democrats who shut down the Racial Biology Institute. I wonder why Björn Söder does not choose to talk about trade policy instead. I have heard your party leader say several times that if you succeed in getting Sweden to leave the EU, Sweden will conclude individual free trade agreements with other countries. That may sound good, but I think Björn Söder is as aware as I am of how long and how many years it takes to negotiate free trade agreements. How many countries does Björn Söder think will be interested in going through this process with Sweden, which has a market with 10 million customers? I'd like to know.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-225	Mr President, I would like to You can always close down an institute when you see that times are different and that it is suddenly not so convenient to express the opinions and ideas that you put forward perhaps only a few years earlier. As far as EU cooperation is concerned, Sweden was not isolated before EU entry. Sweden had trade before then. We see that Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and all the other countries outside the EU are not isolated either, but they have agreements with other countries and with the EU. There is no reason to start threatening that Sweden would be isolated just because we are leaving the EU.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-227	Mr President, I would like to Swedish exports have increased enormously since our EU entry and since Sweden entered the open market. We know that Sweden is one of the countries of the European Union that is absolutely most dependent on exports. We must continue to work for free trade and for a strong Europe. Of course, Europe has its shortcomings, but we shall deal with them together.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-228	Mr President, I would like to Much of what Åsa Eriksson said about trade policy is just to agree with. Trade is what builds well-being. It builds welfare in the world, and it helps to strengthen welfare in Sweden. Trade helps to help businesses and people get out into the world. It is this openness that the world needs more of. We are seeing today that the world is closing in on customs duties and protectionism. The ultimate example is Brexit. I think it is a pity that Åsa Eriksson chooses on this important subject to pick up the brown brush completely unjustifiably. Rarely has a comment fit so badly on such an important subject. What is important for the competitiveness of Swedish companies is that we have internationally competitive corporate taxes, expert taxes and employee options that make it interesting for foreign companies to establish themselves in Sweden and that make it interesting for companies to go out into the world. Why don't you talk about this, Åsa Eriksson?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-231	Mr President, I would like to The Red Green Government has done a lot to promote Swedish exports and to increase the opportunities to make major investments in Sweden. We will continue to do so if we continue to rule. For example, we have the export strategy with its two action programmes, we have introduced regional export centres in all counties and so on. I know that we agree with what Mr Rothenberg says in his warm speech on free trade. We were here a few six months ago discussing the issue and very much agreed on trade policy. I'm glad. I also hope that what he says really matters when it is time for government formation, because this is so incredibly important for Sweden. We cannot allow protectionism to influence Swedish politics.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-233	Mr President, I would like to No, that is what is important: to stand up for free trade and to stand up to protectionist forces. Swedish companies are not well off having received 50 billion in charges and increased costs, as has been the case for the last term of office. The Red-Green Government has seen to that. Swedish companies feel best to be able to have competitive conditions. I think it is a pity that Åsa Eriksson brings out the brown brush. And don't forget, if you mix red and green, it'll be brown!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-236	Mr President, I would like to Well, that last one was almost a bit resourceful. I would just like to inform Mr Rothenberg that exports of goods increased by 10% in 2017 compared with the previous year. During the four years we have been in the government, Swedish exports have increased from 1 758 billion to 2 044 billion. So it is going well with a Swedish red-green government for the Swedish export companies, and so we want it to continue to be.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-238	Mr President, I would like to 70 years have now passed since the death of UN mediator Folke Bernadotte in Jerusalem. Some day earlier he had written a report, in which he said, among other things, that it was necessary to find a solution so that the Palestinians who had been displaced or fled in the past months could return to their homes. We now know that this was the reason why he was murdered by the guilty gang – Sternligan. Unfortunately, none of them were brought to justice for the murder, but the United Nations raised the appeal of Folke Bernadotte and decided in a resolution a little later that year in the General Assembly that the Palestinians who had fled had the right to return. They were entitled to compensation. One of the reasons why this very serious and complex conflict has not yet been resolved is that this demand has not been met by reality. I think it is very important when we discuss this issue and when we have this discussion here today that we stick to the facts and that we stick to international law and do not exaggerate anything for one side or the other, but try to contribute with a factual discussion on it. Then we must note that international law has been violated in this area. 51 years have now passed since the occupation began. Jerusalem is annexed, which goes against international law. The West Bank is divided into three zones and there is a de facto annexation of most of the area. 600 000 settlers are now in the West Bank and in Jerusalem, and this is contrary to international law. Gaza is under blockade, and this isolation has created a deep misery and enormous bitterness among the people of Gaza. They are now far removed from the hopes of peace and consensus. The demonstrations along the fences that began in May continue. The number of Israeli snipers killed is over 200. Most of them have been unarmed. 38 of them have been children. I think it is important that we also see that side when we discuss this conflict, because now this situation is getting worse. There are a few factors that further contribute to creating a deeper crisis. One is the fact that the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah, i.e. part of the Palestinian leadership, is actively participating in this blockade, thereby marking the ongoing battle within the Palestinian camp. Unfortunately, the Palestinians are deeply divided today. They lack leaders who can bring the wounded people to a solution. The second factor is the policy driven from Washington by President Trump, who now says that he will resolve this conflict with the solution of the century, but in fact it has hit the weaker party. He's been undermining Unrwa. I do not share the view that has been expressed here about Unrwa. Unrwa has made serious attempts, but the policy now being pursued from Washington is, unfortunately, exacerbating the conflict.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-244	Mr President, I would like to It was a history description called good and that was very one-sided. It paints the image that the problem along Gaza and what happened at the fence there was almost exclusively the fault of the Israelis – it was snipers who shot down children and so on. It would have been a little more dressy if the other aspect had also been raised and a little more criticism was levelled at those who are actually behind this, namely Hamas. So they used youths and children as human shields, and behind them people hid with weapons. They fired rockets at Israel, burned tires, and threw various missiles on the Israeli side. It would have been a little more dressy with a different history description than the one you might get through the state television SVT and so on. Those who have read other pictures of this conflict have also seen the other side.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-246	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that the Palestinian leaders have made very serious mistakes in this conflict. I mentioned this in my speech here. However, it is also important that, when we discuss this issue, we try to see the effect that the current conflict has on the people in this area. There is no doubt that the Palestinian people are suffering greatly today. The efforts that are needed now must be ready to support. Unrwa is a lifeline for the population of not least Gaza but also other parts of the Middle East where Palestinians are. The removal of Unrwa's work on health care, children's education and emergency aid will further exacerbate this conflict and create a bitterness which, unfortunately, can lead to outbreaks of violence of a much more serious nature than today.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-248	Mr President, I would like to I agree that the Arab population and the Palestinian population in Gaza are suffering from oppression, but it is by no means Israel's fault, but this is the sole fault of Hamas. Israel ensures that daily supplies are brought in by trucks. Care is taken to ensure that medical equipment, food and other supplies come to the people of Gaza. When Israel left the Gaza Strip, it was a thriving place where irrigation systems were used and so on. All of this is torn up by Hamas that has used pipe pipes and the like for rocket manufacturing and so on. The people have been put under oppression. Direct the criticism where it should be directed!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-250	Mr President, I would like to That comment illustrates what I would like here: a factual debate based on an understanding of the situation as it actually is. We shall avoid such black paintings on one side when the conflict actually goes between these two peoples. Then we must also see the humanitarian dimension and the demands of international law that are actually being violated.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-251	Mr President, I would like to I have the greatest respect for Thomas Hammarberg and the work he has done on human rights, democracy and human dignity in his work over the years. As far as the Middle East conflict is concerned, we have different views. It's not a secret. I think it is good that Thomas Hammarberg highlights the difficult situation of the Palestinian people. I share that picture, and I have seen it with my own eyes because I have lived in the region. But we must not turn a blind eye to the facts. Thomas Hammarberg called for the facts, and the facts are that the suffering of the Palestinian people is largely due to corrupt leadership and that some of the Palestinian territories are governed by a terrorist organisation. Why does Thomas Hammarberg not mention Hamas at all in his speech here?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-254	Mr President, I would like to I've been following this conflict for over 50 years. I have repeatedly been to Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Gaza, and I have also been to the neighbouring countries and looked at the refugee camps there. My conviction is that we are not contributing to the resolution of this conflict by saying in unilateral positions that the fault lies only with one party, with the Palestinians. I am the first to say that the Palestinian leadership, both these great factions, is not ready for a peaceful solution. They're incompetent and there are elements of corruption. Yes. But it must also be recognised that Israel has a responsibility and that international law must be upheld in this conflict too. I'm afraid that's not happening. The settlements are an example of this. What is happening in the West Bank today with the gradual annexations that are actually going on there is a problem. It would be good if you, who are committed to the cause of Israel, turned to Israel on this issue.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-256	Mr President, I would like to In 1948 and 1967 Israel was attacked by its neighbors. Then there was no occupation, and then there were no settlements. The basis for those attacks and attacks on Israel was to wipe out the state of Israel. These forces remain today, and they are represented by Hamas and Israel's neighbours. Does Thomas Hammarberg not see that this is the fundamental problem in the conflict and that the occupation and settlements are symptoms of this conflict?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-258	Mr President, I would like to It is one of the basic problems but not the only one. The other side was what I wanted to present in my speech here, namely that the Palestinians are being violated. The rights of Palestinians have not been respected, nor have they been respected by Israel. It is important that those of us who are involved in this matter and not least those who are friends of Israel– I count myself as one of the friends of Israel– must have courage and good judgment enough to talk to the Israelis that some of what they are doing is actually not acceptable.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-259	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Thomas a question, which is very committed to human rights. Today I have not heard a single word about the situation in South Africa. No one has touched upon the persecution of white landowners, who have plantations, in South Africa and who are sanctioned by the top management. That debate really belongs in another place. But the fact that ownership is taken from the landowners is sanctioned by the top management. Has the government paid attention to this, and if so in what way? Sweden has a prominent role in the UN. Have you paid any attention to that at all?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-262	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I represent the government on this issue. I know, however, that our diplomatic representatives in various parts of the world are addressing such problems as soon as human rights arise. The Swedish embassies in the world are perhaps the most active when it comes to human rights. That is something we must protect for the future. It's important. It is part of the Swedish foreign policy, part of the values that we have in this country and is passed on in that way.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-264	Mr President, I would like to It's a little special when it comes to South Africa. I am thinking of apartheid, the politics of the past, which we were all opposed to. We are also seeing developments in Zimbabwe. South Africa is on its way to a similar, very serious situation. Even if we talk about human rights in general, we should also be able to focus on and penetrate what is happening in South Africa. It's a persecution without likeness, murder, and so on on these landowners. More attention should be paid to this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-266	Mr President, I would like to It is in some cases a matter of criminal action. This must, of course, be countered by the authorities in South Africa. Since the abolition of apartheid, South Africa has built up a legal apparatus that is very positive. The Constitution in South Africa is probably one of the best in the world. It is important that they manage to stay in a society of justice. There's been a problem. There's been corruption. I'm sure the embassy will take it up.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-269	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats believe in the equal rights and value of all people. We want Sweden to make a difference in the world. We want to eradicate poverty, create a safer world, strengthen democracy and safeguard respect for human rights. We believe in a future in the Middle East with two free, viable and democratic states living in peace side by side. The conflict between Israel and Palestine can only be resolved by a two-state solution negotiated in accordance with the principles of international law. It must guarantee the legitimate demands of both Palestinians and Israelis for national self-determination and security. A two-state solution requires mutual recognition and the desire for peaceful coexistence. Both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to freedom, development and security within safe and recognised borders. The international community must engage in dialogue with all relevant parties to the conflict. It is important that peace negotiations can lead to a lasting peace. The expansion of settlements must stop. The wall of occupied land must be demolished, the occupation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem must be completed and the blockade of Gaza must stop. And refugees must be allowed to return home. Anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and other forms of racism and discrimination must be combated wherever they appear. We must never give up on these forces, but we must resist them and stand up for the equal rights and worth of all men. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a long tradition of taking global responsibility. With a solidarity-based development policy and active, value-driven foreign policy, the Social Democracy has been promoting sustainable development for many years. Our starting point is that free and equal people contribute to a safer world. Free trade unions and trade union rights are important in the fight for global justice. It is important that workers are made aware of their rights, that the capacity for democratic organisation is strengthened and that women's space and rights in the workplace are increased. The Government's Global Deal initiative is an important tool in this work. Global Deal has the potential to contribute to more and better jobs, increased productivity and inclusive economic development that contribute to more people taking part in the benefits of globalisation. The Social Democrats want to strengthen workers' rights and social dialogue to counter the negative effects of globalisation. The Swedish experience where the partner model has led to sustainable and inclusive solutions can be a good starting point. Trade unions are also of great importance for a good working environment and good working conditions. I would like to emphasise the importance of human rights in working life, of organising and decent conditions to meet the challenges of globalisation and of using it as a positive force for people to emerge from poverty.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-279	Mr President, I would like to Journalist Tobias Petersson revealed on his blog Tobias's thoughts in early October Jamal El-Haj's long and well-documented contacts with extremely hesitant people and organisations. El-Haj-Haj has been associated for a long time with the coalition partner of the terrorist organisation Hizbollah Amal. Two days before the parliamentary elections, El-Haj-Haj visited a commemoration of Amals's spiritual leader who has created a jihadist militia movement linked to the Amal party. El-Haj-Haj has also associated with the Greek Orthodox Archbishop of Sebastia, who hails Palestinian terrorists. And now El-El-Haj is here, in Sweden's highest decision-making body. How does El-Haj-Haj feel that his contacts with these organisations and people rhyme with his own speech about everyone's equal rights and value?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-281	Mr President, I would like to What's on the blog doesn't add up. You have stated yourself that Jews and Sami are not Swedes, Björn Söder. Is that right? I don't know. Is it possible to be slandered? Can a journalist who has a racist or Islamophobic agenda act in such a way? You'll have to take my word in this Chamber. You can talk to me and ask me what I think about this and other things. I have been in the same electoral movement as everyone else in this House. I have spoken in public squares, been out in associations and visited mosques and talked well about social democracy and what our party wants to achieve. I do not know if anyone in the room is representing one or the other party. However, it is important to me that my message comes forward. It is important for me to talk about democracy and human rights and about Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-285	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what I did, took the discussion in this House and asked how this rhymes with Jamal El-Haj's speech about everyone's equal rights and value while he hangs out with dubious organisations and people – organisations that have a coalition with the terrorist organisation Hizbollah and people who celebrate Palestinian terrorists. My statements have been made in order to protect the minority groups that we have in Sweden. But to associate with terrorist organisations or organisations that are closely associated with such organisations, I have not.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-287	Mr President, I would like to It is important for me as a politician to meet all the citizens who will vote in elections. It is important for me to tell you about human rights and Islamophobia. It's discriminatory. Anti-Semitism is not okay. That's my purpose. If you say that Jews are not Swedes and have an explanation for that, I can very well accept your explanation. Then you'll have to accept my explanation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-289	Madam President, I would like I am glad that Jamal El-Haj-Haj rejects anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism is a poison in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Anti-Semitism is spread by the Palestinian leadership in textbooks, in children's programmes on television up through the ages. Anti-Semitism must be combated in order to succeed in reaching some form of negotiation or peaceful solution in the Middle East. I would like to ask: how does your party contribute to combating anti-Semitism in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and in Palestinian areas? Do you think that your party and the policy you represent have been successful in this regard?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-291	Madam President, I would like Both anti-Semitism and Islamophobia are discriminatory and racist. We need to distance ourselves from that. My party has done a great deal about anti-Semitism. I have lived in Malmö and have been an active politician there. I have personally participated in the memorial demonstrations of the crystal night and spoken at them. Then I have expressed my disgust at what was done to the Jews during the time of the Nazis. With regard to what the Social Democrats have done, we have put in curricula and schools a foundation of values. Even at a young age, children can learn to respect one another. The values and people's equal value are very important. That and much more we have done.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-294	Madam President, I would like Now the question was how the foreign policy of the Social Democrats has contributed to countering anti-Semitism in Palestinian areas. I did not get a real answer to that question. But there is an obvious problem, and that is that Social Democratic policy has contributed and is today contributing to the financial support of organisations and individuals who stand for and spread anti-Semitism, either indirectly or directly from Swedish tax money. I would like to conclude by asking: is this acceptable, as you see it?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-296	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats stand for human dignity and are against anti-Semitism and Islamophobia. That is the policy of the Social Democrats. Whether you express yourself anti-Semitic here in Sweden or anywhere else in the world, we reject it. Our policy is also to talk about the principles of international law, to give the Palestinians their rights. It is very important in this conflict to try to bring peace between these parties, who have been fighting for more than 70 years. It is very important not to take sides without talking about principles of international law on both sides.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-298	Madam President, I would like The first years after the end of the Cold War were marked by a strong belief in long-term peace and stability in our neighbourhood. The Soviet Union had fallen, and the new Russia was perceived as developing in a positive direction. The government's proposal for the defence decision in 2004 stated that Russia continues its foreign policy orientation towards Western Europe and the US, in particular to promote economic development. In this mood, the Swedish security policy was shaped. The defence decisions meant massive cuts in military defence. Just a few years later, the development that came to mean that, in connection with the defence policy proposal, we changed course on the Swedish defence policy almost four years ago. When Vladimir Putin gave a speech at the security conference in Munich in 2007, he stormed against the security regime established after the end of the Cold War. The following year Russian tanks rolled into Georgia. But the review that began to appear necessary even then did not come. Instead, the bourgeois government decided on a defence policy direction that continued to focus on international operations, including the abolition of military service. These cuts also brought forward the civilian parts of the total defense. Planning ceased, stocks were emptied and the knowledge and skills built up through the decades were dispersed with the wind. The mood and view of the outside world made some of the decisions made at the time logical. But the long-standing dismantling of the total defense has major consequences as we now face a more uncertain world and thus have to rebuild what we once had. The 2015 defence policy orientation bill states that the single most important thing during the defence orientation period 2016 – 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the military units and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. The defence decision in June 2015 and the subsequent defence policy agreements mean that a total of almost SEK 26 billion will be added to the defence economy by 2020. We are now three years into the implementation of the five-year defence decision. Many changes have been decided, and measures have been taken. However, much of what has been decided and started has not yet been completed or fully effective; for example, a large number of materiel projects have been decided and ordered, with planned delivery in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, civil defence is not an individual organisation. Instead, it is activities that include government authorities, county councils, municipalities and civil society in general. The aim of the civil defence is to protect the civilian population, ensure the most important functions of society and support the Armed Forces in the event of increased preparedness and extreme war. Madam President, I would like Looking ahead, we can see that much remains to be done. The defence committee's reports are important elements in the continued work. It is not possible today to point out an end to the work of strengthening total defence and hence the robustness of society when the worst happens. It is a diligent work that must be done with great patience and confidence. The whole of society must be protected and functioned, even in severe crises and in times of war.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-310	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting historical exposé that Niklas Karlsson devoted himself to. The years 2004 and 2007 were a lot involved. It has to be said, Madam President, that there is a certain amount of partial amnesia. Nothing was said about the 1990s and what was done at the time: the large bandage closures. We have just, a few months ago, revived the P 18 on Gotland. It was one of the many regiments and units that were dismantled during Göran Persson's government. So there is every reason to broaden the historical description of 25 years of reductions. That is why, Madam President, it is very interesting that the chairman of the Committee on Defence does not say anything about the future. He may refer to the Defence Committee's upcoming reports but does not say anything about the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base, which is on the Ministry's table. It says that you need 18 billion by 2021 – otherwise you will make substantial reductions. Would Niklas Karlsson, if the President has given him permission, like to develop something about the future?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-313	Madam President, I would like It is sometimes strange to listen to Hans Wallmark and the Moderates. On the one hand, my writing of history is not enough; on the other hand, the great error is that I am not talking enough about the future. It is clear that we can dwell on this. However, the fact remains that the Social Democratic-led government's proposal on how we want to develop the defence and invest in increasing the operational capacity of the armed forces and strengthening the combined capabilities of the total defence is, of course, solid. As I said in my speech, it will take time to continue building this. I know that the Moderates are trying to carry this responsibility as best they can in our common defence settlement. I think this is good and important, because it sends signals to the Swedish Armed Forces that we should raise the thresholds for an attack on Sweden. But it also sends signals to the outside world that it will cost to be aggressive towards our country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-316	Madam President, I would like It's not so much about sending signals as sending money. That is where the shortcoming lies in history, Madam President. Niklas Karlsson and other social democrats mainly deal with the phantom pains of the alliance years 2006– 2014. Everything that happened before and everything that comes after you try to avoid. Therefore, it is still interesting to read the Swedish Armed Forces' budget documentation. If you do not get 18 billion by 2021, severe reductions will be implemented. How do the Social Democrats view this, Madam President?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-318	Madam President, I would like This is what Hans Wallmark knows. He knows what the Social Democrats want and that we want to provide resources to increase the operational capacity of the armed forces. That direction remains. However, we do not get away from what happened during the period when Hans Wallmark's party The Moderates led Sweden: how we had a defence minister who resigned because he did not want to use the defence as a budget regulator and a prime minister who said that the defence was a self-interest. Those days are over.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-320	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming Niklas Karlsson to the Committee on Defence, which I think you will soon notice is a very interesting and nice committee. But let's forget about the nicest things for a while. When you do a historical exposé, it must nevertheless be mentioned that it is during the years 1994 to 2006, that you choose not to talk so much about, as the big cut in Swedish defence takes place. That's when dressings are laid down, and that's when we get the big economic bang. We go from 2.3 to 1.3 percent of the bnp over a period of a little more than ten years. This could be the biggest cut in Swedish defence economy. During the same period as Chairman Niklas Karlsson refers to, the Social Democrats later sit in opposition. He's doing a reflection on Georgia in 2008-- what did the alliance government do? I would like to ask the corresponding question: what did the Social Democrats do during that period? How can the savings of 2 billion you put forward help to strengthen defence? This is beyond my comprehension, but I hope that the new President will be able to respond to it.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-323	Madam President, I would like Of course, one can focus on the cuts made back in time. As the honourable Member may have heard, I spoke about this in my speech: that there was a certain logic in those cuts, for which all parties have a responsibility, including the Social Democracy. Today, it may not be that big a difference, but what separates us is that it was first with the Social Democratic-led government that the efforts on defence came about. They did not happen during the eight years when we had a prime minister named Fredrik Reinfeldt and a defence minister named Mikael Odenberg, who resigned because he thought his own representatives and friends in the government used the Swedish Armed Forces and the defence as a budget regulator. That time is now over, and there we bear a shared responsibility. It is right that debates in this House should give credit to other Members, and the Moderates should of course have it. They are able to bear this responsibility in the defence agreements that have been made. There will have to be new ones, and I hope that we can reach out to each other and agree on these efforts in the future.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-326	Madam President, I would like I share your view, Niklas Karlsson. What has happened is not a great idea to talk about, although it can, of course, provide lessons for the future. But what is important to focus on is what the future requires, and there the Swedish Armed Forces are clear. For each year, figures are given on what you need to implement what we have jointly decided on and for several years have prepared and arrived at in the Defence Committee. In order for us to do this, we must also send money there; it is about EUR 3.5 billion and EUR 10 billion – a total of EUR 18 billion. Otherwise, our operational capabilities, as you mentioned, will be reduced.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-328	Madam President, I would like It can well be said that it is part of the opposition's task in the parliamentary debates to criticise those who govern and the majority. But it is clear that it should also be recognised when you agree and have common starting points. When it comes to the agreements made and the importance of making new agreements to signal to the Swedish Armed Forces that their operations are important and to the outside world that it should cost to be aggressive towards Sweden, we agree. I look forward to those calls.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-329	Madam President, I would like It was good that we also had a discussion on defence in this general political debate. The disarmament that Sweden and many other countries did in the 1990s and until 2009, one might say, took us down to a level when it comes to defence that makes the uphill today very steep, mildly put. I also believe that very few citizens have actually taken up this development. Many people live in the idea of a much stronger and more extensive defence than we do today. This is serious because it makes it harder for us to meet the challenges of building a stronger and more effective defence. I think it was Niklas Karlsson who said earlier in the line shift that we need to go back to what we had. That's not true. In a few decades a lot has happened in society in terms of vulnerability, IT development and much more. We need something new, much stronger, and it's very complicated. For us elected representatives, I believe that this will require not only decision-making powers and definite priorities, but also that we have more people who are interested and generally aware of matters relating to Sweden's security, our vulnerability and what is needed to prevent and to be able to act in crises and conflicts and in times of war. It's not cool in Sweden's neighbourhood. We have just had a debate on security policy in this House. In recent years tensions have increased, and since 2014, there is a war going on in Ukraine, just to give an example. The Russian rearmament continues. We recently received reports of extensive new military installations on the Kola Peninsula. This is happening at the same time as Russia and China have recently had the greatest exercise since 1981 in our absolute vicinity. It is claimed that over 300 000 soldiers participated. So a lot is happening, and there is a lot to work with. The current defence decision taken in 2015 is a good one and a starting point for increasing Swedish defence capabilities. But it will not be an easy journey. As things stand today, the defence will have to cut back and weaken the operation because the funds allocated are not enough. I had not expected to hear the Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist in this debate, but it would of course have been good if he had been here, because so far the Social Democrats have not given any information as to what they are thinking in concrete terms of the defence budget. The focus is solid, says Niklas Karlsson. Well, that's nice of you to say, but it's the money you need. Money is needed to train, recruit staff and build businesses, and they are missing. The Moderates and the Alliance, on the other hand, have been quite clear. We want to add the SEK 18 billion that the Swedish Armed Forces have requested to maintain the level of the targeting decision. That's a pretty important message. I believe that we in this House have a task ahead of us. We must face uncertain times with clear policy and responsibility. We must respect a complex formation of government, but we must also deal with concrete issues that require an answer. Defence policy is an area in which we Moderates would like to see a broad agreement, because it cannot wait. It endangers Sweden's security, and it risks creating even greater problems in the future.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-338	Madam President, I would like I find it quite interesting to follow the debates between the Social Democrats and the Moderates. Now everyone's a warm defender, and that's great. Given that we have no government in place, it will be to live up to the ambitions declared in this House. You can criticise each other about the past, but the fact is that both the bourgeois alliance and the red-green side have been equally good cabbage drinkers when it was about dismantling the Swedish Armed Forces. The whole system has been scrapped and so on. In the context of debate, I sometimes talk about how, as a 20-year-old, I wrote our youth union's defence policy section and say that I then did better analyses of the outside world than you as parliamentary parties did back then. The world situation changed rapidly, but you reacted very late. Again, it takes a long time to rebuild defense capabilities. But it is interesting that you are now willing to go that way.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-341	Madam President, I would like If we are to emphasize personal qualities, I can say that I pushed ahead in these matters at an early stage. Great calls were also made. We were 140 000 people who signed a petition, and we protested here in Parliament to put an end to the reductions we saw at the end of the 1980s. It's like this: Faith in eternal peace affected everyone, not just politicians in Sweden. Throughout Europe we were able to see these developments. You can discuss whether this was good or bad, but that was it. We stand here and now, and there is no way back, but we must move forward. It will require money, priorities and peoples' education work, I would say, because when you negotiate money, you also need support to put it precisely in the defence budget. It will not be easy, and that was a bit of my point in the speech.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-344	Madam President, I would like In fact, faith in eternal peace did not affect everyone. We who have read history and know what happened in 1925 and then, having also believed in eternal peace, have learned a little and realized that perhaps after the fall of the Soviet Union we cannot believe in eternal peace. But the fact is that during the alliance government in 2006– 2014, despite the war in Georgia and the events in Maydan in Ukraine, you woke up very late. It was only in the spring of 2014 that the Moderates suddenly became warm defence supporters again. But it is to be welcomed that you are now.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-345	Madam President, I would like I note that the investigation that exists into the defence's future long-term material needs actually makes it clear that during the time of the alliance government, things were happening in the right direction. But turning an atlanteer takes time-- there's no doubt about that. I think, of course, that in the rear-view mirror there are things that should have been done differently. But the fact remains: we are here and now. That's what matters. Then it is interesting that people who have always been right at all times obviously could not then still bring people along on their message.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-348	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to how you criticize each other. You can go on with that. There was a party that said early on that we had to have a strong defence over time. It was the Swedish Democrats. That's what we said long before we got into Parliament. We need a strong defence over time, regardless of the day form in Russia. We understood that there was reason to take heights for a strong Swedish defence. We were the only ones to say this at the time. Those of you sitting here and the other parties are guilty of putting Sweden in an extremely serious position. We were basically undefended. Anyone who would have liked to have done a great deal of harm to Sweden. It's your responsibility. The debate here is now hearing that we should take responsibility for the future. I would like to touch on how we analyse and work today. We are facing a huge procurement of an anti-aircraft system. This is about the outdated Patriot system with an obsolete radar that sees 120 degrees. We're not getting any anti-aircraft systems on our corvettes. We get this for 20, 30 or 40 billion over time. It's very expensive in operation. The logistics is vastly larger. We have a data link into the system, which makes it vulnerable. Depending on how much robots we buy, it's a giant mistake. This is the ability you have when it comes to doing something really good for Sweden! Then you land in buying this system. Why are you doing this? Madam President, I would like When we, the representatives of the Swedish Democrats, in the Defence Committee have been asking for a long time for us to have contacts with other suppliers of anti-aircraft systems who want to present solutions – from Saab in Sweden to MDBA in France, which is Europe's largest manufacturer of missiles – you say no. So you do not want to broaden the basis of the decision. You simply ignore this. If you refuse to take in a broad basis for decision, are you in the right place? Are you not more interested in this? Now, for example, we will not have any anti-aircraft on our five Visby corvettes. Or are we going to build a new system there? Only last week, what we advocate was developed, namely the Aster 30 robot. The new version will be operational in 2023 and is excellent for ballistic missiles, for example together with our system of CAMM robots on the Visby Corvettes. It is Swedish radar and Swedish defence industry. Where are you guys? You are not taking part in this debate at all! It's a giant cuckoo you're responsible for bringing in. There are no other countries that want the Patriot system. Even the NATO countries don't buy it. We have launched a motion in which we want to investigate the costs of revoking the decision. We want to sit down again and try to get you to invite other suppliers and listen to them. Hopefully we will have some success in this. Let me give you an example. In the perspective study for 2018, it says, among other things, that the marines will focus with the upgrading of anti-aircraft on the five Visby corvettes. Should we have double anti-aircraft systems now? What have you been thinking? You're not getting it together? Where's the analytical ability? It's gone as usual.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-360	Madam President, I would like After all, I am quite new to the Committee on Defence and do not have the same long experience as Roger Richtoff. One problem I have discovered, however, is that this is confused with expert knowledge and what politicians should do. As far as anti-aircraft systems are concerned, the committee has examined the matter quite thoroughly. And the Swedish Armed Forces have made it clear that even without substantial additions it was necessary to make the decision that the government eventually made. The answer to why it did not want to see the option that the Swedish Democrats thought should be investigated was that it was stated that there was nothing ready to use. I do not think that every technical detail can be interfered with. It is not a political issue. However, if the expert authorities give a clear answer, they must be reasonably trusted. Don't the Swedish Democrats?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-363	Madam President, I would like We trust the experts to some extent. We'll link it up a little bit with the host country agreement. The host country agreement states that you can group foreign power's anti-aircraft systems, for example, in Sweden. What system was used during the last exercise? Patriot system. Now you see a connection. If we buy in this system you can jacket it with the host country Patriot system. But the fact remains. If Beatrice Ask believes that she does not have to penetrate into anything and does not have to take any interest in these systems and skills, I can tell you that I have a completely different view. I want to know. When someone claims to be an expert and is about to introduce a system, I actually want to know if it's a good system. I can talk to the war unit commanders under the top command, and they have a different opinion. On one occasion I asked, "Why don't you say so? The answer was: I'm doing my last day as an officer if I were to tell you what I think about this system. That's what you find out when you talk to them.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-366	Madam President, I would like I can assure Mr Richtoff that I am rather nerdy on detailed issues, but I have some respect for the fact that we have a system in which expert authorities are to prepare proposals for politicians to make decisions from outside. This does not mean that politicians should not understand the issues. However, the preparation that we had indicated that we had no other ways but to actually make that decision, while the Swedish Democrats felt that they had met someone they wanted to invite to the committee at a late stage to discuss it. There will certainly be more trips, but I think we need to have order on how we make decisions.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-368	Madam President, I would like At a late stage – the first time was a year ago. Then the Member wasn't there, so she can't know, but now she knows. Then, on several occasions, we returned to this very point. There were different systems and different manufacturers to give us a width. Now the Patriot system is also delayed, so there was no gain with this. What do we do with the handling of cruise missiles, which is one of the main threats to Sweden? Forget it! During the Aurora drill, this system was shot away.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-370	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask Roger Richtoff about one thing in another area. During this summer's devastating forest fires, Sweden's thing became all of Europe. In my home country, Jämtland, Italian fire fighters and Polish firefighters participated in the fire extinguishing work. This was done within the framework of the EU Civil Defence Mechanism. Support to Sweden is the European civil protection's biggest response to forest fires for at least a decade. These efforts were crucial to our ability to overcome the fires. The Swedish Democrats think that Sweden should leave the EU. For me, it doesn't really make sense. Roger Richtoff spoke here of a lack of analytical ability. My question to you is: How does SD mean that Sweden's emergency preparedness is strengthened by our leaving the EU?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Finally I get to answer it. Now listen to me very carefully! This is the case with the Swedish Democrats and the EU. We want to renegotiate with the EU. We don't want to say tomorrow if we could do it, we'll leave you. We're interrupting all trading. We're on our own. I want to make this absolutely clear. We will leave the EU by no less than renegotiating the agreements so that we maintain free trade and all those elements. How we will succeed in doing so will be seen. When these agreements are renegotiated, we will raise them to the Swedish people: Is it a good agreement – yes or no? These agreements will ensure that we have all the freedom that we have with trade in Europe. It is not a question of leaving the EU without having those agreements. Never again say that we want to suspend all cooperation with the EU or leave it without this! It may well be added that it is on condition that we achieve success in our renegotiations. Now I hope this is done, and I will take the next question in the next round.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I do not think we need to go further than the current Brexit negotiations to see that it does not work. It is not serious to say that you can pick raisins out of the European cake and then think that you can get an acceptance for it within the EU. I do not think it needs to be either or: that we should rely only on the EU's emergency preparedness and not take care of our own capabilities. It has to be both. We will remain in the EU and strengthen Sweden's emergency preparedness here at home.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-379	Madam President, I would like Then I will leave the EU question. May I remind the honourable Member that in 2016 there was a party that was exercising to introduce the so-called MAFF system on Hercule. It was us. You voted against. Already in 2016 we understood that we need to increase preparedness. We'll get back to you with that exercise, and we'll see if you catch up.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-380	Madam President, I would like For the Left Party, military alliance freedom and neutrality are the most important elements of defence and security policy. The Left Party therefore clearly rejects Swedish membership of NATO. We believe that the host country agreement between Sweden and NATO should be demolished and that we should instead mark the importance of peace by signing the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. A further rapprochement with NATO begins in a few days, when Sweden participates in one of NATO's biggest exercises for a very long time. Transport of vehicles has in recent days gone through Sweden, from my hometown down in Skåne north towards Norway. Sweden's participation in this exercise is aimed, among other things, at strengthening cooperation with NATO. The Left Party believes that this is the wrong way to go. A better way is to work for peace and disarmament by instead contributing to the UN peacekeeping work with many other countries. The Left Party worked long for military service to be reinstated in Sweden. Of course, we are pleased that it has now become so. For us, it is important that Sweden's defence has a strong popular base, that those who participate in the defence work represent the entire population and that we have different backgrounds, experiences and knowledge. In this way, compulsory service is a question of democracy. The defence of Sweden must never be handed over to a few special interests, but is in many different ways a responsibility for all of us. In future, compulsory service should also include civilian elements and strengthen our preparedness for natural and environmental disasters, which risk becoming more frequent in the wake of climate change. The Left Party is a feminist party. That is why our defence and security policy is also a feminist defence and security policy. It's very simple. Women's rights and experience must also be given greater place in this part of the policy, since women and children are the hardest hit both during and after the conflict. The whole population must be involved in emergency operations and in their planning, but also in the great and important work done after a conflict has ended. The long-term work done to build and strengthen democracy and human rights must involve women's right to education, work and democratic influence. It's about the right to our own bodies and to live a free life. From this point of view, it is very gratifying to me that the Nobel Peace Prize this year goes to laureates who have focused on how women are affected by wars and conflicts and the terrible situations where rape is used as a weapon. A stronger feminist perspective is needed on the entire defence and security policy in the future. Madam President, I would like Peace on earth may sound like a dream taken from childhood. But yes, there are many of us who get an extra warm feeling in the heart when we in the song Last night I dreamt singing about the statesmen sitting in a row and writing on a convolute that all wars were over. Defence and security policy must have peace, security, democracy and human rights as its ultimate goal in the future.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-391	Madam President, I would like We live in an increasingly uncertain world. Excitement has also increased in our neighbourhood. The occupation of Crimea and the ongoing war of aggression against Ukraine show that Russia sees military force as an instrument for achieving political goals. The Russian rearmament is ongoing with unabated strength, and the practice activities in our neighbourhood are becoming increasingly aggressive. For us Christian Democrats, it is therefore important that the Armed Forces be given such a design and strength that it can act as a deterrent if anyone is considering attacking Sweden. It is also clear that Sweden alone cannot face the threats we face. It is clear to us that the security that citizens can demand in their daily lives, for the family and in their old age is ultimately based on the fact that the state can meet the need for internal and external security. For us, defence is a core task for the state – for Sweden is really worth defending. The Christian Democrats have made a report called For a Safe Sweden. Here we highlight what we see needs to be done in the short and long term. One important thing is that Sweden needs to invest more money in the Armed Forces. Today we are at 1% of GDP. Our neighbours have already reached or are about to reach 2%. There we want Sweden to reach up to 2% in a ten-year period. Then the organization in the defense can be expanded as needed, and weapons systems that fall for the age line can be renewed. As I said, we can't take care of ourselves. Sweden therefore needs to become a member of NATO. Today we are partners of NATO, and it is good that we are involved in exercises. But we need to upgrade. This would increase the security of both Sweden and our neighbours. This is an important issue for us. As far as the air force is concerned, we want it to be strengthened to include eight instead of the six combat aircraft divisions today. Today we have divisions in Ronneby, Såtenäs and Luleå, but we should also have in Uppsala to fully defend Sweden. The fleet must also be strengthened so that it can occur simultaneously in the Baltic Sea and on the west coast. This means that the number of ships must be doubled, so that we can get back a presence on the west coast. The army is good but too small. It must be strengthened so that it can meet an attacker in two directions simultaneously, in upper Norrland and in southern Sweden. This means that the number of brigades must increase from today's two to four or five. We see that this is done by increasing the number of conscripts to 12 000 per year, i.e. a threefold increase in today's 4 000. The Home Guard is an important resource for our defense. However, it must be developed to solve more qualified tasks, such as blocking or defending ports and airfields. It is also important that the equipment is adapted to meet a modern opponent. Finally, I'm going to say something about civil defense. It is too weak today and needs to be strengthened. I am thinking in particular of increasing cyber attacks, which is why we need to strengthen our protection against them substantially.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-402	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson says that it is important to invest financial resources in the defence. In this year's budget, you are investing 540 million more than the government. How does it begin the march up to 2 percent? For 2019, you are investing 1 billion more than the government and for 2020 2.4 billion more – this in the budget you submitted before Christmas for the next three years, for the next defence decision. That's a total of 4 billion more than the government. It is far from the Swedish Armed Forces' stated needs of 18 billion for this period – a sum that happens to be consistent with the one that the Swedish Democrats have budgeted for 2018 – 2020. I would like to make a comment on this low bet, please.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-404	Madam President, I would like As Roger Richtoff says, a substantial addition is needed. That was something I spoke about in my speech. We dropped out of the defence group because we felt that the government's contribution was far too small. That is why we put in our budget 50% more than what was in the agreement. We stand by what we said in the election movement: Sweden should have a staircase up to 2 percent. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland are up to 2%, and Norway is 11⁄2%. We must also ensure that in the ten years' time we reach the same level.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-406	Madam President, I would like It's okay; I share the view of the stairs. We have a stairway in 12 years, and 13 years to go up to 21⁄2%. We are negotiating this budget in the party and we are hearing our efforts under this stairway. The focus is now set for these three years. To invest 4 billion by 2020 when the Swedish Armed Forces demand 18 and then claim that you are laying a staircase in ten years up to 2 percent is an equation that does not add up.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-408	Madam President, I would like It is sad that Roger Richtoff and his party do not understand that it is not enough. You do not want to join NATO, and we do not join NATO but will manage on our own not enough money that Roger Richtoff mentions at all. It's not a deterrent. You say that cooperation with Finland is enough. It's a good cooperation, but it's not a deterrent enough, Roger.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-410	Madam President, I would like Much has been said about defence policy in this debate. However, let me emphasise the fact that the world situation is continuing to deteriorate. There have been mentioned some examples of extensive exercises to the east of Sweden and some of the conditions in Ukraine, where the war is now unfortunately taking off again. Let me add an example: for some time now there have been advance-grouped American soldiers inside Norwegian territory. This has not happened since the Second World War, Madam President, and the United States is now considering further expanding its permanent military presence in the country. Britain also has similar plans. The whole story of Sergej Skripal and the neurotoxin novitjok, which has taken place for six months and which this week led to President Donald Trump more or less directly accusing the Russian President of being involved in these poison killings, is another example of at which breathtaking speed the world is continuing to deteriorate. The 2015 decision has been called a trend crime by the Social Democrats. I would like to remind you that throughout the previous term of office, the defence budget continued to fall as a percentage of GDP, and we still have, today, more or less the same war organisation as we had 15 years ago. In my world, Madam President, this is not a trend break. It's another four lost years. We must step up our economic efforts in the field of military defence. 2% is the measure for NATO. A non-aligned country must aim even higher. And it is important, Madam President, that we focus our financial contributions on what makes us dangerous in the near future. What has happened in the past parliamentary term has focused very much on new large-scale equipment projects. They are spelled new submarines, new fighter planes and new mid-range anti-aircraft. And, Madam President, it strikes me time and again that the heartbeat in Swedish defence policy is not the dunk of an automatic cannon, but the hammers of the Swedish weapons forges. We must also, and it was Mikael Oscarsson on the inside, take those last staggering steps into NATO. Without NATO, it does not matter how big our defence appropriations are. We must work together on our security, as a small country is forced to do. Madam President, I would like Much can be said of the time of the Alliance in power, including in the field of defence policy. But the fact is that during the eight years not a single regiment and not a single flotilla was laid down. If the chairman of the Defence Committee, Niklas Karlsson, had been close to him, the Swedish defence economy in those years would have been 5 billion less.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-417	Madam President, I would like The election campaign is over. It was some of us who thought that the defence was an issue that could possibly be debated during the election campaign, but thank what we were cheating on ourselves. Some of us saw that the defence issue had climbed up as the tenth most important issue in Swedish consciousness for the first time, at least during my lifetime. But that didn't happen, and I guess there's a reason for it. I believe that the reason lies in the government's view of how the defence of the future is to be financed. Perhaps you can draw conclusions only from this debate. Until this morning, no government representatives, i.e. representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, were registered for the debate, while we are now six Moderates in this House. Later, a social democrat signed up for the debate. That is good, because it means that we can ask questions and perhaps get answers. There is perhaps also a picture that there is a great deal of agreement on defence policy, and perhaps that has to do with the forms. But I'd say it's a bit of a chimare, because there's a huge difference depending on which parties are running. It is interesting to note that in today's debate all the Alliance representatives have talked about the future, while the Social Democrats devoted a greater amount of time to history. Although there is a great deal of consensus on defence decisions and their implementation, it is of course a politically remarkable process where you look five years in time and tell what to do in five years' time, after a period where you may not even be in your position. It is difficult to make decisions that are so far into the future. Often the biggest investments and the most difficult decisions end up very far ahead. This has often meant that the defence decisions that we in Sweden have taken have not been fully implemented. At the same time, we know that we need to increase our ability and our relative ability, because we know that the opponent will continue to increase his ability for a long time to come. What does it mean to increase your ability or your operational capacity? What makes us not able to defend ourselves is that some units do not exist, that is to say that on paper there is a name and a number, but there is no staff. It is clear that then there is no operational capability. But there are also units that are available on paper and possibly also have staff but that lack material that is fundamental to its function. It is clear that they then have a very limited operational capacity. The third part is bandages that are available on paper and possibly have materiel but have not been allowed to practice and therefore cannot solve their task. Then they also lack the significant operational capacity. All of these three categories are found in different parts of our defences. Finally, the Swedish Armed Forces have calculated what it would cost to implement what we have arrived at jointly in the Riksdag, that is, the defence decision. It has been concluded that it would cost about 18 billion over the next three years. We have for a long time been leaving defence personnel and officers in the lurch by not completing what we have promised in politics. It is important that we now actually implement this defence decision, so that we can not only strengthen our operational capacity but also leave a clean sheet for the next generation and the next defence decision and move on and actually look to the future. If we do not make it clear what we have already said we are going to do, we will never be able to look to the future, but then we will always have to repair and make fire brigade suppressions in the event of the shortcomings that arise. The fact that the defence does not have the resources to implement that defence will affect not only a year but several years to come. Therefore, I have to ask the government representatives: why do the government representatives not want to increase our relative defence capacity?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-425	Madam President, I would like I have a question. It also applies to the economy. The Moderates say it takes a lot of money for the defense. But for 2018 you didn't set aside a penny more than what the Social Democrats did on the defense, Jan R Andersson. For next year, you set aside EUR 3.3 billion more, and for 2020 you have budgeted EUR 6.3 billion– a total of EUR 9.6 billion. And we know that the Armed Forces are asking for 18 billion in order to achieve the goals that we politicians have decided on. That's one thing. The second is that we say 'no' to NATO. We believe that a strong Swedish defence, preferably in association with Finland, is a stabilising factor in our part of Europe, and we still have that view.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-427	Madam President, I would like For the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, the Swedish Armed Forces have requested SEK 3.5 and 10 billion. We have not submitted a budget yet for 2021. But we have made a promise to meet those requirements, that is, 3.5 and 10 billion, so the demand from the Swedish Armed Forces will be met. As the honourable Member raised the question of a defence alliance with Finland, I have to ask a question. The reaction that came from Russia was about the same as if we had joined a defence alliance called NATO. Then the question is whether Roger Richtoff does not think it would have been a good idea for us to join NATO, because the reason you do not want to take this position is because you do not want to run into Russia. But if the defence alliance you propose is as reactive as a defence alliance with NATO, is it not as good that we join NATO?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-429	Madam President, I would like I think Jan R Andersson reads the Russian newspapers a little poorly. What concerns us are the agreements that we reach with NATO, host country agreements and so on. All the agreements described can be entered into in association with Finland. We are two non-aligned countries, one of which has very close ties and allows a NATO unit to group in Sweden. What the newspapers are concerned about is the credibility of our policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-430	Madam President, I would like Since I do not speak or read Russian, I trust our authority FOI, which provides reports. From there it has been shown that the reaction to the defence alliance with Finland and also partly with the United States has been quite similar to that which has been towards a rapprochement of an application to NATO. The question, Madam President, is that we should apply for an alliance that gives us real protection, or should we be in an alliance that gives us the same problems with foreign power but not the same protection?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-432	Madam President, I would like I react when Mr Andersson says that everyone is talking about the future except the Social Democracy, which only talks about history. There is an excerpt of my speech that the honourable Member can look at. Apart from that, there is reason to talk about what it has looked like before. Reality does not speak in favor of Moderates and Andersson. Rather, during the time we had a moderate government – for eight years – it was the first time a defence minister resigned, and it was because the defence was used as a budget regulator. General military service was abolished by three votes in the Swedish Parliament. Against this should be put all the efforts that the Social Democratic-led government has made in these years. It is about combat group on Gotland, additional units that have been organized and mortar capabilities that have been added to the Home Guard, and we have in 2017 decided to reintroduce military basic training with military service and so on. It is easy to stand in the speaker's chair and say that it is too little and too late. Reality speaks another language.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-436	Madam President, I would like We had a round of lines earlier, but let me note that I commented on the fact that on the alliance side we talked a lot in the future while representatives of the government side, that is, the chairman of the Defence Committee, spoke history. None of us did so to a great extent. And now he's doing it again, so maybe my comment was relevant. We in the Alliance think it is important to look forward, because that is where the operational capability is built. It is clear that we are concerned when we see that the Swedish Armed Forces are currently planning for large savings. That is what I explained: If you are going to build operational capabilities, you have to give resources to train the units, and it is precisely this ability that is currently below the savings loop. I regret that. As I began my speech with, I also regret that the Social Democrats and the other members of the government have not given any information to the Armed Forces to the extent desired. But there is still time for this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-439	Madam President, I would like There are probably reasons why the Moderates do not want to talk history, because the description of reality is not to their advantage. It was only when we received a Social Democratic-led government that new resources were added to the Armed Forces and the ability of our security policy could be strengthened. We have said that we want to continue with these efforts. We shall continue to move in the direction that the Government and the Riksdag have said in the orientation bill. The difference between us is that we not only talk, but we do too.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-441	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that the opposition policy that you represented earlier, Niklas Karlsson, was not implemented, with the huge savings that were put into the Armed Forces. If we're gonna talk history, we need to talk about both. We did not make a great deal of effort on the defence, but your opposition policy would have meant a great deal of savings. I think President Karlsson should be aware of this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-443	Madam President, I would like I will dwell on the possibilities and limitations of Nordic defence cooperation. I will speak as a warm supporter of deeper Nordic cooperation but also as a rather tough critic of the Nordic Council, which is the main political expression of this cooperation. We have deep historical ties and a linguistic and political community of values between the Nordic countries. We're almost the same size, and we share roughly the same threat picture. It is therefore quite natural that we have a defence cooperation between the Nordic countries. We are already working together in areas such as education, equipment procurement and international efforts. In recent years, Nordic defence cooperation has focused more on military mobility and mobility, and this is something that has made Norway and Denmark more interested and involved. All of this is fundamentally excellent, but Nordic cooperation also has important inherent limitations the closer we move the hard core of defence policy. The Nordic defence cooperation is nevertheless a cooperation for peace-time conditions that ends in the event of war. This is essentially due to the fact that we in the Nordic countries are deeply divided in our security policy choices between the EU, NATO and military alliance freedom. That is deeply unfortunate for two reasons. Firstly, the Nordic countries share a community of security policy destiny that has never been as strong as today. Should one or more Nordic countries be subjected to an armed attack, there are no longer any political or military conditions for another Nordic country to stand neutral or even non-warring. It is enough to look at a picture of northern Europe. There you can see that all Nordic countries would unfailingly be withdrawn in the event that several or more of them would be subjected to an armed attack. Secondly, if we really want to deepen Nordic defence cooperation, we must have the same security policy solutions in the event of war. It is only then that we could seriously integrate our defence forces and, for example, build a common air defence. We would also get much more out of the SEK 150 billion that we in the Nordic countries spend on defence every year. But this, Madam President, requires Swedish and Finnish NATO membership. The fact that Norway, Denmark or Iceland would leave NATO in a situation where NATO is perhaps more important than ever for Nordic security is almost unthinkable. Madam President, I would like Now that the dust has settled after the election movement, we need to have an open and honest debate about the advantages and disadvantages of Swedish NATO membership, also for Nordic defence cooperation. Such a debate cannot begin in foreign policy identity policy or be caught up in historical reference points from the past, but it must be based on the broad consensus that exists in this House that security is best created in collaboration with other countries. The debate must also take a step in what I believe to be a change in security policy developments in the immediate area. The situation we are experiencing now in our neighbourhood is not some kind of temporary stack cloud on the security policy sky, but is about long-term climate change for the worse for Nordic security.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-450	Madam President, I would like I feel it is important today to talk about the security situation in the Baltic Sea and about the marines. The security situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated in recent years. The Baltic Sea region is once again in focus for a massive military capacity growth driven by Russia. The ongoing Russian aggression against Ukraine also shows that Russia does not shy away from using military means against its neighbours. Sweden is inevitably affected by an armed conflict, if this occurs in the Baltic Sea region. We Moderates want to prioritise the Baltic Sea region, including Germany and Nordic Baltic cooperation, through increased and broader diplomatic cooperation. Madam President, I would like We Moderates are working to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities in the uncertain environment we are in. To do this, we want Sweden's defence funding to increase to 2 percent of our bnp. This is not done in a flash, but it is our ambition that it should be done within a ten-year period. Then it is important to have a high level of cost control and good efficiency. We have also put forward proposals for additional resources for defence here and now. Of course, we have a reasonably good level of preparedness in the Navy's operations. I am thinking of a few scenarios from the Swedish Armed Forces' perspective study: that, in the event of an armed attack, the naval forces can quickly gather together, that they can sustain territorial integrity throughout our coast for a long time, and that they can consistently exercise and challenge control at sea on their own territory. But we can also read in Ingemar Wahlberg's material investigation that a number of different ships are of old age, that the amphibious system has relatively old technical equipment and that all ships, including Visby corvettes, lack robot air defence. Madam President, I would like The Navy really needs to reinforce the amphibious units. Visby corvettes need to be modified half-time, and then we also need to ensure that they get robot air defences. We also need to strengthen submarine hunting capabilities through, among other things, the acquisition of solid underwater sensors. While we are talking about submarines, we need half-time modifications of the Halland submarine to make it five submarines today. Unfortunately, they don't last forever. Therefore, two more submarines already need to be acquired. They're not free. If we're lucky, they'll land at $4 billion per submarine. It's like a larger municipality's annual budget. But we Moderates believe that they are needed, and that would strengthen the marine capacity for naval combat, the ability to protect our territorial waters and intelligence capabilities. Now there was a lot about material and hard issues. Last, I would like to highlight the most important thing, namely the personnel of the Armed Forces. Someone is going to drive the Visby corvette and do all that other things that an ordinary person does not really notice by a regular Wednesday in October. They will defend our country. Here we want moderates to be clear; we want to see a comprehensive package of investments in better benefits and rewards for the employees of the Swedish Armed Forces in order to both recruit and retain existing skills.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-459	Madam President, I would like Last spring I stood in the speaker's chair and lifted the importance of the Swedish Armed Forces being given good opportunities to practice. Then it is good that many have talked about that we should also have a strong defence and that we should extend the framework. At the same time, we must be aware that the needs of the defence have a negative impact on the possibilities of building housing. For some municipalities there may be a balance between two strong interests. However, I think it is easy to determine what weighs most. If Sweden is to have a defence, it must also be given the opportunity to practice. We are living in an increasingly troubled time. The security situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden continues to deteriorate. The threat picture is about traditional military threats as well as increased intelligence activities, misinformation and cyber threats aimed at Sweden. We Moderates therefore want to increase resources for the Swedish Armed Forces. Sweden's defence funding will within ten years amount to 2 per cent of GDP, which in the long term means a doubling of today's funding. This will mean that the defence must be given the opportunity to practice much more than today. In this context, it is quite worrying when a very necessary establishment in Gotland is counteracted by the region. For eight years in Gothenburg they have tried to find a suitable place to practice in the archipelago environment without finding suitable land. When it comes to Gothenburg, the Port of Gothenburg and West Sweden as a whole, these areas are identified by the Defence Committee as high priority when it comes to increasing our defence capabilities. That is why it is crucial that there is also an opportunity to practice in the environment in which they are expected to operate. At the same time, we have seen that the defense has been forced to put extensive influence areas around its existing exercise fields so that the environmental code does not limit the possibilities of using the exercise fields as intended. In my own municipality of residence Halmstad, the municipality's ability to build in attractive locations has been largely limited. Madam President, I would like Last spring, when I spoke about the challenges of reconciling these two interests, I also proposed a solution to at least part of the problem. Let me repeat that proposal. The current situation is based on too rigid legislation that makes it impossible for the defence to exercise and for the municipalities to build new housing. It is therefore necessary to make a substantial effort. We must get back to a situation where we see that the defence of our country is a natural part of everyday life. This means that we have to accept that it will also allow some from time to time – it does so when the defense practices. Instead, if we focus on solving the task together, where both defence and housing can be combined, we can go further. If we in the Environmental Code can allow some form of service for the defense's training activities, we can satisfy both interests. In this way, we can secure both the defence's opportunities to practice and our municipalities' opportunities to build housing. If we are serious about building a strong defence, we must do so together with our municipalities and regions. Then defence becomes a natural part of our everyday lives and can be seen as an asset and not a burden because of rigid legislation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-466	Madam President, I would like It was four good and interesting minutes to listen to Lars Püs. I fully share the view on environmental testing. I have been looking at the issue for a year and I have come to the conclusion that it is a matter of building in the noise zones. The Swedish Armed Forces will say no. If construction is allowed, there will be other problems. What does the Environmental Code say? There's gonna be a crash. I have come to the conclusion that the legislation needs to be reviewed. After all, we want to allow settlements within the noise zone, but we do not want anyone who expands a porch – to whom there will be a blank no – to claim that there is too much noise. There we are today. It feels like you are also working on the issues relating to this legislation, Lars Püs.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-469	Madam President, I would like It's a good thing Richtoff thinks the way I do. We should not confine ourselves solely to defence activities, but should also include agricultural activities and the like. But since we are debating defence, I am sticking to that area. It feels like the environmental code has gone away from us in the area for a period when we have not prioritised the defence so high. There is good reason to make a major move on this issue.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-471	Madam President, I would like The second part that I assume Lars Püs is looking at is the environmental tests. As you know, trials now take place three times. Why are there three trials? If the shooting area is to be extended by an extra weekend, it may take six months up to a year to get the permit. We are working on making a proposal to remove at least one of the instances to speed up the trial. How does Lars Püs view it?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-472	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to get involved in developing a new regime for environmental testing. I live a mile from Lv 6 shooting fields, and I feel that the defense takes on a great responsibility in these exercises. They try to adapt, be flexible and disturb as little as possible. I feel it happens in most places. I can agree that it takes time, but in some cases it is good that it takes time.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-474	Madam President, I would like Thank you for many interesting aspects of the defence policy that have been brought forward by previous speakers from the speaker's seat. One thing I would like to emphasise, however, is what moderate representatives in particular have put forward in the debate, namely the imminent and real need for increases in resources for defence within a shorter period than we have anticipated. This is already the case for next year, and we Moderates are aiming for 2% in the next few years. However, there is not much to cut in terms of variable costs within the Swedish Armed Forces, but these cuts affect both education and practice. There will be a gap which can have devastating consequences, particularly as regards staff's willingness to stay and not seek out other labour markets, that is to say, a flight of personnel. Resource search hastily. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to continue to talk about personnel and personnel management within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is also something that Alexandra Anstrell brought out. In this context, when we talk a lot about bullets and gunpowder, I would like to talk about a small operation which nevertheless cuts through voluntary organisations linked to the Armed Forces and crisis authorities, right into headquarters and sharp efforts. In my remaining minutes, I would like to give a voice to our field performers, who include some 700 members, 400 of whom have been directly involved in sharp action from Chad to Afghanistan, Mali and Kosovo, and also here at home. They are classified under the Defence Educators, and what is unique with the Swedish field artists, Madam President, is that they are not just hung on a uniform to go on a mission. They also receive military positions and training and are trained, which makes it very interesting for other countries to look at how we organize this particular activity. It's unique. What is the function of the field artists? I would like to say that, together with doctors and priests, they are an inalienable part of the human resources of our efforts, both nationally and internationally. We can go back to World War II and what Ulla Billquist meant to our soldiers during the years of preparedness. There was Vera Lynn for those at the front, who longed for home, who could not cope, who were far from their families, perhaps without any hope of survival. This is also the case in our intervention organisations, where we send Swedish women and men away in this House, many times on very dangerous missions with our own life as an effort. What does the music do for us? Well, it induces emotions — feelings of joy, feelings of sorrow. It's an emotional leprechaun, to quote Mia Löfgren, chairman of the Field Artists. The field artists are extremely important to our veteran movement, and the two collations with each other. They also seem national. The field artists moved in during the difficult fires this summer and made people take a break, take a little more time and cry and laugh together. We must not forget the small businesses when we talk about cannons and submarines.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-484	Madam President, I would like All the way into the tile. Unless the sky falls down. 3 – 2 – 1. The euphemisms are many when the Moderates describe their relationship with the Swedish Democrats. The Moderates still have the same problem as after election day: the Alliance became smaller than the Red-Green. The government ideas of the Moderates would have meant becoming dependent on the Swedish Democrats in every crucial vote. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are Parliament's most anti-European party. It is also a populist party calling for simple solutions and exploiting people's concerns. We see xenophobia, solitude and racism. We see Swedish Democratic Party representatives shamelessly claiming that Sami and Jews are not Swedes. This populism, racism and genuine EU hostility is serious. Madam President, I would like Today there are 221 days left before the European elections. It's an important choice. That is when we should choose the path and what future we want to face. Europe has been torn and cut up by a host of bloody wars and conflicts. The EU is created for peace and freedom and benefits us very well economically, environmentally and interpersonally. We now live with very few conflicts within the European Union. Peace and freedom result from the free movement of people, capital, goods and services. Openness and attitudes to each other lead to competitiveness and growth for Sweden as well as for Europe and out into the world. We benefit greatly from the European market, trade agreements and free movement. 70% of Sweden's exports today go to the EU's internal market. Economic development is important. Growth provides more to distribute in the form of more well-being and life chances. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: our European commitment is the most important parameter for the success of our businesses and the business community. We Social Democrats are relentless in their view of the European Union. The Swedish Democrats want to leave and oppose the EU. We want to protect and develop the European Union. The Swedish Democrats are Parliament's most anti-European party and therefore Parliament's most anti-business party. Together, we will stand on the right side of history. The policy of the Swedish Democrats goes against so much of what we are proud of: openness, cultural diversity, world-class equality, one of the world's best business environments and the EU. With Europe, we can influence the development of an even better Europe. Cooperation builds stronger and safer societies. An ambivalence, threat or exit from the EU would harm all companies in Sweden very seriously. Madam President, I would like The Moderates that I got to know them encouraged us to dare to be both Haliman, Swedish and European. They encouraged us to open our hearts. That is why I am addressing Europe's supporters: how can you work to prevent EU hostility from taking hold? How can the Moderates contribute to the declaration of goods by the Swedish Democrats as the most anti-European party in parliament and thus the most anti-business party in parliament?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-493	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Markus Selin that there is no racism in our party, in our politics or in our values. There's no Jew hate either. On the contrary, I would argue that we are perhaps the most Jewish-friendly party in the Swedish parliament, and there is no problem with the Sami population either. On the contrary, we defend the right of the Sami population to be classified as a minority. So, as far as the EU is concerned, we do not criticise being able to cooperate with other countries, trade with other countries or interact with other countries. On the contrary, our criticism only applies to the fact that other countries or bureaucrats from a large colossus called the EU are in charge of Sweden's domestic policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-495	Madam President, I would like When I listen to the Swedish Democrats, I am very surprised. These are calls for simple solutions, Johnny Skalin. You have written in your election manifesto that the Swedish Democrats defend democratic self-determination and therefore want Sweden to leave the EU. You are in favour of a svexit – a svexit that would lead to budget chaos and directly harm Swedish companies. Look at Britain today! It would not lead to anything good at all. This is something I strongly warn against!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-496	Madam President, I would like It is clear that you can warn that Sweden will leave the supranationality if you have supranationality as your primary virtue. The fact that we have a difficult process when Britain now wants to leave the EU is not because of the UK but because the EU is trying to keep the UK within the Union, which is about not wanting to see more countries leave the EU. Therefore, they do just as Markus Selin does here and use very large words in order to frighten other countries.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-497	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small, highly export-dependent country up in a corner of Europe and the world. Only threats of Svexit, which the Swedish Democrats advocate, risk harming Sweden. This isn't a game. There are 221 days left before the European elections. That's when we're going to choose which path and what future we want to face.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-498	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Europe need more cooperation, not less. Not least, we need to work together on issues such as cross-border crime, the environment and research. We also need to have a continuous discussion about opportunities to visit each other's countries and exchange students between countries. Of course, we also need to focus on trade, because we need trade. We need more trade, not less. Trade is developing the economy of ours and of Europe; I believe that all parties in this House are fundamentally in agreement on this. Therefore, it feels strange when you witness how the discussions are going around Brexit. The other parties argue that the UK, after leaving the EU, should not be allowed to take part in the EU's internal market. The EU welcomes new Member States with high corruption and democratic deficits and countries with low economic standards, which not least drives up Sweden's EU contribution. This, at the same time as the European elite – which is largely not even elected by the people and thus not possible to remove through democratic elections – punishes the UK, which democratically chooses to leave the supranationality of the EU. Within the EU, we will therefore trade with Iceland, Norway and Switzerland, all of which are non-EU countries. However, the EU should not trade with the United Kingdom, which is currently importing from the EU at significantly higher amounts than it is exporting. I think that I say something about what the European Union looks like today is actually something. Sweden and Europe need more trade, not less. Sweden and Europe also need more democracy, not less. We cannot rely on, for example, Germans, Spaniards, Greeks or others to understand what needs we have or what it takes to keep our country up, both economically and socially. Nor can we rely on non-elected bureaucrats in the EU to understand our need for cooperation or what issues we think are important in Sweden. The Europe we have today is a long way from the Europe that the voters voted for in 1994. It is therefore a reasonable idea that the Swedish people should be allowed to take a position in a referendum on what they think about the developments that have taken place in the EU from cooperation to supranationality. In February 2017, four out of ten Swedes said they wanted to see a new referendum on the EU. Given that the EU has continued to discuss policy areas which it believes should be transferred to European level, the question of whether a referendum has not become less relevant since then can be considered. Such a referendum would also clarify, through the debate, not only what the EU is today, but also what both politicians and voters want Europe to be tomorrow. Madam President, I would like It is high time that we politicians discussed the greatest democracy issue of our time. It is time we discussed when a new referendum on the European Union could take place.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-504	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to take part in this debate, but I feel obliged to ask Mrs Skalin a question. As you describe it, Johnny Skalin, the EU does not want to trade with Britain. My picture is that there are few descriptions that are so wrong. What it is about is that the UK does not really know how it wants relations with the EU to be. I think that if you want to participate in the internal market, you also have to accept the four freedoms, so my question to Johnny Skalin is: what do you think a relationship between the UK and the EU could look like? The British themselves don't seem to really know that. You mean that it is possible to gain access to the internal market without, for example, participating in the EU Customs Union, as Norway and other countries do.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-507	Madam President, I would like After all, it is not the case, Mathias Tegnér, that all free trade agreements signed by the EU with countries outside Europe are based on the four freedoms. In the case of the United Kingdom, however, that seems to be the demand. It is because the UK is within Europe, and the EU wants to keep the countries that have once joined. The EU also wants to expand its membership further. It is partly this that leads to a crack in the discussions. Many things discussed in connection with the British withdrawal can be accepted, but this is a major point that harms not only the UK economy, but also, and even more so, the EU and Sweden. It is a development that I find sad to see, and it is not even necessary.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-509	Madam President, I would like My question to the honourable Member is whether it is not the case that Britain has to define what relationship it wants with the European Union. I do not think that the EU should impose a relationship on the UK with the EU, but the UK must decide for itself whether it wants to be part of the internal market. The EU has been in favour of signing a free trade agreement. But you cannot both be part of the internal market and have a free trade agreement – and, moreover, you cannot pay for the things that have actually been decided on. It will cost Swedish taxpayers if they pursue the policy that the Swedish Democrats stand for.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-512	Madam President, I would like With regard to the question of the membership fee to be paid by the United Kingdom, there is some agreement, at least in broad terms. That's my picture. I have been following the question for quite some time, so I think I have a fairly clear picture of the situation. What is the case with the free trade agreement is that Britain wants to trade with Europe. Britain wants an exchange with Europe. The problem is that Europe, which at this stage is made up of the EU, is making steamy demands. It's something we wouldn't have to do if we could talk to each other a little more.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-514	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to be able to open up the part of the general policy debate that should be about economic and regional policy. I hope it will be a good and clear debate. My speech will be about Swedish competitiveness. The development in Sweden is in many ways moving in the right direction. Sweden's economy is strong. More than 300 000 more Swedes have a job to go to today than four years ago. The share of different compensation schemes is the lowest since 1981. The government has turned the budget deficit of the former alliance government into large surpluses and increased investment in health, education and long-term care by 35 billion. However, challenges are not lacking. That is why, in the run-up to the elections, we Social Democrats presented the greatest security programme in modern times with more resources for health care and schooling, raising pensions and an uncompromising fight against crime. Madam President, I would like These issues are very much about industrial policy, although at first sight they do not seem so. Several international studies show that the companies in Sweden have very good conditions and framework conditions in relation to what it is like in the outside world. For years, Sweden has subscribed to ten-in-the-top positions in various competitive rankings, such as the OECD's competition index. This type of index measures such things as infrastructure, health and education, higher education and innovation. Anyone who believes that competitiveness is just a single sector or a single tax rate is therefore mistaken. In fact, in criminal areas, the most important industrial policy effort may be an uncompromising fight against crime. Madam President, I would like Sweden has shown, and will show, that we are a knowledge-intensive nation at the forefront of innovation and digitalisation. We are also at the top of the list when it comes to green innovation. We shall continue to work in this way, and we shall continue to have an effective innovation policy. We also know that four out of five new jobs come in small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we Social Democrats want to continue to give small businesses and entrepreneurs better opportunities to grow. We want to increase the opportunities for companies to finance expansion, and we want to simplify the regulatory framework, so that more companies can grow and hire more people. We have already done so during the last parliamentary term. For example, we introduced a growth subsidy that basically removes the employer's contribution during the first year when you hire your first employee. We have increased the security of entrepreneurs in parental leave and illness, although there is much more to be done in this area. We have also added more money for innovation and growth loans. Finally, we have introduced reliefs in the taxation of employee options for small and fast-growing companies. Madam President, I would like In short, there are three very good reasons why Sweden needs an active Social Democratic economic policy. It leads to full employment and increased growth, it creates the conditions for people to walk between different forms of employment and it pushes towards equality and a society that stays together. Swedish industry and our small and medium-sized companies should have good conditions. This together with education and better matching enables Sweden to continue working for full employment. That is how we continue to work to build the strong society. And for that, Madam President, there is a need for a social democratic economic policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-523	Madam President, I would like There are several things in Mathias Tegnér's speech that I think we can agree on. I will come back to that later in my own speech. Let me point out that there are now some post-calculations with regard to the last four years with a Social Democratic-led government. Two out of three entrepreneurs feel that running a business has become more complicated. It is therefore the receipt of this fine rhetoric. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight another issue, namely the port issue in Gothenburg. If you take the competitiveness reasoning seriously and see that it has been port problems that have caused the competitive industry and at the same time it has taken several years to approach a political solution to such a problem that is actually directly harmful to the Swedish industry, then at least my conclusion is that it is not OK if we mean seriously – red or blue – that we want to do something to strengthen competitiveness. Then I would like to address a question to Mathias Tegnér: Are you prepared to help us see an early solution to the port problems in Gothenburg?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-527	Madam President, I would like I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on pursuing a good business policy. It is good for Sweden, and it is good for employment. On the other hand, as far as the regulatory problem is concerned, we know from the eight years before the last parliamentary term that we had an alliance government that talked very much about reducing the regulatory burden. Yet, as at present, companies perceived that the regulatory burden was increasing. That is why I think we can see that both the government that is sitting now and the previous alliance government have had problems getting to grips with the regulatory problem. I think there are two ways forward. The first is that we are actually working broadly and together to try to reduce the hassle that exists. We need to look at how EU rules are implemented, because 90% of the rules actually come from there. Finally, we need to work harder on digitalisation, because it would make it easier to run a business.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-531	Madam President, I would like We will come back to the issues of regulatory problems and how to link words and actual actions in this regard. I believe that it is there, to some extent, that it has broken in recent years. So one thing is said, but then it has not been experienced that way. The second issue, which is serious, concerns the port problems in Gothenburg. If we have a situation around logistics that is directly harmful and that can last several years, that is not good. The question is: can we do something in common to resolve this as soon as possible?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-533	Madam President, I would like As far as the rule is concerned, I do not agree that there is a difference between what you say and what you do. The government is working hard to reduce the regulatory burden. Then we know that much comes from the European Union. I believe that we can work together on the issue of the regulatory burden, if it does not mean reductions, for example, in the ambitions of environmental policy. There will then be a great many of them, because environmental policy is extremely important. As far as the port is concerned, I certainly hope that we can work together to solve the problems. And our Prime Minister has said that he wants to be an active force to solve these problems.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-535	Madam President, I would like It's been an intense election campaign. Many have probably been on company visits, and I have been on company visits at home in my constituency in Gävleborg. I can note that if there are any electoral groups that have been declared and disappointed in the current government, it is precisely the job creators and entrepreneurs. Surveys show that the business community's confidence in Stefan Löfven according to Today's Industry Panel is approximately 12 per cent. I don't know if the confidence in any sitting prime minister has been less. The business community's confidence in Ulf Kristersson is 79 percent. Mathias Tegnér mentioned competitiveness in his speech. I would like to ask: in what way has 33 billion in increased taxes during the last parliamentary term strengthened the competitiveness of Swedish industry and its ability to be on the world market with its products?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-538	Madam President, I would like Taxes are, of course, important. But I think the honourable Member is mistaken if he believes that single rates are the most important issue of competition. Giant tax cuts that we saw during the time of the alliance government, mainly for the richest, are unfair and lead to inequality. But they also increase the saving rate in the economy, weaken the economy and risk pushing up interest rates and uncertainty in the economy. I therefore dare to say that Sweden is at the forefront of competitiveness, not even though we have high taxes, but actually because we have it. It is our taxes that finance infrastructure, education, research, labour market policies and conversion policies. What I would like to hear from the honourable Member is how Sweden's competitiveness is improved by, for example, the removal of growth subsidies, which are about reducing employers' contributions when a newly started company hires the first person.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-541	Madam President, I would like As everyone could hear, we did not get an answer to the question of how 33 billion in increased taxes strengthened the competitiveness of Swedish industry. This debate is about both enterprise policy and regional policy. A government that has increased fuel taxes by 6 billion and introduced electric bicycle subsidies for 1.75 billion has thus not contributed to the whole of Sweden being able to live. But answer the question, Mathias Tegnér : How has increased costs for business strengthened competitiveness?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-543	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member asked a question about how it strengthens our exports. We can see that Swedish exports in the last four years have broken record after record. We have a government that has put forward an export strategy that has helped companies export their products around the world. We have also invested in innovation beds that make Sweden at the forefront when it comes to innovation. It is progressive policy that ensures that Swedish competitiveness is actually among the best in the world.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-544	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a well-functioning and good country, but we also face some problems and challenges in the coming years. In this brief speech, I would like to point out some things that I think will be important for us in the field of enterprise policy. A first area is trade policy. We know that tariffs are bad and something that businesses or consumers always have to pay in the end. We know that it hits countries such as Sweden particularly hard, where trade accounts for a large proportion of the economy. If we add to the discussion on Brexit and increasing protectionism both within the EU and internationally, I think it is good to conclude that it will be important, for us in Parliament and for the government we finally get, to promote less protectionism and more trade and trade agreements. It is not an easy task, but it is still an important task for the Swedish business community. The second issue I would like to point out is, of course, integration. We know that many new arrivals are going into the Swedish labour market. Some are well educated and others are not, and it will be a test. At least in our context, these are issues such as grant ceilings and reduced income taxes on low incomes coupled with reforms for entrepreneurs so that companies can be set up, grow and employ. The third major area I would like to point out is competitiveness. It is nevertheless the case that we are being tested vis-à-vis competitor countries. It is nothing new for companies in Sweden to sell things to customers in other parts of the world, but competition is intensifying. We cannot take our role in the world for granted. It is important that we, as parties and decision-makers, look at and compare how Sweden stands up to competing countries when it comes to such things as taxes, schools, research, transport and other things. I also think that competitiveness is about concrete political proposals, such as ensuring that we have the ability to attract skilled people to move to Sweden as labour immigrants. It can be car-plate repairers, university professors, medical researchers and others who have important roles to fill in order to develop the business community in different parts. We need more reforms such as cut-off times, new categories of visas and other things to be even more attractive. We also need to improve for entrepreneurs, including by extending the option rules in order to create better conditions in start-ups. Sweden also needs to take a position when it comes to such things as digitalisation and AI. We in the Moderates have proposed the creation of an Institute for Applied AI, so that Sweden as a country can take a position. In a change of line in the past, we were on the port issue, and I think it is telling. As it was said there, we have a problem that is causing it for many industrial companies, and yet it takes politics years to approach a solution. It is not reasonable in the modern world in which we live, but we as politicians need to be quicker at making decisions. Competitiveness is also about solving real and important problems in the daily lives of entrepreneurs. This is, for example, a matter of the rule they face – or of such a thing as crime, which unfortunately is the everyday life of many entrepreneurs. These are robberies, shoplifting, smash-and-grab coups and other things, and there we need to have proper efforts on police and other justice systems. It is about solving the basic problems and strengthening competitiveness. Sweden is good, but we have both problems and challenges ahead of us. I hope that we can use the coming years in Parliament to make good decisions for the country's entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-553	Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, the outgoing government has at last done its utmost to paint a picture of the Swedish economy being strong. I am opposed to that picture, Madam President. The truth is that the future looks rather bleak for Swedish trade, the competitiveness of Swedish companies and Swedish growth in general. When the election was over, SCB wrote down its growth forecast for the past two years. It was sunk. In addition, according to the International Monetary Fund's Spring Report, Sweden was estimated to have the lowest growth rate across the EU in terms of GDP per capita. It is worth bearing in mind when you hear these depressing facts, Madam President, that we are in a boom – a boom which, moreover, has been characterised by expansive monetary and fiscal policies in order to try to promote the growth which, with the result in hand, has been too lacking. Having said that, Madam President, the next recession will be extremely hard on both traders and workers. Last week, the OECD released a report comparing work with regulatory improvement in the EU. Even there the statistics were depressing, when Sweden has fallen behind and in some areas is below the average when it comes to the regulatory simplification work. This is hardly what Sweden's companies need to grow and create more real jobs. Madam President, I would like It is my strong opinion that it is not us politicians who are primarily creating jobs and growth. However, it is our duty to do what we can to ensure Swedish competitiveness internationally and to provide the industry with the right conditions for it in turn to create the prosperity on which our well-being depends. We therefore urgently need to systematise the government and administrative authorities' work on regulatory simplification, while at the same time clearing it up among the onerous rules which today only seem to be hampering growth. In order to succeed, however, the dialogue with Sweden's business organisations needs to be expanded so that greater transparency prevails in the regulatory simplification work. We must also ensure that impact assessments are carried out before future decisions in this area are taken. These have long been some of the proposals of the Swedish Democrats in this area, but that is also what the aforementioned OECD report highlights as desirable measures. Madam President, I would like Sweden's business sector deserves better conditions. Sweden's business sector deserves to be appreciated rather than taxed. Sweden's industry deserves policies that safeguard the value it generates. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are responsible for such a policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-560	Madam President, I would like I share the view expressed by Tobias Andersson that it is for us politicians that it is about creating conditions – it is not us, in our role as politicians, who create companies or jobs. One of the prerequisites is, of course, trade, the internal market and the European Union. The Swedish democrats' view is that Sweden should leave the EU. We should not stand here in the speaker's chair and beautify this cooperation; it has, of course, both advantages and disadvantages, and I believe that every party has ideas on how to develop it in different ways. However, the fact remains that some of the most important markets for Swedish companies are in the internal market. These are countries such as Germany, Norway and several others. The situation in Britain creates great uncertainty about what happens to many. This applies not only to Swedish companies but also to companies around Europe. I therefore wonder: from the point of view of the Swedish Democrats, how can Sweden's leaving the European Union improve its prospects? After all, Europe is our most important trading partner.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-563	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to correct Mr Helmered: we want to renegotiate our agreements with the EU, or have a referendum on membership. However, I would also like to point out the fact that our export share to the countries that are part of the European Union has fallen compared to the share when we entered the Union and before then, as well as the share of our exports to EU states at present. I would also like to point out the fact that in many ways the EU restricts free trade around the world. It is true that the internal market is trying to promote free trade, but it is also true that tobacco cultivation in Greece, for example, is subsidised. What concerns me most, however, is the obstacles that are being put up against those who are not part of the internal market. We set tariffs and tariffs, subsidise our market and do not give developing countries the opportunity to build up their economies through the growth that free trade had generated.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-566	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has studied in my hometown of Gothenburg, where there is a large car industry. They are very clear that common European rules, which can develop a car model that can be sold throughout the European market, are a great advantage for them to develop new car models cost-effectively and be able to meet, for example, environmental requirements gradually. The message of the Swedish Democrats is to leave this Union with an unclear outcome. I do not understand how this would be better from your perspective for Volvo's and other important employers' competitive conditions forward.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-568	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to point out to Mr Helmered that we do not wish to leave the European Union; this is something I said quite precisely a minute ago and I am now repeating. However, it goes without saying that we want to retain the trade that we have today. We want to ensure that, should that be the case, we still become part of the trade that is taking place. What I am opposed to is the supranationality that prevails at present, where we are not given an opportunity to take decisions for us as a nation, important measures. This is a competence that you, Lars Hjälmered, want to give away even more to the European Union.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-571	Mr President, I would like to Norrbotten is not only the peak of Sweden; Norrbotten is not even a quarter of Sweden. Above all, it is an exciting, rich and dynamic part of the world, right between New York and Tokyo. Norrbotten has an Arctic climate and is populated by few but fantastic people. In Norrbotten there are frivolous people, diligent and proud professional workers and pensioners, ambitious students, skilled entrepreneurs and world-leading innovators. Norrbotten is world famous for the wealth of natural resources, such as iron ore from Kiirunavaara, the finest wood raw material from the Norrbotten and Lappish forests, unique nature, untouched wilderness, silence and our clean water. Three of Sweden's four national rivers flow here, and there are thousands of lakes and streams as well as the Bothnian Sea. We have dancing aurora lights, and we have midnight sun. We have the Esrange Space Base and world-unique attractions such as Treehotel in Harad and Icehotel in Jukkasjärvi. We have Vidsel Test Range, Europe's largest military instrumented training and testing area on land, as well as the entire test cluster in Arvidsjaurs and Arjeplog municipalities and the surrounding area. But the main resource of all of them is also the biggest shortage, namely all of us who live in Norrbotten. We're too few northerly bottoms. We are Sami, tornadoes, Swedish Finns, Swedes, men, women and queer. We're young and old. We have lived here since ancient times or moved here last year. We all have our peculiarities, just like mankind on earth. It is the love of Norrbotten that unites us. It is in Norrbotten that we want to live our lives. This is where we want to build our future and see our children and grandchildren grow up. But who will pay for the care, school and care in Norrbotten when fewer and fewer people will support more and more people? What can we do at national level to drive the development of the Norrbotten business community and capture the potential of business growth opportunities? Mr President, I would like to The Norrbotten business community is multifaceted. It ranges from traditional reindeer husbandry and reindeer husbandry to world-leading companies in space, mining and mineral industries, creative industries and tourism, each with its value chains. In Norrbotten we like to fend for ourselves, to do things ourselves and to make soft drinks of all kinds. For example, the residual product pine oil from the sulphate pulp mills is something we cook pine diesel, biooil and terpentin off at the biorefinery Sunpine in Piteå. At SSAB, Hybrit has been running since a couple of years. It is a joint venture that SSAB formed together with its state-owned business partners LKAB and Vattenfall. These are three large state-owned companies with crucial importance for Norrbotten's history, present and future. Hybrid tries to replace coal and coke, which have traditionally been important in iron ore-based steel production, with hydrogen. If Hybrid succeeds, it will be a unique export success from Sweden. Today, steel production accounts for 7% of all CO2 emissions globally. Nationally, we can and will protect and promote the Swedish export industry and our companies. We can, as the Center Party proposes, move more of the state's functions to smaller places where the cost pressure is lower. We can regionalise parts of the values created by exploiting our natural resources. We can invest in infrastructure throughout the country. It is precisely in order for us to have a functioning well-being in Norrbotten that we need to have a growing business and more taxpayers, and that is why the Norrbotten business community needs good conditions.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-584	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants Sweden to develop as a knowledge-driven society. Jobs are created when innovation and innovation are translated into new products and services, not by competing for lower wages and conditions. Having said that, I would like to highlight why the supply of skills is so important to us and why it is being opposed to the pit spray that the right-wing parties have had in politics. Small companies are an important engine for Sweden's industry, not only because such companies can grow and grow, but also because they can drive new ideas and innovations forward. The vast majority of companies operating in Sweden are small or medium-sized. That's our strength. Today, Swedish entrepreneurship and industry are strong thanks to the innovation, exploitation of competence and the foundation of knowledge that we have. That's where we compete. It is therefore surprising that this aspect is not discussed more when discussing business, because today Swedish industry is screaming for the right skills. The truth is, if we don't solve this, we're gonna lose ground. We will lose strength – the developing life science industry, the efficient base industry and our innovative, driving small business. When industry calls for skills to be provided, higher education institutions are alerting them to deterioration in quality, and students – the future competences – are not given sufficient opportunities. The freedom of establishment and the opening of private schools have led to joy certificates, segregation and poorer conditions for many students. We have read in the media how students from private schools fare worse at colleges and universities because the private schools triple the grades to maintain the student base. We have also seen how profit-driven schools can go bankrupt and shut down business from one day to another. How does it affect the future supply of skills if pupils' schooling is so unstable? In many areas, upper secondary schools have disappeared completely; for example, they have almost disappeared in the suburbs of Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö. How does it contribute to the area, and what does it have to grow up to be? There has been a very fine thought structure in Sweden that is also very modern, namely the possibility for each of us to easily change direction, re-train us or further educate us. That is what a modern working life looks like today; you may not stay your entire working life in one place. Perhaps you move on to another company or change direction completely. In order to face up to this, upper secondary school must provide all the opportunities so that our young people can make these changes. That is why it is extremely problematic that we have a great need for young people to study to qualified professional jobs, but that so few dare to do so because the programmes do not grant higher education qualifications. If we are serious about wanting a strong business, why are we strangling the most important thing we have for business development and success? The Left Party believes that the state should be the main driver of education and eliminate the pursuit of profit, which would ensure quality, resources and geographical distribution. By allowing vocational programmes to grant higher education qualifications, we are opening up opportunities for young people instead of closing them down. That's how we build a strong business community.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-598	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for the honourable Member. As in my shift with the Social Democrats, I would like to hear about the 33 billion tax increases that took place during the last parliamentary term. In what way did it strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish industry? Another relevant question to the Left Party is, of course: how does it strengthen competitiveness with the 67 billion you want to raise tax by during this term of office? I have a third question. The Left Party wants the state to be the principal of all companies in Sweden. You want to socialize the whole business community. It would be interesting to know how to do it. You have said that, in the short term, you want state-owned construction companies. I would like to know in what way it benefits entrepreneurship in Sweden that the state forms and operates construction companies? How does it benefit the construction industry? It would be interesting to have some developed thoughts on this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-601	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman had a question about state-owned construction companies. If we are to be honest, the housing policy that has been pursued has not been effective or good enough. For example, where I work, Astra Zeneca, young people are forced to buy an apartment in order to take a job at all when they come to us from other cities and have studied elsewhere. If we are to be honest, this is a major problem for business. A state-owned construction company has come forward as an idea for us to increase the pace of construction in the country. Thus we could build the apartments we need to have a functioning business. Today, housing policy is a problem for business.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-603	Mr President, I would like to So there are ideas from the Left Party that the state operates companies better than the companies themselves. I do not believe this at all. I believe that Sweden's entrepreneurs in free competition with each other is what creates, for example, effective competition and keeps prices down. I do not believe at all in the communist idea that the state should be the principal of all workplaces in Sweden, which would be the consequence of the Left Party policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-605	Mr President, I would like to I wish you could stick to the facts when you stand here in Parliament's pulpit. Lars Beckman gives a distorted picture of us. Let's get back to the skills supply. Nevertheless, one must be able to see the reasonableness of the problems I highlighted in my speech that young people, for example, may lose their education from one day to another because of school failure.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-607	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor because Lorena Delgado Varas mentioned innovative businesses. We all know that they are also in the public sector. Six out of ten women work there. There are many ideas and good activities that have emerged through women who run companies. I would like to link this to what was said about free schools, which the Left Party does not want to see. They do not meet the requirements they are to meet, according to the way the Left Party sees it. Grading inflation is everywhere, and that's something you have to work with. In addition, there is alarming information from schools, including in Malmö that do not have free schools, about how it works there with worry and trouble.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-610	Mr President, I would like to We know that there is enormous economic inequality in society. At least I would like to see a school that helps to balance this in society. Such a model for society I do not see in the profit-making schools that you have opened the doors to. I myself come from a suburb. There I see for myself how the children who are safe and strong in their childhood go from the suburbs to study. Those who remain are the students who may need more support. It would be nice if the state could have a more comprehensive way of managing education for all children and young people in Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-612	Mr President, I would like to We come from different places in Sweden. I myself live in a place of use. There we have had a free school that has worked very well and has had very good results. It laid down the Social Democrats, and now people are being taught in barracks because they couldn't afford to finish what they started. Let's leave it at that. The discussion is about the investigation that has said that you get profits over, which is not true. What the government does is systematically take one step to close these schools. I want to know how it benefits Sweden's students.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-614	Mr President, I would like to Instead, I would like answers to the questions I asked about skills provision. Today, schools have been shut down from one day to another. Thousands of students have been without education. The municipalities are then allowed to take responsibility after these schools have closed down. What does it mean for these young people when they go to work when they have had a traumatic schooling? I strongly question the fact that this model helps business.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-616	Mr President, I would like to It's an exciting time we're living in. We are currently seeing the arrival of digitalisation taking off with a final goal that no one knows where it ends up. Our society is changing along with it. Today, you can live in almost the whole world and still work for a job or an employer without having to be physically present. I compare this with the arrival of industrialisation which took off at the beginning of the 20th century. People then moved to the industries in order to take up employment. Families built their lives from a larger workplace where they were privileged to work. It was from where the companies were located that our societies developed. Today, our everyday lives are increasingly measured in happiness. It is about the happiness of being able to live a life in the best way based on one's own circumstances and to experience the good life. This places great demands on social planning. How do we ensure that we build a society in which housing, together with business, leisure and recreation – all those things that enable us to live the good life – are within reach? Today we see that our societies are either depopulated or even more populated. The possibilities of digitalisation, for example, mean that more companies can be on the international market, almost regardless of which industry they belong to. You can be self-employed or work in a global company and still have the opportunity to have the same conditions for growth if the conditions exist. Is this possible in today's Sweden? Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that we need to look at business issues and entrepreneurship from a completely new perspective, where we work to ensure that Swedish companies and companies have good opportunities to create growth. Ultimately, we are talking about people who invest time, energy and energy in creating strong and healthy businesses to develop each day. They are successful companies that represent social development and job creation and generate tax revenue that in turn generates our welfare. We Christian Democrats cannot express enough that there is a need to simplify the rules as digitalisation goes further and further. The government has partly moved in the opposite direction. For example, in the summer, the government introduced human resources in further industries and companies. This is neither a sign of digitalisation nor a regulatory simplification for small businesses, but a direction towards an out-of-date way in which the effect at all is not to make it easier for small businesses. To make things easier, solutions are needed on how to work to make common rules fit into the digital world in which we live. We Christian Democrats are working hard to enable more companies to live and develop. We need to create the conditions for simplification, not creating further regulatory problems in an out-of-date manner. We Christian Democrats want to be involved in creating the conditions for growth in our companies in the digitization era in which we live. Without companies, we have no welfare. It's not the state that's hiring, it's the companies.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-623	Mr President, I would like to This is my first speech in Parliament. It's exciting. I'm a liberal. I don't think life should be a lottery. You should have the opportunity and the freedom to do what you want. Together, we will make it possible. Views on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship must therefore be strengthened. Society must be involved in supporting it. Entrepreneurship issues have long been on the shelf dusting. In Sweden it must be as obvious to be employed as to be self-employed. It should, of course, start at school already, and it does, thanks to Young Enterprise. But it has to start even before. If you ask any five- or six-year-old, I don't think that entrepreneurs are up and running. Norms are meant to be broken, and this standard must be broken soon. If Sweden is to live, there must be jobs. As a liberal and former entrepreneur, I know that better business conditions create more jobs. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenue, which in turn finances, for example, our common welfare. In addition to increased tax revenues, growing companies mean new life opportunities for individuals and reduced exclusion. Mr President, I would like to First of all, we need to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses. In a 2017 survey, more than 60 per cent of companies responded that they experienced regulatory problems as one of the most important issues to deal with. Sixty-four percent replied that the regulatory burden was heavier than two years earlier. In addition, Sweden has lost its international ranking in recent years. It is time for us to take action and start aggressive simplification work, but not tomorrow – that work must start now. Mr President, I would like to The welfare system cannot be based on dividing citizens into an A- and a B-team, where employees are offered better protection than those who choose to create a welfare-creating company. Today's labour market requires clear and general rules that protect all citizens. The schemes for sickness benefit, unemployment insurance and parental benefit, for example, must be treated equally between entrepreneurs and employees. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market benefits people who have been employed for a long time. Today's strict labour law makes it risky to employ and difficult to keep key employees in bad times for small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore want to change the order rules so that it is competence that will determine who needs to leave the workplace, not how long the employee has been there. At the same time, increased support for labour law is also needed to strengthen the transition of redundant persons. Therefore, the Liberals want to introduce a compulsory unemployment fund and a contribution paid by the employer to the employee when he is dismissed for lack of employment. Mr President, I would like to For us liberals, entrepreneurship is both an expression of the individual's ability to realize his or her dreams and a prerequisite for our common society. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. By reducing the regulatory burden on companies, ensuring that sickness benefit, unemployment insurance and parental benefit systems are treated equally between entrepreneurs and employees, and modernising labour law, we create security for entrepreneurs and employees, a stronger business environment and, above all, more jobs.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-632	Mr President, I would like to No matter where we live and where our companies are established, we have the right to equal and equal conditions. When the Social Democratic-led government took office, there was no coherent regional policy for rural areas, a policy that put the whole country under a lup and provided the same conditions. The former government set up a parliamentary rural committee with all parties. The Committee did a very good job and made a number of proposals. This resulted in the rural bill, which was decided in this House in June of this year. This means that rural policy is firmly established for both current and future governments. We think that is very important to stand up for. The decision on the rural bill was in itself a paradigm shift for Sweden. This is important to hold on to. The bill presented investments of 11⁄2 billion for 2019 and 2020 and an additional 400 million to achieve the policy objectives. These are actions in areas such as business, entrepreneurship, digital communications, transport infrastructure, innovation, skills, community planning, housing construction, commercial services, welfare services and the presence of the state throughout the country. During the eight years of the bourgeois government, 10,000 jobs and positions of authority were centralised to the big city of Stockholm. How did it benefit the whole country? Under the leadership of Ardalan Shekarabis, the government has started a major relocation and localisation work to ensure that the state is present throughout the country. It has so far been more than 2,000 jobs. In the days, it was announced that you continue to do this job. Among other things, the Swedish Enforcement Authority will be located in Sundsvall, which provides a number of jobs. It also sends a very important signal that the state has obligations throughout the country. Ardalan Shekarabi and I also had the opportunity to open a service office in Sorsele. It is part of the country from which the state has largely disappeared. Entrepreneurs do not get the same service, and citizens do not feel seen. There, a public service office has now been opened, where the authorities work together on the ground. It's hugely important. I would like to mention four electoral promises made by the Social Democrats. We need to make it possible to live and live throughout the country. That is why we need to review the beach protection rules so that it is possible to live and build throughout the country. We also need to provide economic conditions for living throughout the country. It must then be ensured that the government enters with government loan guarantees where commercial banks do not find it interesting. We do not think it is reasonable that travel expenses can be deducted in order to be in traffic traffic in the big cities. We need to redistribute the travel allowance so that it benefits the distance and the countryside. Those who actually need the car should be able to make deductions for what they need to get to work. What we also need to do to ensure the supply of skills, which is the major challenge for companies across the country, is to make it possible to write off student loans in smaller towns. We believe that this would increase the opportunities to study throughout the country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-640	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats and the Green Party raised the tax by 33 000 million in the last parliamentary term – only on business. Then we can add another 33 000 million on us as individuals. The tax on fuel was increased by about 6 billion. It is, of course, purely punitive taxation of those of us who live north of the Dalälven River. The Diesel Prize in Västerbotten has now passed SEK 17 per litre. On top of that, flight taxes have been made more difficult.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-642	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman! It is clear that Lars Beckman and Isak From do not have the same view of taxes and how taxes can be distributed and provide conditions throughout the country. Lars Beckman and I do not have the same view that everyone has to contribute according to their abilities. The reason why Norwegian is phasing out its traffic in Skellefteå in this case is that it is an over-establishment in Skellefteå. I have now flown a number of times with Norwegian. It may not be reasonable that you can go back and forth Stockholm for 700 SEK. It may not be possible to build a future activity on those pricing practices. It must also be possible to see that the train is competitive. That's why we want to build the Norrbotnia Line, among other things. It's something Lars Beckman doesn't think is very important. We want to spend tax money on that. The fact that we raise taxes has to do with the fact that we had a deficit of 60 billion when we took office.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-646	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement: we do not agree on the tax system. We do not agree that EUR 60 billion in increased taxes has created improved competitiveness. We do not agree that a diesel price of over SEK 17 per mile is reasonable. We do not agree that the Left Party wants to go further and raise taxes by 67 billion during its term of office. I do not understand how Isak From can believe that you create the opportunity to live and live throughout Sweden with that policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-647	Mr President, I would like to Of course, neither I nor Lars Beckman may like Trumps's trade war. When President Trump of the United States terminated the Iran Agreement, the world market price was raised. I do not believe that we are producing new competitive biofuels that provide jobs and development from the forestry industry with a seriously lower tax rate. I don't think that's the way forward, Lars Beckman.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-648	Mr President, I would like to Isak From and I also have very different views on entrepreneurship and that the whole country should live. Isak From says that it should be equal, fair, throughout the country and that the state should be present. I think that sounds very good. But that's not what it looks like. I'm not from northern Sweden anyway. I come from central Sweden. Entrepreneurs in my home county Örebro County cannot even connect online when paying their Swish invoices at home. There's no broadband. It's a huge problem. How does Isak From view this?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-650	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Olsson! That's a very important question. The initial point was that the S-led government raised the target for broadband deployment. It went from 10 per cent, or 1 million, not having access to fast broadband to the goal that everyone should have fast broadband by 2025. There's a huge difference, Lotta Olsson. Now we have raised the target. Everyone has the right to fast broadband, and especially entrepreneurs throughout the country. Otherwise, it won't work. We're in complete agreement.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-651	Mr President, I would like to We can be in complete agreement. Well, that's not what it looks like. In my municipality they are very pleased with the results. I think we will soon be up to 90% in broadband expansion. It's about the central areas. It's not really hard. In densely populated areas it comes very quickly. If you are a fisherman, as one of my neighbors is, and someone is going to come and pay the bill via Swish, you have to based on that the copper net is also removed set in a small box that he now calls the Swish Box.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-653	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Olsson! That is why the S-led government saw that the market will not be able to expand throughout the country. That is why we need state intervention and state aid to expand in the most peripheral areas. That is also why we need to tighten up the requirements for telecommunications companies so that they comply with the concession and build throughout the country. We've been too bad at that. Now we've tightened the requirements. Those who take the new concessions will build throughout the country so that it will work even for the fishermen.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-655	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor because I reacted to what Isak From mentioned here. He beats his chest about the authorities that have been relocated from Stockholm. I obviously share the honourable Member's view that it is important for the state authorities to be present as the Employment Service or the Social Insurance Agency. At the same time, it is important when you take the big moves that the government has now made you stick to the truth. Sida will be moved from Valhallavägen to Botkyrka. Maybe it's not good for the whole country. It is also a question of providing skills. The Radiation Safety Authority will now be located in Katrineholm. At the same time, we know that we are phasing out nuclear power. We're going to be able to store nuclear fuel. How has reason been made? Once I have made contact with the departments to get impact assessments, there are none. What does Isak From say about that?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-659	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg! Of course it's been a bit like that. It has required that we have had a government that has been able to point with the whole hand and say: this is possible. It's obvious. It is as well as that when we have citizens who live in Botkyrka or in Katrineholm they should have opportunities for rapid communications. Authorities shall have the possibility of rapid communications. That is why we need to have a skills supply and a system that works throughout the country. Of course, you will find the relevant skills if you make an effort. But then we must continue to point with the whole hand. You can't sit back and say, I don't think you can. It is difficult in sparsely populated areas, and Katrineholm is far away. That's not good enough. Of course Katrineholm should have the same conditions. There's supposed to be authorities. The residents of Botkyrka should also feel that Sweden is for them as well as for Sorsele residents.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-661	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I'm really happy with that answer. Of course, the whole of Sweden will live. But we also need to secure competence. I am therefore surprised that the government is not carrying out an impact assessment of the authorities that are being moved. What you write is that in September October you will tell a little about how it went. Is it really a government's job to mismanage a mission like that? It's about both finances and skills.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-663	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg! What the former bourgeois government was doing shines through a little. It is a matter of centralisation policy and of looking at each authority separately. When each Director-General decides for himself, it becomes a pipe thinking and not a whole. Then all of a sudden everyone says: We must probably be located on Sveavägen or in the Old Town. It's not like that. We need to have a government that can point with the whole hand. Then we will have to take relevant measures where necessary. But so far, I can't see it's necessary.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-664	Mr President, I would like to There are big words here from Isak From about the rural bill. It is called a paradigm shift. I am very happy that Isak From shares my and the Center Party entrance that the whole country will live. That is a very good starting point for what we need to do in this House over the next four years. Let us zoom into an important policy area for you and me, Isak From, which comes from the northern regions. I am, of course, talking about the mining and mineral industries. My question is quite simple. Does Isak From think that the government has pointed with all its hand in promoting the Swedish mining and mineral industry?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-666	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linda Ylivainio, for the question and for your speech! I share a lot of your entrances there. What we can see about the mining and mineral industry is that the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment regarding North Kärr has seriously made it more difficult for the Swedish mineral industry. The judgment indicates that a company must show the consequences for neighbouring activities in a very large area 50 years ahead. I don't think that's possible. You need to look seriously at whether you need to review the mineral law to make it possible to break the mineable metals that we so badly need.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-669	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm shocked. Now Isak From is here talking about a review of the mineral law – exactly what many critics of the mineral law want. It is all those who want to scrap the Swedish Mining and Minerals Act. This law has been a cross-block foundation ever since it was introduced, so what Isak From now says is extremely surprising. It is clear that the judgment has made things more difficult. However, the whole process of legal development in the EU area is running smoothly, and is being driven by government partners. Are you satisfied with the development of the Swedish mining and mineral industry during the government that sits?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-671	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish mining and minerals industry is subject to high pressure. However, we will need new metals, not least earth metals, to ensure access to electronics and so on. We can't just rely on recycling. No, I'm not fully satisfied. But it is about the consequence of this. The Supreme Administrative Court has said that each company must show 50 years ahead of time what happens to a farmer 30 miles away. I don't think that's possible. If you don't realize what that consequence is, you can't stand here and say what Linda Ylivainio says.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-673	Mr President, I would like to According to a study from Jönköping University, only 36 out of 290 municipalities are increasing their younger population. These are undeniably alarming figures. But it is also interesting because the study shows that the municipalities that succeed have certain common features. Above all, they have a nutritional structure that suits young people by having many companies that can offer the first job. They also take advantage of tourism's many jobs. See here some success factors to mitigate the impact of urbanisation on young people! But more is needed. If we want people to live and work throughout the country, we have demands for working broadband, telephony and commuting opportunities for jobs and schools. Companies are the key, but we also need a policy that understands companies' conditions. It is therefore distressing to read that companies today see the regulatory burden increasing. Several Members have spoken earlier today and raised the issue. But the green industries have not been mentioned, and what we see there is that they are particularly hard hit. The legal requirements to keep track of have more than doubled in 20 years. Today, the requirements amount to over 600, and this has not even taken into account the changes that have taken place in the legal requirements. Developments in the number of permits that farmers and forestry workers need and requirements for keeping records of all these are the same. Different authorities request the same document, and farmers are forced to spend more and more time on paperwork – time that would have been needed to develop the business. This is not sustainable, especially as agriculture and forestry operate basic industries that are so important to Sweden. They are the key to increasing food production and thus the Swedish level of self-sufficiency. They are the ones that contribute to increased sustainability and climate benefits by producing forests and vegetation that can absorb and bind carbon dioxide. But they are also the ones who can strengthen rural areas with the right conditions by creating new jobs. In fact, there are studies on the growth of different companies and how they contribute to new jobs. It has turned out that a company that can increase its turnover by 1 million creates 2 1⁄2 new jobs if the company is food producing. The cut for other companies in Swedish business is 1.4 jobs, i.e. more than one extra job. This is an opportunity that we cannot allow to be lost. Mr President, I would like to That is why we Moderates want to increase the development potential and competitiveness of green industries by systematically counteracting the regulatory difficulties experienced and also reviewing the Swedish specific requirements introduced against other EU countries. We want to reduce the tax on diesel in agriculture and forestry. We do not want to introduce mileage taxes, nor do we want to introduce taxes on fertilizers and plant protection products that can wait around the corner. On the contrary, we want to provide the opportunity to develop activities, including by reviewing beach protection rules. I am pleased that Isak From shares this view. We want to allow farm sale of beer and wine, and we want to increase the workforce. It is also a problem that rural entrepreneurs share with the rest of Enterprise Sweden; one lacks skills and one lacks labour. Finally, we want to increase the applied research that Swedish agriculture and forestry need.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-682	Mr President, I would like to Today, fewer people have experience of agriculture than ever. Fewer than before live in Sweden's rural areas. Therefore, the question of what agriculture is has become relevant. Is that a special interest? Is that something society at large can do without? Nothing could be more wrong. Our agriculture provides food with qualities that go far beyond food intake. It is about world-class animal welfare, environmentally friendly production with little antibiotic use and products we recognise and relate to. Farming gives us open landscapes. But what does that really mean? Well, it is the quality of life in everyday life and the prerequisite for the exciting journey, the enriching walk, the hunt and the picnic. There is also an existential dimension. It's about the original industries and the laboriously broken fields of our ancestors. In short, it is a landscape that we need to feel good. Imagine a train trip from Malmö to Stockholm where you travel through a landscape with what is most profitable if there had not been agriculture! Of course, there will be spruce fields. Agriculture is also a prerequisite for national self-sufficiency. In a crisis, national freedom and room for manoeuvre are facilitated by the fact that we can stand on our own feet. Foreign power will affect us in the way that costs us least for it and most for us. You don't have to think war. Without agriculture, it is enough for our trade to be disrupted. Agriculture is a resource base for rural areas. It's done where no one else bets. It is a resource base that the countryside itself generates and controls in a different way than through initiatives that come from here in Stockholm. It means self-esteem, self-determination and stability. It means a living countryside. It is also our cultural heritage and culture in a more general sense. When values shift with the courage of the big city, rural areas provide an opportunity for value stability. Rural areas also provide a different way of living and being self-employed in nature in our urban times. As much more is possible if the profitability is good in agriculture. As much less is possible with poor profitability. With sufficient margins, agriculture would have greater resistance in exceptional situations. You may think of summer's drought, and you are right to do so. But there are so many more factors for an individual farmer that allow him or her to end up in an exceptional situation. Technology development, business development, innovation and niche – all of this is made possible by good margins and impossible when margins do not exist. This means that when we increase the profitability of agriculture, we will build future profitability. But we are also building alternatives and opportunities for environmentally friendly production. A profitable farm has the opportunity to meet society's demands for respect for the environment and cultural heritage. In Sweden, we have high-performance and high-quality agriculture, but it is difficult to compete and difficult to achieve profitability. This is because Swedish policy today does not allow it to compete on reasonable terms. We Swedish democrats want to give Swedish farmers the same conditions of competition as Danish farmers. We want to reduce diesel tax to the Danish level, and we do not want to introduce commercial manure tax and other charges. Farmers will be compensated for Sweden's requirements for grazing for dairy cows. We want to improve social sustainability with support for relief services. Abolition of salary contributions for the first three employees is a reform that also revitalises agriculture. I summarise: a viable agriculture is a prerequisite for what the citizens need and what we want to do. Profitability is a prerequisite for viability. We understand that, and we deliver. Do you?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-692	Mr President, I would like to In autumn 2015, the Red-Green Government decided to introduce ID controls in Sweden. It was a decision that hit hard on labour market commuting and growth in the Öresund region. There may be differences of opinion on ID controls, but regardless of what one thought about the introduction, one must be able to look critically at the consequences that it created for the Öresund region. With transporter responsibility, major traffic disruptions and a huge unpredictability for those who commute, work or shop across the border, the ID controls were directly detrimental to the growth of the Öresund region. The way the Red-Green Government introduced the ID controls shows a lack of understanding of how decisions here in Stockholm affect the rest of the country. I was born in Sundet's pearl Helsingborg, which is part of the Öresund region and what, perhaps to Stockholm's chagrin, is called Greater Copenhagen. It is a region with 4 million inhabitants that accounts for 26 per cent of Sweden's and Denmark's combined bnp. It is a region of growth, but it is also a region that is split by a border despite our attempts to build bridges. The Öresund region is a fantastic region. The Öresund region is the gateway to Europe and the world, and the Öresund region is a powerful growth engine that drives Sweden forward. However, the growth engine has some gravel in the machinery that prevents us from driving at the highest speed. For example, unemployment is higher than the national average. Different regions of our country face different challenges but also contribute to the country's prosperity in different ways. In 2000, the Öresund Bridge was inaugurated, which connects the Öresund region, the Fehmarn Belt region and Sweden with Denmark. Now we see the need to seriously start planning for the next step, namely an HH link between Helsingborg and Helsingör. It is not only the Öresund region's growth engine that is slowed down by traffic congestion and bottlenecks at the border. Food from Västgötaslätten, technology from Stockholm, basic industry from Norrland and furniture from Småland are just a few examples of exports that often pass Skåne. When it is combined with the expansion of double tracks on the West Coast Line that connects South Sweden with West Sweden, an express file is created, not only for the Öresund region but for all the growth engines of Sweden's regions to run on. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country on its way to a recession. To stand strong in an environment where competition is fierce, we need to give Sweden's job creators and growth creators the best possible conditions. We do this when we let the Öresund region become the flowering labour market region it has the potential to be and let it be both an engine and a highway for Sweden's growth. All parts of our elongated country are different, have different opportunities and different challenges. These unique opportunities and challenges require different solutions. Skåne needs an infrastructure that better connects the entire Öresund region and also increases accessibility to the different parts of the country. Above all, however, we need to be listened to before and not after decisions are taken that have specific consequences for our region.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-699	Mr President, I would like to Summer 2018 will go to history as one of the warmest and driest in manna memory. If you like sun and bath, it has of course been a great summer, but the historically warm and dry summer has not been as lovely for everyone. For Swedish farmers, the dry summer has been a disaster. With heat comes drought, with drought follows feed shortages and feed shortages lead to large losses for already heavily strained farmers. Even before the drought struck, many wondered how they would make ends meet. I do not know how many farmers I have talked to during the summer who have really expressed their great concerns about how the feed should be enough during the winter, partly because the harvest has become so disastrously poor, partly because many farmers have had to feed the animals with winter feed already in July. Many of us are grateful for the rainfall that has come in the autumn. But the danger is not over. I last spoke yesterday with a farmer who is still very worried about how the feed should be enough during the spring. It is very important here that the government that takes office takes several different measures. We in the KD are in favour of the proposal promised by the current government with aid packages of 460 million, but we think that is not enough. We want slaughterhouses to have reception duty so that no animal needs emergency slaughter. It would be a full-scale disaster for farmers to have to slaughter their animals because the feed is not enough. It would be very bad both economically, morally and for the environment. Mr President, I would like to During the summer we saw several calls to buy meat from Sweden. It's still very important. It is also important that the country's municipalities and county councils are more careful to buy meat from Sweden – with Swedish animal regulations and the lowest antibiotic use throughout the EU. Mr President, I would like to The severe drought is a major concern, but the basic problem is not only the drought but that the profitability of Swedish agriculture is too poor. Many farmers find it difficult to make ends meet. A few years ago, in this House, we adopted a food strategy. It is good, and it remains an important document. It says that we want to increase profitability and increase competitiveness and so on. Here we see in the KD direct action for a new government to take by, for example, reducing diesel tax and reducing the huge bureaucratic burden. It is important that a new government moves away from talking about changing to the farmer actually feeling that the change is real. Mr President, I would like to I was going to tell you a little bit about feeling it's real. We can imagine what it feels like for farmers who still have not received their EU payments from 2015, 2016 and 2017. You might wonder if they think it's real or not. It is very bad that the state cannot fulfil its commitments when the farmer is fulfilling his obligations. If the farmer makes the slightest mistake in his applications, there may be costly consequences, but if the state fails to keep its promises, it is enough to blame computer troubles. It won't hold. Here there must be a tightening up of the state. To increase confidence in the state's fulfilment of its commitments as the farmer fulfills his obligations must be in absolute focus. The focus must also be on increasing food self-sufficiency. Today we have a food trade deficit of over SEK 50 billion and food self-sufficiency below 50%. It is very worrying that this is the case in view of whether a crisis or a war situation should arise. We are used to food coming just in time, but in a crisis situation this would be very serious. That is why it is very important that we take this very seriously.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-706	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for your speech. I know that Magnus Oscarsson is passionate about the green industries and is really committed to them. I appreciate that. Magnus Oscarsson said that you in Kristdem okraterna are in charge of the 400 million that the government has announced for this year, which is good, but I would like to know how Magnus Oscarsson believes that the government for next year has announced 760 million in order for the industry itself to prepare proposals for efforts that are important to compensate for the consequences of the drought. It will be a pretty important input if, god forbid, the KD gets some influence in government formation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-708	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Isak From! Gud forbid-- No, I don't think so. On the contrary, I think it would be good if we were to join the government. So we are in favour of 460 million, not 400 million, as the government has proposed. We think it's important. What has happened shows how serious it is. But as I said in my speech, drought is only a small part. The main concern is that profitability is too poor. That's why we think it's good to have 460. We do not know what government it will be. But we want to come back when we present our draft budget. And I will come back to our other proposals for action in my next line.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-711	Mr President, I would like to The farmers are probably quite interested in knowing whether the promised support for the next year announced by the government will be available. Or will it change significantly? I think farmers are quite interested in finding out, to be honest. I agree to some extent, but Magnus Oscarsson forgets that the bourgeois alliance and SD fell our first budget. There we had strong additions to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. Now the Swedish Board of Agriculture has paid out SEK 28 billion. It is most of all EU countries.
i-HMrsf1fCM7YjAdDVbeCLtQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isak From! The farmers in Sweden say: It is great that you come with 460 million. But that's not enough. It's too little. I hope that the Christian Democrats will be involved in forming a government. Then we have proposals for action. For example, we want to reduce diesel tax, which would have a direct effect on the farmer.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-715	Mr President, I would like to It's beautiful in Norrbotten. It is beautiful one evening in the middle of winter when it is completely still, crispy, clear, scentless and pig cold. It's beautiful one night in the middle of summer when the sun doesn't set. It does not intend to do so for several more weeks. The same applies to a nice spring winter's day on the ice, with pimple rod, kickstötting and cooking coffee. And an equally nice late summer day is hot in the air; a jogging trail carries the dense scent of sun-warm pine heath, so thick that it seems to be possible to cut into – and millions of mosquitoes. There are also great values in Norrbotten. Sweden's second strongest growth region with heavy base industries such as mineral industry, forest and clean energy becomes a competitive advantage of the site and attracts large climate conscious companies such as Facebook. It is the test site for everything from car tires to advanced big computer technology and military rockets. It's exciting in Norrbotten. We have a growing tourism industry with exciting sights such as Tree Hotel in Harad, Icehotel in Jukkasjärvi and Storforsen in Vidsel. We have a rich cultural life that has its very special character of minority cultures and strong peoples' movements. But it is also sparse in Norrbotten. Norrbotten covers almost 25 per cent of the country's surface but is home to only 2.5 per cent of the country's inhabitants. Some of our municipalities have, quite rounded off, a population density of zero inhabitants per square kilometre. Rural policy will then be important. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the freedom that people have to choose to live wherever they want, it is important for the whole of Sweden's growth and sustainable development that people live throughout the country. However, the rate of urbanisation in Sweden is high, and it may seem inevitable that young adults, especially young women, leave rural areas for the city. I make three important points here: When we allow the market to provide the conditions for life's opportunities, places with limited purchasing power will end up with exceptions, simply because the market wants to operate where there are many and preferably strong customers. That is why liberalisation or tax cuts are not the political responses to rural issues either. If the inhabitants of Sweden's rural areas are to have good conditions for a good life, the public must be there. It is about schools, postal services, police, medical care, pharmacies, car testing, broadband, telephony, care for the elderly, social services, roads that can be driven on and so on. The Public Procurement Act is based on market logic. Companies compete with each other to sell goods and services to the public. But how many offers does Arjeplog municipality get into their school shooting procurement? It becomes so clear that the market does not have the answer. During the previous term of office, we have carried out several important things in government to make life possible throughout the country. We have supported grocery stores, decentralised government jobs and set up government service offices to move government services closer to citizens. We have increased Norrland support for agriculture, invested in learning centres and distance education, and invested billions in broadband expansion. We have made a substantial increase in the ambition of the infrastructure plan for better road, rail and shipping throughout the country. We've started investigations into the compensation system, the beach cover and the travel allowance. We have not least added more resources to Swedish welfare. It would be nice if we could continue along this path if rural and sparsely populated areas were to continue to be considered important for the growth and sustainable development of the whole country. Whatever government takes office, there is much to do. We who live in the countryside must be able to trust that the police will come when we call, that health care is there and that we are connected with the outside world when Telia removes the old copper pipeline. It's beautiful in Norrbotten. There are also full of values in Norrbotten. But there's sparse between the houses.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-728	Mr President, I would like to It is heard in the honourable Member's dialect that he was not born in Norrbotten. But the commitment can still be there. I am thinking of the EUR 6 000 million in tax increases on fuels that this government has implemented. I was born and raised in Norrbotten, have driven many and long distances up there and have a lot of family up there, and I know how devastating it is when the diesel price has passed SEK 17. One of the most angry municipal councillors in Sweden when it comes to government policy is Niklas Nordström, party friend with Linus Sköld, in Luleå. He has raged over the aviation tax imposed by the government. He has found that the flight in Luleå for Norrbotten is like local traffic and metro in Stockholm. It is crucial for the competitiveness of business. This is crucial for mobility. And there the government has drastically reduced the conditions for those living in Norrbotten. How does the honourable Member view the anti- Norrbotten policy on fuel and aviation taxes?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-732	Mr President, I would like to As Mr Beckman rightly notes, I am not born in Norrbotten. Don't hold it against me! I've come to my senses and moved 1,000 miles across the country. I think we need to be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. We need to be able to think that we should address the climate problems that exist, and we need to be able to arrange for a full and good life throughout the country – at the same time. Then you can't be as categorical as Beckman and say: One or the other. Norrbotten is not the valet of burning up, as this summer. We need to address the climate problems. Let's do it!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-735	Mr President, I would like to The 6 000 million in tax increases on fuel have been used, among other things, for subsidies for electric bicycles. In Pajala, no one has used the subsidy for electric bicycles. In Överkalix it is zero, in Haparanda it is one, in Arjeplog it is one but in Arvidsjaur it is actually seven. How does the honourable Member view the uneven geographical distribution and the northern bottoms that go to OK and tank their cars and pay 17 SEK per litre for diesel?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-737	Mr President, I would like to I am thinking that Lars Beckman has not listened to my speech. The market is not the solution to rural challenges. It is rather Lars Beckman who becomes the answer guilty. How can tax cuts and deregulation solve this so that we have access to police or broadband throughout the country?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-739	Mr President, I would like to For me, entrepreneurs are heroes who through their strength and commitment contribute to Sweden's development, their own and others' livelihoods. And all Swedish entrepreneurs are affected by our membership of the EU in one way or another. I was 25 years old when Sweden had a referendum on the EU. At that time I studied abroad but decided to go home to Sweden to get involved on the yes-side in that campaign. I was so firmly convinced that openness, international cooperation and trade are the way forward for a small country on the outskirts of northern Europe. EU membership has meant higher growth, which in turn contributes to increased prosperity and better welfare for us in Sweden. These are no insignificant advantages to ignore when the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party are now arguing for Sweden to leave the EU. Almost 25 years have passed since Sweden joined, and unfortunately protectionism is spreading. It is not just some parties here in the Swedish Parliament that are closing. Trump is also building walls and establishing tariffs, and within the EU we see countries acting in a protectionist manner. I am convinced that this is the wrong way to go. Rather, I want European cooperation to develop. Let me mention three areas that are important for the future business environment. Firstly, it concerns the internal market. Swedish trade and competitiveness depend on the internal market when we compete with countries such as China, India and the United States. However, there is still much to be done to ensure that the single market reaches its full potential. Today, goods flow very freely within the EU, but services and information are worse. The development of the growing, and for Sweden, the digital economy is particularly slow. Data flows are a prerequisite for almost all trade today, but they flow far from free within the EU. The second area I want to highlight is free trade. Europe needs to lead the development of a free trade-friendly world when the trading system is now under threat. For Sweden, which is a small and trade-dependent country, regulated trade is crucial for jobs and growth. It rests on Europe's shoulders now to take responsibility for maintaining free and fair trade and not to fall into the black holes of protectionism. When the US does less, the EU must do more for free trade in the world. My third and last area are regulatory simplifications. During the last parliamentary term, the work of the European Union was downgraded by the Social Democratic-led government. And despite the promises made by the current European Commission to reduce the number of rules, the increase has continued, albeit at a somewhat lower pace. Here the Swedish agenda must be characterised by reducing the European regulatory burden. If the overall number of rules increases, the benefits of the common regulatory framework are lost in many respects. Sweden should be the driving force for extensive work on regulatory simplification within the EU. Mr President, I would like to Abandoning European cooperation would be a national self-harming behaviour of historical proportions, at least if one values a good business climate, growth and increased prosperity in the export-dependent country Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-753	Mr President, I would like to This general political debate is a bit special because it takes place at a time when we do not yet know who will govern Sweden over the next four years. The only thing we know is that the real winner of the election – my own party, the Swedish Democrats – is the party that all other parties are trying to exclude from influence, while several of these parties' representatives seem to be open to cooperation with the real losers of the election, the Green Party. It is a party that in my constituency received only 2.76 per cent of the electorate's support – this compared to the 15.76 per cent that my own party received in the same constituency. In this speech, however, I intend not only to dwell on talking about Sweden's largest county to the surface, Norrbotten, but rather on the conditions for those who choose to live and work in Sweden's sparsely populated area – the sparsely populated area that has recently reaped the last government's dragon sowing in the form of increased fuel taxes, more expensive travel and transport, increased energy taxes, foregone infrastructure investments and reduced public service – this despite the fact that sparsely populated areas make a significant contribution to the prosperity that Sweden actually has. It is the case, Mr President, that in sparsely populated areas there are not only red cabins and picturesque environments for urban residents to make requisitioning excursions. In Swedish sparsely populated areas there are also Swedish mines, the heart of the Swedish ore and steel industry. Here are the forests that supply our pulp industry with raw materials. Here are the rivers that represent an essential part of Swedish power production. There is mountain tourism, hunting tourism, ski resorts and Sweden's only space rocket base Esrange. Not enough of that. In sparsely populated areas, sports profiles such as Charlotte Kalla, Hanna Öberg, Anja Pärson and Sofia Mattsson have been raised and developed into world champions in their respective sports. Mr President, I would like to I am so extremely grateful that there were and still are people who, despite all sorts of punitive taxes at a distance and the lack of infrastructure investments, choose to continue to live and work in sparsely populated areas. It is because the ore does not break itself, the forest does not fall apart itself and the raw materials do not transport themselves to steel mills, paper mills and ports. Someone actually has to do the work. I am also grateful that there are parents who, despite the fact that car ownership today has developed into a class issue, drive their children to practice, sometimes miles away from the village where they live – this so that we can follow new world stars in the future World Cup and Olympics. Finally, Mr President, it is with pride that I represent a party in Norrbotten whose sparsely populated policy creates the conditions for a strong and varied business sector in Sweden's sparsely populated areas. A realistic rural policy is the very basis for people to remain in all parts of the country, and this basis is best laid with Swedish democratic policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-761	Mr President, I would like to I will start from the central point in Sweden during my first four minutes here in the speaker's chair, and I mean Gotland, of course. Gotland can contribute actively to the development of Sweden and the Baltic Sea region, but a reform agenda will be required over the next four years. Let me give you a few examples. Gotland's agriculture today represents a very large production. We export 85% to the mainland, but if that is to continue to be possible, we need less regulatory hassle. Today, a dairy farmer has 620 rules to follow. That's not realistic. There is also a need for reasonable compensation for the drought that has been. In Gotland alone, the loss of drought amounts to just under 1 billion. Gotland is also one of the most active visitor points in Sweden. There are 800 000 unique visitors to Gotland every year. If it is to continue, we need good communications, but we also need both a green flight and a green ferry at reasonable prices. One of the biggest challenges for Gotland in the future is that we should have equal health care on the island. There are 58 000 inhabitants plus many residents who come to visit during the summer. With 58 000 inhabitants, a full emergency hospital is required. That is why we need to look at this island factor, to which the state must contribute in some way. If this does not happen, Gotland will in the end have to say thank you and good-bye to the medical mission. Otherwise, it won't work. Gotland can also make an active contribution to climate change. We have been appointed a pilot county by the government, and I think that is very good. But if there is to be any realism in that transition, we need a third electric cable. Last Monday we had our 15th total power outage on Gotland. We certainly do not have a standard of electricity supply that lasts. But not only do we need a third power cable– we actually need a fourth one too. We need to electrify Cementa, whose cement production is one of the largest emission points in Sweden when it comes to carbon dioxide. We also have a stone industry; for example, 70 per cent of the cement side comes from Gotland. It is perfectly possible to continue with this. Gotland can also actively contribute to the improvement and development of the Baltic Sea. The Center Party has been exercising about a blue sea billion, and it would certainly be needed. The emissions trading system that we have discussed introducing in relation to pollution really needs to be put in place. We literally live in the middle of the rubbish, as we say during the algal bloom in the summer. Finally, I would like to say that Gotland can also contribute to the continued security building that Sweden needs. The island is generally in favour of the re-establishment of the Swedish Armed Forces on Gotland. We see that it will have to be built on during this term of office, obviously in balance with the demands that are made not to disturb protection zones around the exercise fields, which may otherwise hamper Gotland otherwise. Gotland can therefore really, as the central point of the island, contribute to Sweden's development. But a reform agenda will be required, and I hope to be able to contribute with it.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-773	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I would like to highlight the need for further and more reforms to reverse the trend in public services and belief in the future that is evident in some parts of our country, particularly in rural areas. Urbanisation is a strong trend in our country; unfortunately, we are at the top of the EU. According to statistics from Boverket, it is generally the younger, preferably women, who choose to go to the metropolitan regions. It is clear that there are more opportunities for higher education, cultural experiences and diverse jobs. This is in itself a development that is positive and perhaps also a trend linked to our urban lifestyle. But at the same time, Mr President, there are many who want to stay in their home town in sparsely populated areas or come back, for example, after completing education. During the last term of office, the government was well placed to raise the issue of town and country. The conviction that the whole of Sweden should live and be needed was given greater weight in the debate. One example of valuable measures was targeted state subsidies to, for example, increased broadband expansion and country trade, but also general state grants meant a great deal to smaller municipalities, which today find it difficult to meet their statutory requirements for elderly care and school due to declining growth. I also like targeted relocation of government jobs into the country. However, it is important that this process continues during this term of office as well. I hope that the state jobs will come even more to the smaller municipalities and localities. Perhaps some tax offices and insurance funds can also come back. The symbolic value of state presence throughout the country should not be underestimated. Mr President, I would like to There is a considerable shortage of labour in the country. The situation looks the same here in Stockholm as in little Munkfors. But it is perhaps an even greater challenge to get labour into sparsely populated areas. In the past, people moved to work and housing. Today you don't just move for work and housing, you want more. This, of course, makes it more difficult to find labour in smaller towns in the country. But what concerns me a great deal today is the prospects for the basic industry, which is mainly located in the smaller parts of the country. An important issue that is being raised more and more is the supply of skills, and here is a point with my entire speech. The fact that we have historically reduced on, among other things, government jobs has made it more difficult for industry to recruit. Most often it is couples who come back, and then one may get a job at the mill while the other does not find a job. If you had a more multifaceted labour market, it would have been easier. A good public service not only provides good service and security for municipal citizens – I say it is crucial for the entire recruitment climate. In this situation, my municipality of residence, Hagfors, is right now. There is a huge, innovative steel company that is growing and flourishing, but it is extremely difficult to recruit labour. It is felt that society has gone back, and it is difficult to recruit people. Finally, Mr President, there are good opportunities for rural areas, as long as we continue to work forward.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-781	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that you must be able to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden. We also agree that the basic industry is largely crucial. The forest industry, in particular, is extremely important in Gävleborg and Värmland. That is precisely why, Mr President, Sweden must have a new government in place. Raising taxes for industry by over 30 billion does not improve the competitiveness of the forest industry or the ability to sell its products on the world market. And, Mr President, combining this with a kilometre tax, which would strike extremely hard at our Norrland and our sparsely populated areas, would be directly devastating. I would like to ask the honourable Member: in what way have these large tax increases improved the basic industry and the competitiveness of companies? In what way have tax increases of over SEK 30 billion made it easier to hire more people?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-784	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, for your question! I live and work in sparsely populated areas, and I don't share your problem picture at all. It is not at all a question of tax burden in the first place. It is precisely today that, as you have heard if you have listened to my speech, it is about getting workers. It is a question of ensuring that more people are educated and that they want to live in sparsely populated areas. It's about service and experiences. Nature and forest in all honor, but that is not enough. We can take Uddeholm, a successful steel company. It has never gone as well as it does now, even though we have had a Social Democratic-led government. I never hear the discussion about taxes, but I hear the discussion that comes with me: Mikael, how do we get the labour force back to rural areas?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-786	Mr President, I would like to With that attitude, why have you not increased taxes by 1 000 billion? Why did you only strike at EUR 30 billion if the taxes and costs are irrelevant? Why did you spend only 60 billion on households and entrepreneurship? You're so modest. Why not pick up on the 76 billion tax increases of the Left Party if taxes and costs are not significant? Everyone who knows the market economy knows, of course, that Swedish competitiveness is determined by the fact that our companies can sell products at reasonable prices.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-788	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman, if you're rescaling taxes, I can resell back and ask you a counter-question. You think all the problems in the world are solved by having no tax at all. But, Lars Beckman, welcome home to my county, and we'll look at it and talk to the companies. The tax problem is not the biggest problem today. Of course, we can't have as much taxes as we want. But the problem today is to get people to live and work in sparsely populated areas.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-789	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Dahlqvist began his speech by talking about the importance of rural areas and the importance of counteracting the urbanisation that is currently taking place in our country. I, who grew up in sparsely populated areas, would like to ask Mrs Dahlqvist how sparsely populated areas benefit from the policies of the Social Democrats. The choice was not to increase the tax on petrol, but then it was not just raised once, two or three times. Four times has the Social Democratic-led government raised it. Furthermore, it has taken the opportunity to increase the mileage tax, the diesel tax and the vehicle tax, and a flight tax has been introduced. In what way is the urbanisation that Mrs Dahlqvist is problematizing in her opening speech, when we repeatedly tax those who live and work in rural and sparsely populated areas?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-790	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Tobias Andersson! Surely there is always a limit to the level of taxation, especially in the case of fuels. But my firm conviction is that this is not the big challenge today. We must be able to deal with our environmental impacts, because it is not sustainable. At the same time, however, it is not this that makes it more difficult to recruit people to rural areas, but it is about the proximity to healthcare, good care for the elderly, good school and so on. Then we need tax revenue. I would like to put a counter-question: how is the rural areas benefited from the Swedish democrats' ambition to reduce state aid to the municipalities? Especially for small municipalities, there would be serious consequences.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-792	Mr President, I would like to I think that most people think it is reasonable that, year after year, billions are not wasted on the City of Malmö, but instead make clearer demands on Malmö. If it is not linked to the taxes that are being opposed to the process of urbanisation that Mrs Dahlqvist is talking about, then I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he supports the Green Party's proposal on box bikes as a solution to large-scale shopping. What is the honourable Member's position on such criminal taxation?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-794	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party itself has to answer for its own proposals. Nevertheless, I note that we Social Democrats have lifted a lot of reforms in the previous parliamentary term and have a lot of reforms with our electoral promises. One of the reforms that we need to pursue is increased travel deductions. But I have never seen the policy of the Swedish Democrats. I'm having trouble seeing how it's supposed to work. If you want to reduce taxes, it means less resources for rural areas.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-795	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting and clarifying debate. It is clear that we have an alliance with four alliance parties that really see and believe in the whole of Sweden and also have a policy for it. We hear one Member after another from the government bloc, i.e. the parties in the outgoing government, saying that the whole of Sweden is important. But when you ask the specific questions – is it reasonable that in Norrbotten, Värmland or elsewhere you have to pay SEK 17 per litre for the diesel? – you hear that they think prices are reasonable. Is it reasonable for routes to be phased out because of a flight tax? Members defend it. The voters are always right, Mr President. We have a term of office behind us, and the voters have evaluated the policies that have been pursued in the elections. I note that the Social Democrats in Gävleborg lost 25% of their mandates, and the Green Party lost its only mandate. In fact, the Green Party has lost all its parliamentary mandates north of Dalälven. This is probably quite fair, for Sweden has probably never had such an anti-Rural and Norrland government in modern times. There is no metro outside Stockholm, and you have to be able to live, live and run companies even outside our big cities. Punishment taxation on fuels, where the price has now passed SEK 17 per litre of diesel, is not only a criminal tax on individuals as thoughts, but also a criminal tax on companies. If you are an entrepreneur in Ljusdal, you cannot move Ljusdal, but you can move your company from Ljusdal if, for example, a kilometre tax is introduced that reduces the cost of the products you sell. The 28th of October celebrates the day of the car in Sweden, and it is a day to celebrate. The car is a fantastic symbol of freedom for Sweden, and it is important in this debate to highlight the importance of the car and mobility. At the beginning of the week, we were told that an airline is phasing out its flights from Skellefteå. The reason given by the company itself is not what a Member of Parliament from Västerbotten claimed, but the airline tax. I note that a Social Democratic councillor in Luleå has been extremely upset about the airline tax that punishes Norrbotten. It impairs Norrbotten's competitiveness and companies' ability to go out into the world and do business. Mr President, I would like to If you are to be able to live and live throughout Sweden, the infrastructure must work. It is very important that you can run companies and create jobs throughout Sweden. There must therefore be a well-functioning infrastructure. You have to be able to trust that the police will come if there is a crime. You have to be able to find skilled workers for your companies, just as we have talked about, and we must then have a functioning employment service. So the same government that has raised the fuel taxes for all of us who live outside the big cities has introduced electric bicycle subsidies of 1.7 billion, which have gone to the big cities. So wrong should not be a priority! We need a rural policy that looks at the whole. I very much hope that the incoming alliance government seriously has a holistic view of entrepreneurship and rural areas. Less than that, Sweden does not deserve it.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-803	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, for your speech. We have already had a change of line here before, but I was going to welcome Lars Beckman by raising one of his absolute favourite topics, namely that he defends the fact that foreign hauliers continue to compete out of Swedish haulage companies. The unhealthy foreign haulage industry that is not involved in paying for road wear in Sweden can continue to set lower prices and compete out Swedish haulage industry. They are not paying for the road maintenance that we need to develop. How does Lars Beckman view this – is it reasonable that the Moderates continue to hold that position? Is it not time to face the truth and say that everyone who drives on our roads should be involved in paying for it?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-805	Mr President, I would like to This shows, of course, that the honourable Member believes that the proposal for a solution, i.e. a kilometre tax, is unlikely to work. When you shock raised the diesel price by a tax increase of 1.50 it meant that you weakened the competitiveness of Swedish hauliers. It has reduced the competitiveness of Swedish hauliers and instead made it easier for foreign hauliers to refuel their trucks with cheap diesel before entering Sweden. What is criminal is, of course, to be combated. I think there is too little control along the road. I believe that there are far too few roadside checks on cabotage traffic. We fully agree on that. We all protect Swedish competitiveness. That's why your tax increases have been so damaging. You are making it worse for Swedish hauliers to compete on equal terms.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-808	Mr President, I would like to If only Lars Beckman saw the seriousness of this and also saw the importance of the competitiveness of another important industry, the forest industry, while looking at the environmental transition! The S-led government has introduced possibilities for longer and heavier vehicles. Västerbotten is the county with the largest proportion of roads that are now opened for longer and heavier vehicles: 25 per cent. In other parts of the country, for example in Småland, it is close to 0 percent that can be opened because road maintenance is badly neglected. More people have to be involved in paying.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-810	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that road maintenance is underdeveloped, we are also in complete agreement. I am concerned when I read about Gävleborg County. The Swedish Transport Administration will alert you about this: If the government does not redistribute resources to the roads, asphalt roads in Gävleborg will be converted into gravel roads. That is the truth behind the policy that Members from S are actually standing and defending. You defend a diesel price of over SEK 17 per mile, and you defend the fact that the roads in Sweden are being reduced. That is deeply regrettable, Mr President.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-812	Mr President, I would like to During the election campaign, we politicians get more direct input from our clients, the people of Sweden, than perhaps during the entire term of office. I would therefore like to share with the House the thrusts and impulses I received during the campaign by forest owners on forestry policy. Sweden has a very successful forest sector, developed for a long time in collaboration between forest owners, society representatives and the forest industry. During the 20th century we went from relatively poorly managed forests to ever higher volumes of growing trees, increasingly harvested volumes of timber and ever better conservation considerations in forestry. The main idea was to let forest owners manage their forests with freedom under responsibility. The present law, from 1993, was supplemented. Conservation, which was also included in the previous law, was now given the same importance as timber production. But the interpretations of what equal importance is are increasingly disparate. One interpretation is this: For decades, a Swedish model of forest management based on nature conservation and forest management was developed mainly on the same land. We don't clean out unusual tree species. When felling, we leave isolated and groups of trees behind. We try to avoid deep wheel tracks and more. We know from various inventories that this work with everyday considerations has been and is successful. The second interpretation of the law's equal importance for forest management and conservation means that Sweden's forests are simply thought to be divided into managed forests, which threaten nature, and fully protected forests, which are good for nature. It is that interpretation, translated into practice, which has upset many forest owners on a daily basis and not least during the election campaign. Let's think of a forest-owning family! A forest that Grandpa may have planted in the 1920s may have been managed by three four generations before it is time for final felling. When the family submits a logging notification after 90 years of management, the Swedish Forest Board informs that the stock is now defined as a key biotope, which makes felling impossible. In practice, there is a ban on logging after 90 years of work. I am not going to go into the various grounds and forms that can lead to the stopping of the effects. Instead, I would like to draw the House's attention to what is happening with the motivation for long-term forest management after an experience such as the one I have described. Such a forest owner will not in future be willing to invest in grubbing-up, first-galling or other management. Even his neighbors and acquaintances will be affected. They have already been affected around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The forestry sector, one of our most important industries, depends on forest owners believing in the right to enjoy the fruits of their investments, even decades after they have been made. The same confidence forms the basis for forest companies' investments in new factories, workplaces and export earnings for Sweden. Ronald Reagan once said: Do you know what the Nine Most Terrifying words in the English language are? They are: I 中 m from the government, and Transferred to today's topic, it could be: Which are the most frightening words in the Swedish language? They are: I am from the Forest Board. I'm here to look at your forest. It's not supposed to be like that. The Board of Forestry, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards consist of officials. I assume that they work to comply with laws, as well as the intentions of the Riksdag and the Government. That is why we are responsible. During this term of office, I hope that we will work together to save the Swedish model, with forest management and care in the same place, and forest owners' confidence in the model, so that they continue to run forestry at the same high level as hitherto. In our time, when we want to reduce the use of fossil-based materials and fossil fuels, active foresters play a key role. They need our support.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-824	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that, in fact, one can well say that industry goes like a train. But perhaps it is a comparison that can be called into question. We Social Democrats ensure that we have a good business environment in the country. New businesses are being set up. Companies are growing. They hire more people and export their goods and services. In this way, we create more jobs, confidence in the future and a more secure country. This is also why the S-led government during the last term of office created the conditions for a strengthened business sector through increased exports, more growing companies and investments in the digitalization and innovation of the future – these are some examples. More than 300 000 more people have jobs to go to today than in 2014. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 15 years. Moreover, we have the highest employment ever measured in an EU country. A small country like Sweden is dependent on exports. Therefore, exports have a central and crucial role to play in creating more jobs and securing Swedish welfare. Today, around 1.4 million people in Sweden have a job to go to thanks to exports. We note that exports developed recordably during the last parliamentary term. In 2017, exports increased for the first time throughout the 2000s in all counties of Sweden. Last year, Swedish goods exports also increased by as much as 10 per cent from the previous year. Now we are at levels that have never been achieved before. Exports are growing better than in many comparable countries, especially for services. Inflows of foreign investment have recovered. And more Swedish companies choose to move their production back to Sweden, which is very positive. It is the same when we look at tourism, which increased by 7.4 per cent compared to 2016. This is the strongest increase since 2006. Tourism is growing in line with the Swedish economy as a whole. These are also encouraging figures. And we're getting reports that the industry is breaking records. Output in manufacturing grew by 5.7 per cent in the June survey compared with one year earlier. Clearly, there is concern that developments cannot continue. It may, of course, have to do with which government is sitting. But it also has to do with Brexit, trade, customs and trade wars. Continued positive labour market developments will require additional measures to equip job seekers with the skills required by employers. There is a large and growing shortage of workers with the right training or skills in many professions. Today there are about 120 000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market that cannot be filled at the same time as 350 000 are unemployed. Here we have a great challenge to take on. The solution to this challenge is not to reduce wages and increase insecurity. Instead, we need to strengthen the security of the labour market. We Social Democrats are fully convinced that the Swedish model of strong social partners is a key to a flexible and at the same time secure labour market. Let us not lose sight of what served this country so well and which is, to a great extent, also a model for the labour market of the future!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-834	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for a committed post! Of course, we agree on the needs and importance of companies. I would, of course, have liked the Social Democrats to have had a policy for this. In a boom, when things are going very well in the world, it goes without saying that our companies are selling products, goods and services. But it is in the coming recession that politics will be tested. I would like to ask questions to Mattias Jonsson. If politics is as brilliant as it was expressed in the speech, why is it only 12% of Swedish companies have confidence in the Prime Minister? It is 79 per cent who have confidence in Ulf Kristersson and the politics that the Moderates are in. That is one question. The second question is: In what way has 30 000 million in increased taxation of Swedish entrepreneurship strengthened the competitiveness of Swedish companies? How does your tax shock facilitate the competitiveness of Swedish companies in the world?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-838	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Beckman for the questions. Reality contradicts Lars Beckman's description. We have had four successful years in government power when unemployment has gone down, welfare has been strengthened and 100 000 more employed in welfare. In this way, we have made the country stick together. We want to continue with the development we have begun. I am very concerned about a tax-merger policy that increases the gap, pulls the country apart and does not create more jobs, opportunities and confidence in the future. Nor do I see the negative trend in tax increases that Lars Beckman has repeatedly described in the speaker's chair. It's the other way around. What companies are today asking for is skills so that they can remain competitive. Then we need to invest in more education and more teachers. It costs money, but it also meets the needs of businesses.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-842	Mr President, I would like to There are two target groups that are dissatisfied with Arbetsförmedlingen. It is the companies that do not find labour, and it is the job seekers who do not get help. I have now heard several S-members say that it is the biggest social problem in Sweden, and then the natural question becomes: What does the Social Democratic Government intend to do to improve the matching of the Employment Service, if that is the biggest problem? I myself claim that it is the 66 billion in increased taxes. But based on your rhetoric, what are you going to do about Arbetsförmedlingen?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-844	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Moderates, we do not have the proposal to close the Employment Service, because we believe that it serves the labour market well. On the other hand, there is a need to develop matching and contact with employers. It is a job that the Public Employment Service is in right now, and I think it is necessary. As I said earlier, it is also necessary to continue investing in education. Lower wages and taxes do not create more jobs.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-846	Mr President, I would like to According to Mattias Jonsson's speech, the government has gone from clarity to clarity, and there are no problems or challenges whatsoever. The truth is, we have both joys and some problems ahead of us. Two out of three entrepreneurs feel that it has become more difficult to start and run a business in the last four years. Let us take this with competitiveness and conditions. A fundamental problem is that decision-making in Sweden often takes a long time. It has been noticed in our common hometown on the important issue of self-driving cars. It has taken several years to develop a regulatory framework that allows you to research and have them in traffic – and then it is not even legal to use such a car if you buy it once it enters the market. This also applies to the port problems in Gothenburg, where it has taken years, despite the fact that industry is being punished. Is Mattias Jonsson prepared to help solve the port issue in Gothenburg as soon as possible?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-849	Mr President, I would like to Lars Helmered and I come from the same city, and we probably share a lot of the problem description. However, I do not share the view that the government has been slow in the port conflict. An investigation was quickly launched, and now the social partners have shown that they want to present a solution, which I believe is sustainable in the future, which is very good. I wonder how Lars Helmered views himself to the solution that is presented. However, I am concerned that I do not find any investment in Moderates' budget at the electromobility lab in Gothenburg. The government spends 1 billion from this year to 2028 – if business goes in with the same amount of money. I can't find anything in the Moderate budget. What happens to this initiative, which is so important for Gothenburg, for the automotive industry and for Sweden?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-851	Mr President, I would like to I can give you a straight answer. The Moderates will, of course, pursue the investment in the important electromobility lab. In the election, the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board in Gothenburg tried to lay out fog curtains that there was uncertainty, but it does not exist. Let me return to the important port issue. There is a ready-made proposal on the government table waiting to be consulted. We support the parties' proposals if nothing important emerges during the consultation round. Now the ball is on the Social Democratic Minister's lap when it comes to getting the proposal out for a referral so that the problem can be resolved as soon as possible.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-853	Mr President, I would like to I hope that the minister responsible will continue in the next government so that a proposal can be put on the table of Parliament and we can make the necessary decisions and get the labour market in order. However, I have noted that there has been an urge from the bourgeois side to go forward with restrictions on labour law, but that is something we will not propose or put on Parliament's table.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-855	Mr President, I would like to Let me congratulate Mr President on his post; it feels safe. Ownership is, as we all know, protected under Chapter 2 of Government. Paragraph 15, but it does not currently have the same strong protection as certain other rights and freedoms, since the limitation and suspension rules do not apply to ownership. Ownership may be restricted only in order to satisfy urgent public interests. What, then, are urgent public interests? Is it, for example, when a farmer is forced to give up a larger part of his farmland in order for other companies to establish themselves on it? This is a phenomenon that we are now seeing in Norrköping, for example, where a company is sacrificed to make room for several. The form of government states that those who are forced to give up their property by expropriation or otherwise shall receive full compensation. This, Mr President, should always happen when the public places a dead hand over the ownership, the right of disposal or the means of use of the individual. During the previous term of office, I have heard ministers in this House say that compensation is paid if we can. Mr President, I would like to Ownership and use of land and forests are extremely long-term investments. Nowhere else in society do we see such long depreciation times. Apart from economic investment, it's about managing cultural values, using natural resources, food production and biodiversity – and perhaps it's the most important piece in the transition to a sustainable society through the production of biofuels. It's not a floskel to say, what you own, you care for. This requires a long-term approach and rules of play that allow for future planning for generations. Today's users experience more and more eroded protection for individual ownership. Many feel that restrictions have increased on what a landowner can do with his land. Mr President, I would like to Just the thought and feeling of this will cause individuals to step back, and the anxiety will grow with uncertainty in unclear rules of play. This leads to less maintenance of cultural buildings, less long-term efforts on arable land and less forest management. This, in turn, leads to reduced revenue and, in the long run, less money into the state apparatus. Examples of restrictions include reserve formations, Natura 2000 sites, cultural reserves, biotop protection, beach protection, key biotopes, species protection regulation, green infrastructure and exploitation for various settlements. Many times there are good reasons for the restrictions, and full compensation is paid in the case of certain interventions but not always. In my opinion, it should always happen. It is also important that good communication takes place with owners and users so that acceptance can be achieved as the restriction often takes place on property with great emotional values but also so that the user can plan for a rescheduling of his production. Other threats to property rights are when the public is given the opportunity to appeal against individual forest owners' forestry decisions under the Aarhus Convention's rules of appeal. There is also a great deal of uncertainty among government officials, and these officials can interpret rules and make demands that are not always compatible with the law. That is why, Mr President, I look forward with great confidence to reinstated civil servants' responsibilities. Mr President, I would like to It is high time that an investigation was set up to investigate property rights and how we strengthen it. Individuals should not have to feel threats and concerns about their ownership and use but feel that long-term rules of play exist. In this way we build a strong countryside and give the green industries the opportunity to be both engine and core of Swedish welfare.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-867	Mr President, I would like to Today, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight rural areas – rural areas that, with their inhabitants and resources, are an important part of Sweden's development and prosperity. Sweden's development went in many ways in the right direction during the previous term of office. The government turned budget deficits into budget surpluses and increased investment in welfare and rural areas. We have moved out government agencies and expanded the investment in government service offices in places where the state has not previously existed. At my home in Västernorrland it meant that Sundsvall, Sollefteå and Kramfors got new jobs and an improved service for the residents. Here the government really showed that it sees the whole country and that it takes advantage of the skills and knowledge that exist outside the big cities. We have invested billions in rural areas through support for broadband, training places, increased entrepreneurship, road investments and local grocery stores. The investments in local shops have made it possible for them to remain in many rural and sparsely populated areas of the country. In Västernorrland we have two of these shops in Ånge kommun, one in Östavall and one at Överturingen. Social-democratic policies are useful all the way to the country trade. We need more people and businesses living and operating in rural areas. But it must also be possible to buy food within reasonable distances. The local store is important for us to manage to get more people to discover what quality of life you can get in Östavall, on Överturingen or in one of the country's other rural towns. The goods on store shelves are also an important part of the development. We want Swedish food production to increase. It provides jobs in rural areas, while strengthening sustainable development and producing good quality food with high environmental and animal welfare requirements. In broad collaboration, a long-term food strategy was developed for increased Swedish food production. This is a good and important strategy that we are now going to implement. But for Swedish farmers to be able to compete, a strong society is needed. Cheating and mislabelling of food should be suppressed. We want high standards of food that we give our children in school and our elderly in care for the elderly. It should be easy for us consumers to be active and choose the right way. Information on food content, nutritional value, environmental impact and origin must be improved and expanded. We have begun the journey towards increasing self-sufficiency. Food production shall be provided with the means to increase throughout the country, while achieving relevant national environmental objectives and the global sustainable development objectives. We are looking forward to innovative and sustainable food production that is digital, flexible, resource efficient and environmentally friendly. Madam President, I would like To do this, we need a broad-based and long-term rural policy. We need investment rather than tax cuts. It creates a stronger countryside for a safer Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-875	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that you should be able to live and live throughout Sweden and that you should feel safe throughout Sweden. There are probably many of us who have learned two new words that we could not before, at least I wasn't familiar with them. One is the birth of a car and the other is the birth of a ditch. These are words that we have been taught, unfortunately, because of BB in Sollefteå. And I can understand that the honourable Member Malin Larsson thinks it is important to have good roads, because it is of course important that the car with a woman who will give birth at the nearest BB ten miles away arrive. I would like to ask whether the honourable Member considers it important from a regional point of view that there is proximity to maternity care and safety for women who are going to give birth.
i-S5fYbBjAS52r9gaCPPoybU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question! I've given birth to two children myself. It is obvious that it is important that we have good and good delivery care throughout the country, and I can assure you that we have in Västernorrland.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-879	Madam President, I would like No, I am not sure that the women who have given birth in ditches on the way from Sollefteå agree with the honourable Member. I'm not sure that all the women in Norrbotten who have a picture exhibition – I don't know if it's in Gällivare or in Kiruna – who are dealing with women who have given birth in cars agree. If the honourable Member thinks this is important, I would like to know what policy the Social Democrats have for this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-881	Madam President, I would like We have a policy that benefits the whole country. Investment in health care is extremely important there. We will have good care throughout the country, there will be ambulance helicopters also in sparsely populated areas and so on. On the other hand, we are not going to solve this with tax cuts, which Beckman often advocates, as I have heard here today. Promising efforts have been made in Sollefteå with midwives who accompany the women who are about to give birth. Otherwise, I can inform you that most births in the car take place for those who live centrally.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-884	Madam President, I would like On 1 July 2000, the Öresund Bridge opened. It was a fantastic project that connected Sweden with a large labour market region. This link quickly became a regional link instead of the long-distance freight transport route that the original idea was. Integration that followed created a strong growth region and now counts as one of the most important and dynamic regions in northern Europe. A joint focus on removing border barriers and making the impossible possible was one of the success concepts. In Sweden we now have a government that instead builds barriers for our Swedish entrepreneurs. Out of 92 initiatives taken by the government in key corporate policy areas, 53 have harmed the business sector and thus Sweden. The government's increased taxes are hitting hard on jobs, growth and entrepreneurship. The regulatory burden on companies has continued to grow. Entrepreneurs feel that compliance with state rules has become increasingly difficult, and the business environment has consistently deteriorated during the last term of office. Small business is declining for the first time since 2013, and this is really worrying because four out of five jobs are created precisely by small businesses. Fortunately, however, the Swedish people understood how damaging this social democratic government was. Despite the fact that a recession is now approaching, the hope for the innovative veins of our small businesses finally sprouts. Creating labour market regions by building enabling infrastructure is an example of the Öresund Bridge. By not hesitationing, but instead showing courage in efforts forward on more double-track rail and in renovating existing rail, we are making it easier for employers and future workers to create meaningful values together. In 2012, 27 000 people commuted across the border to Norway. There are 11,000 more people than those who commute to Denmark. Given that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world with a good growth rate and a good school system and is one of our largest export countries, there are very good arguments for building the Oslo region together with the Fyrhyr region and the Gothenburg region in order to create a labour market region with unimagined strengths. And given that every year there are 14 million journeys across Svinesund – every day there are 2 500 trucks with long-distance goods – it is also not difficult to justify from an environmental point of view. But the greatest gain is the jobs that could be made possible, the power that comes with growth and the welfare that could be taken advantage of. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to say that Sweden needs a new government – a government that understands the value of letting go of the power of enterprise.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-892	Madam President, I would like I think something's happening. I don't think it's a hoax. There's a change. These words uttered the President of the United States of America today – the man who has denied any trace of climate change, until now. The consensus that this is happening now, that it depends on us and that it needs to be changed immediately prevails in the overall scientific community. So what do we do now, Madam President? A conversion has begun. If we are going to continue to relate to the big country in the West, we can say that Tesla has now changed both Audi and Mercedes in sales figures. That car-interested Americans choose to gas their batteries instead of petrol is only a sign of time. In Sweden we have a huge opportunity to be the leader in this transition. We have the research, we have the technology and we have the minerals. This means that the conditions for the mining industry are improved, that the industry is not seen as a special interest and that understanding of the need for mines is increased. But I also think that we are faced with a choice of ways when it comes to the creation of mines or the expansion of existing ones. What society do we want, and what societies do we think the rest of the world's population wants? Minerals are used in all kinds of areas today. It is from what is clear to us through technical equipment to vehicles and to makeup. If we want to stop starting a new break, we must also stop much of what we are taking today for granted – yes, almost everything. Recycling is, of course, important, and there we are once again a pioneer country in Sweden. But much of the metal we extract will not be able to recycle until many decades, which in itself is of course good. Building foundations should last longer than today's mobile phones, for example. Madam President, I would like So it's a matter of choice. Should we continue to use mobile phones, washing machines and the internet? If so, where are we going to take the minerals? From conflict cores, where working conditions are bad to say the least or where environmental legislation is hardly in the glossary? Or from a place where employees have the opportunity to start and join free trade unions, where they are compensated for their work with reasonable remuneration and where the environmental impact cannot be ignored, but where it is significantly less in relation to their competitors? I know what I am answering these questions, Madam President. We have the choice to make for us, but also for the rest of the world. If we feel that we need and want the technical equipment that requires new mineral inputs, how can we deny others the same? Isn't that a little contradictory? And if we can see that the climate impact from extraction is less in a country like Sweden and a county like Norrbotten, should we not also take our global responsibility and extract more here, not less? If the extraction of metals is combined with recycling, we can achieve a sustainable transition, which we desperately need. I think that Sweden should take the lead shirt in the climate match, and I believe that we can do so through wise investments in education, industry and industry.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-902	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment to the environment! It is good that the Social Democrats also have this commitment. For those who want to drive diesel today, I recommend that you remember HVO diesel from Norrsundet in Gävleborg County, because then you drive completely fossil-free. Then you don't have to feel guilty either for the environment or for anything else. What I am curious about is: In what way will the competitiveness of the Norrbotten companies be improved by the mileage tax on heavy traffic that the Social Democrats have announced? And in what way has the competitiveness of the Norrbotten companies improved through the 30 billion tax increases that the current government has implemented? And in what way is the competitiveness of the Norrbotten companies improved by the 76 billion tax increases that the Left Party wants to carry out this term of office?
i-3tKP2Wyqp7tm5E1mMG3KN9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question! I would like to say this: There is much that the Swedish Government has done during the last term of office for companies, both in Norrbotten and in the rest of Sweden. If we are now to stick to the mining industry, as I was talking about, we can see that increased investment in infrastructure, for example, is not something that comes from tax cuts but from having government finances in balance. Then we have the opportunity to invest in infrastructure but also in education, which is extremely important for companies in both Norrbotten and the rest of the country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-907	Madam President, I would like As a former Norwegian resident, I know that it is long distances and that products should be shipped to Norrbotten and from Norrbotten. My question was: How does it improve the competitiveness of companies in Norrbotten if you introduce a kilometre tax on transport? Generally speaking, the targeted tax shock has hit the companies in Norrbotten very hard. So my question was: how does this improve the competitiveness of companies?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-909	Madam President, I would like We will be shipping products from Norrbotten, and this is made possible with, for example, Norrbotniabanan and increased investments in Malmbanan. We will also have the opportunity to live and live in Norrbotten. As has been said in previous speeches here during the day and during the general political debate, it is important for Norrbotten that there is a climate that makes us retain the Gulf Stream, for example. This can be important if we are to stay and work in Norrbotten as well as in the rest of the country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-911	Madam President, I would like The story of Sweden is a double story. It is a story where a lot is good and where there are great opportunities. But it is also a story of great problems and challenges. Let me take Gothenburg, where I come from, as an example. Gothenburg has one of the world's best automotive industries. It is an industry that is not just about large companies such as AB Volvo and Volvo Cars. SMEs are at least as important components. It is subcontractors that do everything from subcontracting to advanced research and development but also start-up companies with groundbreaking innovations, small companies that address global challenges and small companies, some of which will one day be our next big companies. But if you talk to all the people who go to work in Lundby, Lindholmen or Torslanda every day, you realize that it could have gone even better and that Gothenburg and Sweden, which are good after all, also have big problems and challenges. There are problems with regulatory problems, poor tax systems and growing gaps. Just a few kilometres from the cool offices on Lindholmen is Biskopsgården, which is characterized by alienation, insecurity and gang crime. Those most affected are those who live and work in these areas. I have spoken to traders in Bishopsgården who say that the turnover goes down if there is no uniformed police in place outside. Much is going well in Sweden, but a lot would also need to be improved. When it comes to Swedish competitiveness, there is no contradiction between entrepreneurship on Lindholmen and in Biskopsgården – vice versa. To reduce exclusion and insecurity, we need to get more people to work and make more people feel part of society. There, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are important tools. Therefore, it must be easier to run companies, whether it is Volvo or the pizzeria around the corner. We Moderates want to implement regulatory simplifications to make it easier to start up and run businesses. Provision of information should be facilitated for companies to authorities through the "One Door" concept and a longer time limit for dealing with cases with public authorities should be introduced. We Moderates also want to see a tax reform that includes facilitating companies' capital supply and investment and generational changes in companies. We say that companies should be appreciated more and taxed less. It's both right and fair. But we must also strengthen the police and the rule of law. Security is a prerequisite for setting up and running businesses. That is why we want to see more police officers, higher police salaries and stricter penalties for gang criminals. Madam President, I would like The story of Sweden and Gothenburg is a double story. It's a story where a lot is good, but it's also a story about everything that needs to get better. Therefore, a new government under moderate leadership is needed.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-922	Madam President, I would like 153 billion – so many kilometres the Swedish travelers travelled together in 2017. During the same time, 108 billion tonne-kilometres, i.e. goods, have been transported through Sweden. For this, roads, railways, aviation and shipping were used. However, the majority have been on the road and rail. Neither cyclists nor bicycle transport are included in this. So many billions of transport kilometres place high demands on infrastructure. At the same time, these transport opportunities are extremely important for Sweden's development. With an expanded infrastructure, we create larger labour market regions, which in turn give companies better opportunities to recruit staff, opportunities to grow and to reach new markets. Such a development favours employees in the Swedish labour market, and it gives employees greater freedom and better opportunities for career development. Madam President, I would like I am not going to underscore the fact that this gives us Social Democrats the opportunity to use growth to create a more equal, solidarity-based and fair society, rather than the tax cuts that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats in particular advocate. That is why we invested in rural areas, among other things, during the last parliamentary term. We invested in railway maintenance, in better public transport and in road maintenance. It contributes to a more hopeful society, and it contributes to a more fair, solidarity-based and equal society. That is our core, and that is where we Social Democrats stand firmly. Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, we also decided on the national plan. It contains EUR 622 billion for infrastructure investments. That is 100 billion more than the then alliance government was able to achieve. We have also implemented some sixty different reforms in the area of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Unfortunately, I have only one minute left of my speaking time, so I do not have time to mention all of them. But let me mention a few: squeezing, fines, alco-boms in ports, 74-tonne trucks, greatly increased railway maintenance and historic decisions on new railway initiatives in Sweden, including in Norrland. I'll be glad to hear that. In fact, a Social Democratic Minister of Infrastructure was required to row ashore a cycle, a flight and a good strategy. We Social Democrats do not fear challenges to create larger labour market regions in Norrland, to connect our three major cities and to have a vibrant countryside. We are not afraid, but we are prepared to accept that challenge.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-928	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jasenko, for an interesting speech. The previous government has invested heavily in Swedish rural areas, we were told. That's a little strange. I will spontaneously think of, for example, strong tax increases on petrol and diesel, which are perhaps the most important thing left behind by the Red-Green Government. Then I am a little curious about how Jasenko Omanovic thinks it has strengthened Swedish countryside, i.e. that it has made it more expensive to transport goods and more expensive for people to travel to and from work. I am also curious to know how Mr Jasenko is discussing the kilometre tax that the Red Green Government, unfortunately, did not have time to introduce, but has promised to introduce if you come to power again. How does Jasenko Omanovic believe that these tax increases benefit Swedish rural areas?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-931	Madam President, I would like I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for the questions. They're really important questions. We have increased the diesel tax by 17 cents. It is not as anyone claimed in this House that it was a 1⁄2 crown. The world market price and the krona's weak position are making petrol and diesel prices high. But we have increased the tax by only 16 - 17 cents. Let us compare with the government of Reinfeldt. They raised the tax twice with 50 cents. It evens out. This demonstrates the need to find renewable alternatives. We need cars and trucks in the countryside, but they don't have to go on diesel.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-934	Madam President, I would like The truth is that this government has introduced an automatic overindexation of petrol and diesel taxes. With a continued government led by Stefan Löfven, taxes will increase more than inflation each year. That is the reform introduced by this government. Then we also want to introduce a kilometre tax. I did not understand that I received a reply from Mr Jasenko, but I take it that you will continue, if you have renewed confidence in the House, to move forward with a kilometre tax, which hardly benefits Swedish rural areas.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-936	Madam President, I would like I recently asked representatives of the forest industry what they think about unreported shock raising by 50 øre per litre, as the Reinfeldt government did. You can actually plan and give the conditions that are known to the companies: This is how it will be. It is never possible to plan what will happen to the world market price. But the treasure can be planned. This could not be done during Reinfeldt's time. That's when shock was raised.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-939	Madam President, I would like Digitisation and artificial intelligence are the industrial revolution of our time that fundamentally changes society. It is an opportunity and a necessity for jobs, growth and competitiveness. The digital infrastructure is becoming increasingly important for our society. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government has not taken these challenges seriously. International comparisons show that Sweden falls and risks being re-run as an IT nation. If companies and jobs are to emerge here, Sweden needs to change the pace. Therefore, the Moderates have presented a reform agenda for how Sweden will become a digital pioneer country. Our agenda is about a national leadership that can drive and coordinate digitalisation work, clear and measurable goals where Sweden will once again become a world leader and concrete reforms for jobs, growth and competence development. The infrastructure to enable this is about several things. It's about physical infrastructure like expanding fiber for basic connectivity. Unfortunately, the Swedish National Audit Office shows that the government's contribution has gone as soon as possible to areas where the market could have solved the expansion, while other areas that needed the help were left in the lurch, not least in rural areas. We also need to expand the next generation Internet, 5G. Both self-driving cars and new care services will depend on safe connectivity and fast speeds. Sweden must push for a common European infrastructure for 5G that enables what we call the Internet of Things. A global digital economy requires infrastructure even in the broader sense of the word with a good business environment that can attract investments and companies to Sweden. Unfortunately, we see how this government has raised taxes by 60 billion. Small enterprise is declining for the first time since 2013 – in a boom. In addition, only 4% of Europe's AI companies are based in the Nordic countries. The Moderates want to make absolutely necessary tax cuts on labour but also make it easier to create test beds for new technologies in defined locations, require authorities to share open data to enable the data-driven economy and new services, and review laws and rules to enable the digital economy, such as the sharing or platform economy, which has had an impact in the field of transport. Recently we saw how the Tiptapp app, where people can help each other bring garbage to recycling, was about to be banned here in Stockholm because it did not fit into existing regulations. New services should not be a reason to escape tax or rules, but outdated legislation should not hinder new services, jobs, growth and innovation. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a government that sees the challenges and opportunities of digitalisation and artificial intelligence, which takes the expansion of digital infrastructure seriously but also, as the Moderates, stands ready with a powerful agenda to get in place both infrastructure and regulations to promote businesses and jobs. We want to make Sweden a digital pioneer so that growth and jobs are created here. That is why Sweden needs a new government, Madam President.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-949	Madam President, I would like Here we are not as disagreeable as we were in the last line shift. We too believe that these are extremely important issues. I was thinking, because it was unclear what Jessica Rosencrantz meant. After all, we had clearer objectives in terms of broadband roll-out. The Alliance government had a target of 90 percent and the market would decide, which led to large parts of the sparsely populated area being left out. Now we have a new objective that the government has set itself. Therefore, it is interesting to know: Are the Moderates up to the new goal?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-952	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jasenko, for the question. Absolutely – we fully support that objective, and it is good that we can agree that we want everyone to have access to basic connectivity. Then all that remains to be done is to ensure that this happens. As I said, the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office has shown, for example, that the grants that exist – which is good – and are paid out under the rural programme have unfortunately gone to areas where the market itself could have expanded. That is a problem, and I believe that the government that has ruled should actually examine itself. The government that is taking office should have a better regulatory framework in place. To those who live in rural areas where the market does not expand, contributions should go from the public so that we ensure that everyone gets access to the basic connectivity that is increasingly necessary for those who want to benefit from various public services.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-954	Madam President, I would like I think it is a good thing that you are setting the targets. The market has shown no interest in the past. Now the metropolitan areas are probably a fairly saturated market, but needs remain and you move on. Access to broadband is basically a democratic issue for the citizens living in sparsely populated areas, which is why it is extremely important.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-956	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Jasenko that it is very important to ensure that the whole country has access to digital infrastructure. As I said in my speech, in this context it is important to take height both for the basic connection and at the same time to prepare for what is around the corner. Today, we need to ensure that people can get out on the internet; in the future, it is about how self-driving cars, refrigerators, businesses and jobs will be completely dependent on fast speeds.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-958	Madam President, I would like This morning when I turned on the TV, the first thing I saw was that the railway was standing still in Skåne. It was just as bad when I was going up to Stockholm last time. Then there were several errors at the same time. I was lucky and jumped on a delayed, earlier train. Yet I arrived an hour and a half after the time I would have arrived on my later train – provided it was on time. There is much to be said about the railways, but I wanted to leave it to the report later and move on to something more positive. Madam President, I would like For a long time, the previously strong Swedish merchant fleet has decreased drastically from 254 vessels to 89, this between 2001 and 2016. In 2017, however, it turned around. For the first time in a long time several ships were flagged into Sweden. This trend break is the result of an improvement in the conditions for Swedish shipping. It is of the utmost importance that we in the Riksdag continue to stimulate Swedish maritime growth so that more ships fall under the Swedish flag. Sweden is well placed to build a competitive and sustainable shipping. The Swedish flag has good societal effects in terms of sustainable and climate-smart transport, more jobs and increased growth. Madam President, I would like From 16 December 2014, it has been possible to build and equip inland waterway vessels that can be operated on the Göta River, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren. What worries me is that traffic hasn't started. With inland navigation, 50 000 truck transport can instead go by ship. It is not only better for the environment but also for road safety. A barge is twelve times safer calculated per tonne-kilometre. Inland shipping, with a market share of 20%, would thus reduce the number of deaths in truck-related accidents by about 15 people each year. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Maritime Administration proposes to increase the pilot fee by 5 per cent and the fairway fee by 1.9 per cent in 2019. During 2017 and 2018, the fees were increased by approximately SEK 215 million. It is not only tolls that worry, but also locks that need to be replaced in order to enable inland waterway shipping. We don't have time to wait to replace these. They should already be replaced, so it's time we put the shovel on the ground now! Madam President, I would like Imagine having a real coastal shipping service that runs on Sweden's long coast and like a bus enters the ports and collects goods! It would relieve both roads and railways. The problem is the fairway charges. It's too expensive to enter the ports. There must be a lot of goods in the ports in order for it to be profitable to enter at all, resulting in more truck transport. The Swedish democrats will continue to work hard to get more Swedish ships and give the shipping flow.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-966	Madam President, I would like In 1880 the track between Borås and Varberg was completed. This railway track made it possible to transport freight and passenger trains in a completely new age. Today, 138 years later, the course is equally important. It enables people to live and live along the track but maybe work somewhere else. For the Sjuhärad district, the railway is important to enable housing and jobs throughout the area. We have the Western Main Line with stops in Vårgårda and Herrljunga. We have the coast-to-coastal track from Gothenburg via Bollebygd, Borås and Limmared and further down to Kalmar. We have Älvsborgsbanan from Borås via Herrljunga and up to Uddevalla, and we have Vidårsbanan from Borås via Kinna, Ske ne and Björketorp and further down towards Varberg. All these paths are important and need to be invested in to ensure good connections throughout Sjuhärad. To travel by train between Borås and Gothenburg takes over an hour. For many years many actors have been pointing out the value of having a good rail system that can open up larger commuting and labour market regions than we have today. A new first stage with railway between Gothenburg and Borås with stops in Landvetter is necessary to connect Västra Götaland County's largest cities. But of course the entire Sjuhärad district benefits from a good railway between Borås and Gothenburg. In order to enable people to take the train to work or to enjoy, we also need to have good roads. So we need to think the whole trip – from leaving home to putting the car on the commuter parking lot, at work or at the grocery store. Good roads also enable companies to develop throughout the country. In my municipality of residence Mark municipality, in a town called Öxnevalla, there is a company in the wood industry that has had to fight the Swedish Transport Administration since the road through Öxnevalla has been classified as so-called BK2. Large heavy transports should not be able to drive on this road. The road is also run daily by large agricultural machinery and forest transport. This rural enterprise has had to struggle and work hard to obtain an exemption in order to drive on the road. After many trips back and forth, the exemption was finally granted, but soon a new exemption application may have to be submitted. It is regrettable that this company should have to fight against authorities and perhaps for its entire existence rather than doing what you are good at – doing wood. What is also important for Sjuhäradsbygden is the proximity to Gothenburg and above all to Landvetter airport and Gothenburg harbour. Both are important for the infrastructure of Sjuhärad, both for trips to the continent and into the world and for the transport of goods by sea. In order to have viable businesses in rural and urban areas and for people to live throughout our country, IT, fibre and broadband are a vital part. For the Sjuhärad district, fiber expansion has taken off for several years. Many localities have formed fibre associations, whose commitment and drive contributed to the locality receiving fibre. Furthermore, Madam President, the copper grid has been cut down in many parts of Sjuhärad. It refers to getting by with the mobile network. In Mossebo, Tranemo municipality, cell phone coverage is so bad that you can only talk if you stand with your phone in a particular location and place. This causes problems for the local community, for example, which organises activities and meetings each year. The market is good at expanding mobile services across the country, but in places where the market has not yet arrived, social masters could be a complement to the market. Madam President, I would like Infrastructure is something that engages people in all parts of the country. With strategic investments in all parts of the infrastructure, we build the country stronger. It is when people have confidence in society and authorities that development progresses. With innovations and new technical solutions, we develop the country together – public, business and civil society.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-976	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country. We have mountains, sea, countryside, vast forests and beautiful villages and cities. Sweden is Europe's fifth largest country on the surface, but we are only 14th in terms of population. This means that we have a small population to finance the infrastructure that we need to develop our beautiful country. This is a challenge, as we have a great need to improve our infrastructure if we are to take advantage of the conditions that exist in our country. In addition to having a small population on a large area, the Nordic population is gathered in different population areas. The largest part of the Nordic population is located between Copenhagen and Oslo. In the Skagerrak and Kattegat regions, more than 7 million people live. The next area is the Stockholm, Helsinki and Tallinn regions. Also in this part of the Nordic and northern Baltic countries, there are about 7 million people. In addition to these urban regions, we have an important area that connects Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. Although this part of the Nordic region is not as populous, large parts of the Nordic region's well-being come from its mines, hydropower and forest industry. Madam President, I would like If Sweden and the Nordic region are to continue to be one of the world's most successful areas, we must link these different population centres together. Research is today talking about the mega-cities of the future. We are in a position to create two such areas in the Nordic countries, but this requires that we build modern roads and railways that connect these regions within and across national borders. Madam President, I would like In the book of Proverbs there is a small sentence that in some translations reads: In the late 1800s and early 1900s we in Sweden had a vision of building a new Sweden. This national vision was partly about the church's classical values of justice and solidarity, but it was also a vision of purely physical construction. New railways, roads, ports and residential areas emerged as an effect of this dream. Today we need a new vision, a vision that captures the Nordic and Baltic countries. If, like our ancestors, we start building new paths between Copenhagen, Malmö, Gothenburg and Oslo, between Copenhagen, Jönköping and Stockholm, between Tallinn and Helsinki, and between Stockholm, Örebro, Karlstad and Oslo, we lay the foundations for future development throughout the Nordic and Baltic countries. The Skagerrak and Kattegat regions as well as the Stockholm and Helsinki regions are future mega cities if we establish a long-term and determined strategy that provides these areas with better infrastructure. Madam President, I would like It is not enough that we have a vision for our metropolitan regions in the southern and central Nordic countries. We need to have a vision for the entire Nordic region, including the North Calott. Railways, roads, ports and power lines must be improved so that we can all take part in the growth that is taking place in Sweden and the Nordic region. If we are serious about the idea of the whole country living, we must demonstrate through active policy that that vision is still alive. For me as a Christian Democrat, it is obvious that we should learn from the developments that took place at the beginning of the last century. In a way, we are in the same position today. The difference is that then we built the country, and now we build better infrastructure between countries. The effect will be the same. Then we laid the foundation for the Swedish welfare of the 20th century. If we continue with our vision today, we will lay the foundations for the well-being of the 21st century. Good infrastructure is a prerequisite for creating a socially and economically sustainable society.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-984	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will talk about the interaction between different transport systems, the need to maintain existing infrastructure and to invest in new technologies to solve the transport needs of the future and today. People's freedom depends on us having good communications. A well-functioning infrastructure is needed for companies to function and develop and thereby create growth for Sweden. Sweden is an elongated country. That is why it is particularly important that we use the infrastructure resources that we have very effectively. We need road, rail, air, shipping and walking and cycling routes to meet the different needs that we have. In order to make effective use of it, a functioning IT infrastructure is needed. It also includes good data management and that we invest heavily in artificial intelligence. Liberals don't believe that we should put different modes of transport against each other. Each mode of transport has its pros and cons. It is the overall supply that enables Sweden to develop and that we can maintain our welfare. A greater focus should therefore be placed on the handling of the entire journey, for both people and goods, in order to increase the possibility of choosing the most suitable mode of transport. It requires efficient transitions between different modes of transport and the existence of digital services that support this door-to-door perspective. Madam President, I would like However, a prerequisite for an efficient and climate-smart transport system is that it is reliable. If we are to make it easier for people and businesses to choose rationally, transport needs to work without unnecessary time delays and be seamless through the transitions. It is therefore of great importance that efforts on maintenance of existing infrastructure, such as rail and road, should be prioritised in future budgets together with the development of digital services. Public transport must be reliable in order to be attractive. In some regions, greater investment is also needed to meet demand, not least between air and rail and shipping and trains. Furthermore, we must not forget that more than half of transport is currently on the road. It is therefore important that we continue to invest heavily in the road network in order to increase accessibility and road safety in the future. The rehabilitation of the road network is also linked to the rapid development of the vehicle area, where electric, connected and autonomous vehicles are on the fast track. Liberals see opportunities for reduced climate impact, increased road safety and increased mobility as driving factors to increase investment in testerenor in a real environment to evaluate self-driving and electric vehicles. The technology has great potential, especially to improve different societal functions and facilitate people's everyday lives. Parking can provide space for homes and parks, the burden on health care can be reduced by increasing road safety and individual freedom of movement can increase significantly, not least for our elderly and people with disabilities. Research in these areas should therefore be given priority.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-990	Madam President, I would like We, who are Swedish elected representatives, have a great responsibility to shoulder. We have a responsibility not only to those voters who have elected us, but also to those who are unable to vote but who are nevertheless affected by the decisions that we take or refrain from taking here in Parliament. It is about children and young people, future generations as well as animals and plants. It may sound a little cliché, but it is actually the common future of all of us that we have to decide on. The world is facing a major challenge. World CO2 emissions are still increasing. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) estimates that it will be very difficult to reach the Paris objectives, i.e. that the global temperature increase will be kept well below 2 degrees and that we will work to ensure that it stays at 1.5 degrees. Achieving these objectives requires a rapid and comprehensive transformation of society. A world where we cannot cope with this challenge has major consequences for both humans and nature, when higher temperatures and extreme weather threaten. That is why we need effective solutions that actually reduce our CO2 emissions. One of these concrete solutions is the construction of high-speed rail. Madam President, I would like I have been assigned to be the Transport Policy spokesperson of the Green Party, and it is therefore my role to focus specifically on that part of the climate challenge related to transport. The transport sector is the main challenge in turning to a fossil-free and climate-smart society. About a third of Sweden's emissions come from transport, and this has not yet taken off. We have as a milestone target to reduce emissions from the domestic transport sector by 70% by 2030. For the system transition required, 2030 will be very soon, very soon. It is therefore necessary to step up efforts to change the transport sector as soon as possible. We from the Green Party want to create a modern and sustainable society, where it is easy for everyone to make sustainable and climate-smart choices. We humans want to be able to travel and move. We want to be able to live in one place and work in another. We want to be able to get to friends, relatives and pleasures in other places, and we want to exchange experiences and travel. However, in order for our travel not to jeopardise the chances of a good life for our children and future generations, our journeys need to be sustainable. We in the Green Party want everyone who wants to be able to travel, meet new people and experience other cultures without contributing to climate change. That's why we have to change how we travel. This calls for competitive and sustainable alternatives. The main solution for transporting a lot or many climate smarts is trains. This is precisely why Sweden needs new main rail lines for high-speed trains. During my time as Mayor of Lund, I pushed through that we should start building a track. It is an initiative that will enable more people to travel in a climate-smart and sustainable way. This initiative was made possible by the urban agreements decided by the government during the last term of office. I want to ensure that Sweden as a whole builds more rail. My motto is simple: Land is to be built by rail. We really need that in Sweden. With new high-speed trains and other necessary extensions of the railways, we will have more reliable traffic. Let me be clear: the choice is not between investing in new tracks for high-speed trains and investing in today's tracks. I want Sweden to put in place the resources needed both to repair and expand the railways. We are close to the capacity ceiling on a large part of the rail network. By building new tracks, we make it possible to unload the existing railway, so that necessary maintenance can be carried out. Investments in new rail allow more people to choose the train and more trains to arrive on time. It is an investment in the future of Sweden, the world and our children.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1000	Madam President, I would like As I was listening, I heard the word from high - speed trains. In my speech I was quite clear: the trains are in a catastrophic situation today. They're too late, and they're gonna be late. It will take a long time to make our sick railroad healthy. Improvements and the extension of existing rail could go a very long way. But is there really money to build a high-speed railway? And if we are now going to build a high-speed railway, how does Mrs Emma want to build it – on land or on a bridge?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1002	Madam President, I would like Emma Berginger, member of the Swedish Parliament, wants us to build new high-speed rail lines as quickly as possible. That is when we can take advantage of the effects we have, both in terms of climate and in terms of the effects we can see on the development of business. It is absolutely crucial that we get a rapid roll-out – but also that we build for really fast trains. Then it is a question of building tracks that are fixed, but when it comes to the technical characteristics of the railways in general, I think it is a matter for the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1003	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Transport Administration is not in favour of high-speed rail. They advocate 250 kilometers per hour, which is based on today's railways. Will Emma Berginger be content with that, or does she wish to suggest that she wants to build high-speed railways? It is therefore the opposite of what the Finnish Transport Administration wants, because of the high costs.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1004	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Transport Administration has to deal with the decisions made by the Swedish Parliament. Pending clear guidelines from the Swedish Parliament, the Swedish Transport Administration has stated that some parts of the network would be dimensioned for 250 kilometres per hour and some parts for 320 kilometres per hour. However, I advocate that as much of the network as possible be dimensioned for really fast speeds. This is how modern railways are built, both in Sweden and in Europe and abroad.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1005	Madam President, I would like The bird road between Oslo and Stockholm is less than 42 mil. Along this route, which is one of the most populous in Sweden, 3.4 million people live in 50 municipalities and nine labour market areas. There is an extensive daily commute, and large volumes of goods are transported along the bow. Between the two capitals, almost 1.4 million flights are made each year. Thanks to positive population development and strong business, the development of travel and freight transport has steadily increased over a long period of time. A high level of regional, national and international accessibility is crucial for continuing the development of society. However, today's infrastructure does not meet the requirements of an efficient and sustainable transport system. The Swedish Transport Administration's action selection study shows that today's railway can be developed and included in a future traffic system between Oslo and Stockholm. In the traffic vision for 2040, development strategies have been specified. As a first step, measures should be implemented to strengthen the capacity of the railway on the Arvika– Karlstad– Kristinehamn and Örebro– Västerås rail lines. In the next stage of development, new links are being built between Lilleström and Arvika and between Kristinehamn and Örebro. In the Trafikverket's vision of Oslo – Stockholm in 2042, the market players have shown how they want to travel on the railway when it is fully expanded. Large-scale regional transport links cities and labour market regions and enables fast and frequent commuting trips. The importance of travel time in competition with aviation becomes clear when the market shares for Oslo – Stockholm are compared with the market shares for Gothenburg – Stockholm. With the high-speed train between Gothenburg and Stockholm, the journey time is about three hours, and the train has a market share of 60 percent. Between Stockholm and Oslo, the distance is almost the same, but the train journey takes five hours instead of three. The market share there is only 10 – 15 per cent. For journeys within Sweden, the socio-economic calculation is carried out using the Swedish Transport Administration's model. The calculation has then been supplemented with the benefits that arise from a faster rail link to Oslo, and the results show that the overall socio-economic benefits will amount to SEK 67 billion. In addition, there are advantages for freight transport. The utility analysis shows that an expanded railway allows for a large-scale transfer of goods and passengers from air and road to rail. Rail is therefore an important part of the development towards a sustainable transport system where the national and global targets for significantly reducing emissions of climate gases are indicative. The industry is differentiated with a focus on forestry and pulp industry, tourism, services, banking, finance and insurance. In addition, there are several universities, colleges and knowledge clusters in the area. With increased accessibility, conditions are provided for increased collaboration, innovation and growth. The benefit analysis also shows an increase in housing construction, more jobs and increased regional productivity. When the new national infrastructure plan for 2018 – 2029 was presented, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth explained that the government wants to initiate talks with Norway about building faster rail between Oslo and Stockholm. It is now important that this work takes off. The objective that the journey time between Oslo and Stockholm should be 2 hours and 55 minutes is possible based on what can be achieved with a traditional railway that has a track standard for speeds up to 250 kilometres per hour. That is also what it takes to compete seriously with aviation – an investment that society, the climate and industry would have a lot to gain from.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1015	Madam President, I would like For four years, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have conducted an anti-Norway and anti-Rural policy. From the first day of government, a policy of increased taxation has been implemented from a distance. It affects people who depend on the car and aircraft and live outside our cities. The tax on petrol has been increased and the tax on diesel has been increased. There has been a deterioration in the rate of deduction and an increase in vehicle tax and the introduction of environmental zones. Thus, people who have bought environmental diesel cars have suffered from not being able to enter the cities in the end. It is planned to introduce a kilometre tax for heavy goods vehicles. It was not possible to get it through during the previous term of office, but if you continue, you will get it through. So we want to tax distances and not emissions. We have plenty of distance in Sweden, most of all in Norrland. It is a very harmful policy for Sweden and even more for us in Norrland. A flight tax has been introduced that has hit aviation in Norrland very hard. Unfortunately, we did not have time to see all the effects before the elections, but the more have come after that. Before the election, Nexjet went bankrupt. That company operated many of the smaller airports in Norrland. Norwegian has now left Skellefteå completely, and there is one airline left – with much reduced frequency. BRA Flyg is about to leave Umeå, at least with 50 percent of its flight capacity. Madam President, I would like Stefan Lövven's government has not led the confidence of voters and parliament to continue to rule Sweden. Thus, despite global prosperity and the best possible conditions, the area by area has failed. Care queues have doubled. The police have become fewer, even though the problems have increased. The gap between town and country has greatly increased in view of all taxes at a distance and all people who depend on the car. Climate emissions have actually increased. Despite talking about the environment and investing billions in the environment, climate emissions have increased, Madam President. Sweden needs more moderate politics and more alliance politics. We need more police, more school investments and more health care. We need to invest in our roads all over Sweden, which is now falling due. We must also pursue a better environmental and climate policy, which actually reduces emissions and not just increases costs. We really need environmental policy – not placard policy. Punishing people who depend on cars in the country is not a good environmental policy. This does not mean that emissions are reduced. People who depend on the car today, thanks to the policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, pay 17 crowns for the petrol. It costs 17 crowns a gallon, but you still have to go to work and drive your children. If the Social Democrats and the Green Party continue for four more years, the price of petrol and diesel will soon pass 20 crowns a litre, and that, my people in the country, you will not want! It is a very damaging policy that this government has managed to implement over these four years. Madam President, I would like I intend to continue to work towards reduced taxation for all people in the country and reduced taxation for everyone who is dependent on the car every day. Let us begin by removing the overindexation of petrol and diesel. Let us phase out the airline tax, and let us also stand up for all the people who depend on the car to and from work. The proposal for a kilometre tax is to be thrown into the garbage can as soon as possible. Why should we tax distances and not emissions, Madam President?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1025	Madam President, I would like Mr Riedl says that we are in favour of placard politics. I can say this: we will be standing in this House, in this pulpit, and not lying. I can promise that we Social Democrats are not lying, unlike some others in this House who say that we have introduced environmental zones. It is the Moderates and Moderate Alliance in Stockholm that have gone and promised that they will introduce environmental zones, and they say that we have done so in Norrland. That is a lie, Madam President!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1026	Madam President, I would like Anyone interested in reality can look at the press conference held by the Socialist Minister, together with an environmental partisan minister, when the new possibility of environmental zones was introduced, i.e. to enable the municipality to introduce environmental zones. It was the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government that did this. To me, Madam President, how Mr Jasenko can stand in the speaker's seat and argue the opposite is quite incomprehensible. Let's stick to the truth. After we have gone down from the speaker's seat, I can very easily show it to Jasenko if he wants to. It is your government, Jasenko, that has introduced this with environmental zones. I think you should stand by that. It is a very bad proposal, along with a lot of other bad proposals that you have implemented. But it is you who have done it and no one else.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1029	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl once again uses the speaker's chair to play with words and to play with the truth. He says we have introduced this. We've opened up the possibility! The Moderates in Stockholm thank and use this opportunity. We have nothing against the Moderates in Stockholm wanting to do so, but in Norrland we have not introduced what you want to say. We have not introduced it anywhere else, but only opened up the possibility for those who want to do so. The Moderates in Stockholm want to do it.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1031	Madam President, I would like At last we came to the truth! It is therefore the Social Democratic Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth who has introduced the possibility of introducing environmental zones for municipalities. How good that we can stick to the truth! Then Jasenko Omanovic can go and read the minutes. I have never argued that the Social Democrats in Norrland have introduced this, but I have said that your government has done so. In addition, the tax on petrol, diesel and vehicle taxes have been increased and the deduction of travel expenses has been reduced. It is right across the line of anti-Norway and anti-Rural policy. I'd be ashamed if I looked my constituents in the eye!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1033	Madam President, I would like What a tone you have in the speaker's chair, Edward Riedl – Norrland hostility, rural hostility and all that we should be ashamed of! I would like to tell you a little about what has happened in rural areas during this period, with state service agencies, 100 million more for the Norrland farmers, more money for railway and road maintenance, 100 000 new training places throughout the country – and not just at the major universities – and 5 billion more for broadband in rural areas. In 2006 Norrbotniabanan disappeared as by magic when the Moderates took over power. Now the shovel is in the ground. Can you answer how you stand on the Norrbotnia Line now, Edward Riedl?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1036	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that it is distressing to hear that I would be the one to speak up. I thought I was pretty sane in tone, but let's take this later. The government of social democrats and environmentalists who have been sitting for four years has thus increased the taxation of people in rural areas and outside cities by billions – by thousands of millions of SEK – and then sent back a few million and said that they are investing. They took away a few billion in rural aid and gave back 100 million and tried to sell it as a venture. So you have done in area by area: removed billions and returned a few million to the countryside. That's not investing in the countryside. As far as Norrbotniabanan is concerned, in four years you managed to lay zero meters of railway. You increased the tax on petrol and diesel, you increased the vehicle tax and you reduced the travel tax, but you did not manage to achieve one millimetre of railway in northern Sweden. It's terrible!
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1040	Madam President, I would like I thought my question to Edward Riedl was quite clear: what happens to Norrbotniabanan at a possibly different led government? Then you brought up the travel allowance, Edward Riedl. I sat on the Parliamentary Rural Committee, and one of our proposals was to make the deductions entirely distance-based. We agreed on the committee until the next day, when the group leader of the Moderates in this Chamber said that there will be nothing for the Moderates. So my questions concern Norrbotniabanan and the travel allowance.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1043	Madam President, I would like I'll answer you very simply. We will build the Norrbotnia Line; we will take the first parts. I can see that the government that sat, with social democrats and environmentalists, managed to increase petrol tax and diesel tax, reduce travel tax, increase vehicle tax and introduce airline tax. But you did not manage to lay a millimetre of railway in northern Sweden in four years, and that is what I find embarrassing. It's a failure and nothing else. You've talked about a lot of things, but you've accomplished very little.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1045	I would remind Members that everyone speaks through the President. That is one of the ways in which we have a good tone in this House.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1046	Madam President, I would like The serious haulage industry has been exposed to unfair competition for several years. Serious operators in the transport sector are becoming increasingly difficult to operate, and several companies have also gone bankrupt as a result of the current situation. The cause of the bankruptcies is not a bad business, but it is simply due to the competitive situation that prevails. In recent years, the number of operators in the market performing transport on Swedish roads has exploded. In essence, the problems revolve around the vehicles registered abroad, but let us not be led to believe that it is only the foreign ones that are the problem. It may as well be a Swedish player hiding behind a foreign registration number. The criminal networks – which is the case here – fly undisturbed under the radar of the authorities and can quietly carry out their criminal activities. Criminals have effectively infiltrated the transport industry and the logistics flows that exist, for transport is also an important part of the crime scene. Criminals have built up a fast and efficient system for their internal transport. A few weeks ago the police warned of the foreign criminal networks that are entering the country; the dark season attracts all sorts of thieves into our country. The police have also discovered a new phenomenon, namely that the foreign criminal networks cooperate with the Swedish. You haven't seen that before. However, the fraud in the transport industry is not just about illegal traffic, it is also about manipulated tachographs. This is a serious breach of the acquis and it is increasing dramatically. This fraud eliminates competition and has, not least, serious consequences for road safety. Drivers from mainly Europe's low-wage countries are most severely exploited in this. What we can almost describe is a modern variant of slave trade. That's what we see out on the road. These drivers are in a strong dependency position and cannot get out of the situation. Madam President, I would like What have I just told you about the Swedish haulage industry? The answer is quite simple. The serious haulage industry is being competed out, and the criminals are creating market shares. They take over and control important parts of our transport network. Criminals thus have access to a well-functioning logistics flow. In these flows they can carry out their internal transport. They can transport vehicles out of the country, such as stolen cars, agricultural machinery and other important things. What is the solution? Of course, the legislation must be reviewed to ensure that it is sufficiently powerful. But that's not enough. We must also be in control on the country's roads. We need to get a much greater number of controls on the road. It should be accompanied by strong sanctions in case of breaches of the rules and unauthorised carriage of goods or infringements of the cabotage rules. It should also be accompanied by expensive sanctions if the tachograph is manipulated. Together, we in this House can create the conditions for serious entrepreneurship. We can also contribute to healthy competition for entrepreneurs and those employed in the Swedish haulage industry.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1058	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very interesting post about the haulage industry and the competition it is exposed to! I agree that it is very badly exposed in Sweden. One of the things that has been done is that you can trample the cars for a long time, and you have introduced rules on winter tires. The police and customs have also had a little more opportunity here. The issue arose in the EU when, among other things, we would discuss which areas should be included in this discussion. The representative of the Swedish Democrats then voted 'no' so that the transport industry was removed from the common labour market. I therefore wonder if you think that the Swedish Democrats should have voted yes when Sweden wanted to introduce the common laws for the whole labour market.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1060	Madam President, I would like The proposal that was on the table was not good enough to get to the problem that exists. We are not alone in the problems we see in Sweden. They have the same concerns in the rest of Europe. We note that in Europe too, controls are too few in relation to the quantities of goods transported and with the money available to carry out illegal activities. Then we must have stronger legislation and more effective control, which can also clearly indicate when things go wrong. Clarification is great. But you have to ask yourself how to do it after 36 hours and the crime persists. Should the police unlock the door so that the driver can continue his journey? Claming should continue until the crime has ended.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1063	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers! I think you have to start somewhere. This business is under a lot of pressure right now. I meet riders on a daily basis and people who work as drivers, who think something needs to be done. Therefore, it is unfair to say that the law was too bad. We could have started with it, and we could have had another system and then worked on it. But the Swedish Democrats chose to vote against the law, which I find boring.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1065	Madam President, I would like If legislation is to achieve the objective it seeks, it must be strong from the start. It should be linked to the fact that you also have strong action when someone commits a crime. Swedish haulage industry, together with other serious haulage companies in Europe, is hard hit by people who make money circumventing the legislation. We must put an end to this, and we in Sweden have the opportunity to do so. But we must do it together with the rest of Europe.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1067	Madam President, I would like What's going on? I come from Mora, a rural municipality in northern Dalarna. The government claims to have ambitions for the whole country to live, but I say it lacks the ability to do so. The government has decided to relocate activities from large cities to other locations, which is a good thing. However, as I have pointed out in previous debates, this relocation takes place in regional growth centres and not in the towns affected by the state's escape from rural areas. This morning I was able to read in my local newspaper that Kronofogdemyndigheten is moving its business from Mora. The reason is, according to the responsible manager, that this is part of a larger relocation of the authority that the government has commissioned to carry out. This is happening right now in several places in Sweden. Madam President, I would like If you could swear in this Chamber, I would have done it now. This is an example of how the government's decision goes wrong. Mora has previously lost the tax authority, and we were very close to losing the district court. Our BB has been closed down, which means that women in northern Dalarna have a car ride of 3 hours and 40 minutes to BB. The state's infrastructure initiatives shine with their absence in Dalarna. Dalabanan, which is our train connection with the outside world, receives no lift in the Red-Green Government's major infrastructure investment, despite the fact that Dalarna is Sweden's fourth largest county to the surface, Sweden's fourth largest export county and Sweden's largest tourist industry county outside the metropolitan areas. If you just look at the population base, it looks as if Dalarna will only receive a quarter of the infrastructure investments you should receive. This leads me to what I was actually going to mention, namely that the government and perhaps the Green Party in particular have contributed to the fact that since March this year we have no scheduled flight from northern Dalarna. This will mean that Mora airport will have to wind up operations and terminate its staff. The airport will no longer be an open airport, which in turn endangers ambulance flights, ambulance helicopters and defence operations. The despair of the business community over this is monumental. The airport is a hub for 2 000 companies and 1 800 employees in rural areas. Many of these companies work in an international market. Several large companies also have international owners. These companies are now forced to move their offices and operations to Stockholm or, worse still, to the market in Europe. You can understand that because a single trip takes about six hours by car and train. Madam President, I would like I am trying to understand why the Green Party is blocking and jeopardising the possibility for us rural people to be able to live and work in our part of the country. For the Green Party, environmental arguments may outweigh the possibility of survival in rural areas. Perhaps that is why they decided that the State would invest SEK 250 million in a new airport in Sälen. If you look at the emission arguments, you can come up with the following. Before Trafikverket made its decision to stop the air traffic, an 18-seat aircraft flew from Sveg, landed in Mora and then flew on to Stockholm. Now they fly from Sveg to Stockholm and cause a release of 160 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. If you make a stopover, you would cause 176 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year, which is more. The problem, however, is that people are now driving. We know that car emissions increase by 276 tonnes of CO2 per year. The Green Party has thus contributed through its decision to increase emissions and jeopardise all business activities and jobs in northern Dalarna. I would like the Green Party to re-evaluate its decision, because a government decision is required here. The Green Party is blocking such a thing in the government.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1077	Madam President, I would like There is every reason to be optimistic about Swedish shipping. The flagging out that we have seen for many years and which has caused the Swedish merchant fleet to have shrunk seems to have stopped and has even been replaced by flagging. Now the merchant fleet is growing again. The discussion can now focus on how these positive steps will be a positive and long-term trend. There are currently about 10 000 people working on Swedish ships, and in the entire maritime sector there are about 100 000 jobs – jobs that create prosperity and prosperity. But shipping not only enables jobs in its own sector – far from it. A large part of Swedish industry depends on well-functioning maritime transport. 80% of all goods transported to and from Sweden are transported by sea. We see several positive steps for Swedish shipping, but there is still a lot to be done. Let me give you an example. In the Gothenburg archipelago there is an ambulance that is quite special. The ambulance consists of the boat Rescuer and a road ambulance standing on the deck. This ambulance has the entire Gothenburg archipelago as a catchment area. The only difference with an ordinary ambulance, except that it is a boat, is that it is registered in Denmark. How would we have reacted if the usual ambulances we see on our streets were registered in Denmark? We would probably have thought it was a little strange. The Swedish regulations need to be simplified and improved, so that it becomes competitive to have a Swedish flagged boat in this business. Our tax levels and tax systems need to be internationally viable and equivalent to those of our neighbouring countries. As for companies in general, regulatory simplification and harmonisation are required. For a sector as internationally competitive as shipping, this is of course particularly important. Maritime transport is also, more than many other sectors, dependent on long-term and predictable conditions. It is absolutely necessary to know that the conditions are long-term in order to dare to make the major investments that are often involved. In addition to harmonised tax rules and simplifications, there is also a need for cooperation between the state and industry. Such cooperation is currently taking place in other countries, such as Denmark, where state actors and industry actors are brought together in a maritime council. In this Council, matters can be discussed and anchored, and the skills of all involved are strengthened. The Swedish maritime sector is asking for something similar. In the Swedish maritime sector there is a great deal of competence and will. The conditions for the industry have improved. Now, during this term of office, let us take further steps to give Swedish shipping even better conditions! The whole of Sweden has a lot to gain from that.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1085	Madam President, I would like The Red-Green Government has had a clear reform agenda during the last parliamentary term to get more people into jobs and for spending on welfare, but also to meet the climate challenge and create a stable economic basis for times when the economic cycle is changing. There are many things that are good today. You could say that Sweden goes like the train. Now, let's just make sure the trains go like the train. But despite the fact that much is good, we cannot settle down. We've got a lot of work to do. Communication and infrastructure have no intrinsic value, but are an essential prerequisite for people's ability to live, live and work throughout the country and for the growth and development of society as a whole. The national infrastructure plan, which was decided by the government this spring, involves a total investment of SEK 700 billion during the planning period. The investment represents an increase of approximately 100 billion compared to the previous one. It is the largest railway investment in modern times. It means increased resources for operation and maintenance, but also for investments in new high-speed railways to connect our three metropolitan areas and create national and regional sustainable development. This is one of the largest urban development projects of our time for the whole of Sweden. It is about society as it stands today, but above all, Madam President, about how we want to meet and shape it from time to time we want to see in 25 or 50 years' time. I hope now and assume that we can reach a necessary and broad solution in Parliament on the next step. In Jönköping County there has been a political consensus, in which we Social Democrats, together with leading representatives of the Center Party and the Moderates, have pushed the issue of new main rails for high-speed trains. To find a solution for funding, so that construction can be completed within a reasonable time, we now need the power, responsibility and courage of the parties involved in the matter in this House. Only when the whole system is complete will the full socio-economic benefits arise. It is therefore important to find solutions that minimise construction time and keep the entire system together. Infrastructure and investment in rail are a key factor for larger labour market regions that enable people to move to jobs, studies and other activities, for increased housing construction and improved conditions for business and for the provision of skills in the business and public sectors. I can assure the President that there is hardly any business owner in Jönköping County who today does not find it difficult to obtain the right skills. In essence, this also applies to municipalities and regions. We are a small and export-dependent country. The need for fast and reliable transport is crucial for business growth and development. For the whole country to live and stay together, it requires a continued policy that sees country and city as interdependent. Madam President, I would like It's not about building a railroad. It's about building a future.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1096	Madam President, I would like Carina Ödbrink mentioned the word a high-speed train. I couldn't sit still in the bench. It is important to build for the future," says Carina Ödebrink. But when will the high-speed lines be built? When are they due by 2030, 2040, 2070? Are my great-grandchildren going to see the high-speed railway venture? It's a huge project. The railroad is sick today. Today's railroad needs fixing. When the high-speed railway is complete, hyperloop is almost out of date.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1099	Madam President, I would like I thank Jimmy Ståhl for the question. I hope and assume that in this House we can find a parliamentary consensus on a rapid solution for the whole system and sustainable financing. But I know that the Swedish Democrats are against such a solution. At least I haven't heard anything else. We need a new railroad. We need to bet on what we have and renovate it. However, we also need to ensure that new railways are built in order to increase passenger traffic and enable freight transport. Today there is virtually no capacity. Building new railways is necessary, and it must be done quickly.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1101	Madam President, I would like I agree with Carina Ödbrink – the railway needs to be built, and it needs to be built quickly. The problem is that 622 billion is invested in infrastructure. The Social Democrats have said that a high-speed railway should be built for about SEK 205 billion, which means that it will not reach its final goal. How will the Social Democrats resolve the fact that the railways come from point (a) to point (b)?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1102	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the government have decided that we should build high-speed trains to increase passenger and freight traffic. What we now have to do is find a consensus on solutions between the decent parties in this House.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1103	Madam President, I would like Now we will soon have a new government in place that will have to address the shortcomings we have in Sweden following this anti-car and rural policy. Sweden's vehicle owners and Sweden's countryside cannot tolerate any more tax increases and charges on their journeys. The Socialist Government's petrol and tax increases have pushed the price of litres up to record levels. This is by far the hardest hit on those who lack other alternatives, people who have to have their vehicles for jobs and errands and to be able to live throughout the country. There is a liter price today of over $17, with half of the price being a mere penalty tax. We who live in Skaraborg and in many of the country's other rural municipalities lack both metro and trams. Large parts of the countryside lack buses and have poorly maintained roads. In addition, our network is torn down. We must start to invest in the rehabilitation and extension of existing railways. We need more tracks on the West Main Line. Today there are major problems on the Western Main Line. Instead of planning these necessary renovations of existing railways and our roads, however, the anti-Rural Government has instead devoted itself to planning an expensive and completely unprofitable high-speed route between the country's three major cities. Madam President, I would like There must be an end to these discussions and planning for an expensive and unprofitable high-speed train. Put the proposal in the trash. Instead, we must renovate our existing railways and roads. Madam President, I would like There must also be an end to these irresponsiblely high fuel taxes that hit those who must have the car so hard. Taxes are hitting those who lack alternatives, and the high fuel taxes are hitting us very hard in rural areas. Madam President, I would like The government has also failed to take measures to eliminate the illegal commercial traffic that is competing for legal transport on our roads. We don't have enough traffic police. This allows illegal hauliers to compete out legal carriers without risking detection. Instead of dealing with these problems, the government continues to increase diesel taxes in Sweden, which further impairs the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. In addition, new mileage taxes are planned for hauliers, which will hit our country's long transport. The anti-truck government is punishing our own haulage industry with new diesel taxes, new charges and bad roads, but it is not tackling illegal transport. For example, a single alcobom has not been raised yet in our ports despite the fact that it has been investigated and clear for four years. The competitiveness of our haulage companies and our companies needs to be strengthened and not further deteriorated. In order to cope with the next recession, we must ensure that competitiveness is strengthened and that illegal transport is combated. Our haulage industry is the bloodstream for companies and growth to work throughout Sweden. We have two major truck manufacturers in Sweden. It's not a coincidence. We need truck transport in Sweden. That is why we say no to the government's planned new kilometre taxes and high fuel taxes which this anti-harvesting and anti-harvesting government is now planning to implement. Instead, we want to strengthen the haulage industry and the competitiveness of our companies. It creates jobs and growth here in Sweden. We need a new government that is renovating our railways and roads and ensuring that trains come and go on time. We need a government that creates better conditions for jobs and growth throughout Sweden. Sweden needs a new government.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1116	Madam President, I would like We know that a new recession is unfortunately lurking around the corner. The extent and depth of this economic downturn is impossible to predict. But daring to invest in growth and competitiveness is something that needs to be done in a situation where the economy needs to be stimulated. To be prepared, to have thought a step further, is to create winners instead of losers when the recession tightens its noose around the country and the most important thing we can now do. There is often talk of structural reforms, of the need to change the labour market and its functioning. Of course, there is some truth to that. But what we know from both historical experience and empirical knowledge has an effect is investment in infrastructure. It is the short-term effect of increased construction providing more jobs. However, it also has a long-term effect by enlarging labour market regions, creating better flows, strengthening human capital and creating meetings between people. Having the courage to invest in a safe card, which we know has an effect and which also has a beneficial impact on distribution policy, is something that is smart and wise rather than throwing itself into experiments on the labour market. There is a saying in the economy that there are no free lunches. Whether this is true or not can of course be discussed. What can be noted is that there are some lunches that are almost free. Some are almost like getting paid to eat them. In this respect, there is a Lun ch which is better than everyone else in northern Europe. That lunch is a fixed connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör. The local and regional reasons for such a relationship are many. Copenhagen was to be connected with northwestern Skåne. We would create an enlarged labour market region of 130 000 individuals. We would also enable 3,500 homes in Helsingborg harbour in one of the most attractive locations in Sweden. The effects of the Fehmarn Belt link between Denmark and Germany could be fully exploited by linking northern Sweden with Germany and thus creating better lead times. On this basis, the vulnerability of the regional system and of the national system would be significantly reduced. This would, of course, have an impact on the national economy. Madam President, I would like What do I mean by that an HH connection is basically a free lunch? Well, it is precisely on this route that there is a processed cash flow. There are ferries today. We know we have a revenue. This means that we could bring back the investment in 24 years. In the context of infrastructure, it is a moment. This is also why international and Swedish investors stand in line to be involved. The market makes the assessment that this is the right thing to do. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the State takes responsibility for it and owns and operates it, as it is a direct revenue to the State. The Social Democratic-led government, together with Denmark, has taken historic steps towards an HH relationship. In Denmark, a cross-ministerial council, a reference group, has been set up. This should also be done here, like Denmark. Regardless of which government we have after the formations that are now taking place, this issue must be pursued further. It is a matter of destiny for Swedish, Skåne and Danish competitiveness. A fixed link between Helsingborg and Helsingör is the closest that Swedish infrastructure will ever come a star in Guide Michelin.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1127	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been and is still a leading country in terms of digitalisation. It has been a good competitive advantage for us. We live in one of the world's most innovative countries, which digitalisation also contributes to. Digitisation is a process that in the same way as when the phone or car came reshape society. It has been a great opportunity for people to quickly get the information that in the past took months in the best libraries or to meet a huge number of people to communicate and exchange thoughts with. But the technique is also good when you just want to book a trip, order an appointment with your dentist or maybe pay your bills. This applies to all those who have a good internet connection. For those who can use this opportunity, there are almost only benefits. But that's not how it looks to everyone. The Bredband expansion is faltering. It is far from everyone who has the infrastructure to use all these services. In places where you have the greatest benefit of broadband, it is often illuminated by its absence. At the same time, the trend is that digital technology is often the only entrance to both our municipalities and many other services offered by society. For many people, the broadband expansion is only a long wait while the old copper lines are being dismantled and the mobile phone lacks coverage. It's a big social problem. This not only leads to increased environmental costs – physical transport is needed rather than digital communication – but it also leads to reduced growth in the country and reduced service for the growing proportion of older people. It also leads to unnecessary exclusion for many. In addition, the government pays large amounts of money through the Swedish Board of Agriculture for broadband expansion without full control of what the sums are spent on and over the continued roll-out of broadband. IP-Only, for example, has received SEK 580 million for broadband expansion through the Swedish Board of Agriculture and has promised fast delivery. Many of the intended subscribers have signed up for the call of interest and promised fast delivery while thousands of rural subscribers are still waiting. In addition, registrations of interests have been binding, which means that one is bound to wait for this particular supplier. Stefan Lövven's government has not protected either broadband expansion, our rural companies or our elderly with a need for secure communication. Instead, under the slogan of climate policy, money has been wasted on e.g. electric bicycles and building subsidies. This has been done instead of ensuring that broadband and therefore climate-smart communications are in place throughout the country. In addition, during the term of office during the boom of fire, taxes have been increased by SEK 60 billion. This has led to a division of the country between those who have good communications and those who do not. It has also reduced growth – which will lead to fewer companies and less tax revenue. Digitalisation must be an opportunity and not an obstacle in our modern society. Broadband connectivity should not just be an opportunity for people in big cities.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1136	Madam President, I would like Much has been done in recent years with a red-green government to reverse developments, and much is going in the right direction. Together, we have set clear priorities for strengthening society. We have set clear priorities for welfare, which is very good, but also clear priorities for infrastructure. Sweden should have an infrastructure that can be trusted for Sweden to be strong in the future and for us to be able to create jobs, prosperity and growth – no matter where you live. Sweden should stick together, and it should be possible to live and work in all parts of the country. The government has made the biggest investment in infrastructure in modern times. In total, the Government is investing 700 billion in infrastructure up to 2029. Of this, 77% are rail investments, which are going to develop the railways. Madam President, I would like The climate is not waiting. A lot of work is needed in many areas to reverse developments. Investing in an expanded and improved rail network is an important tool in this work. It is important to improve maintenance and to invest in the railways, not only to make life easier for us, and not only because it facilitates work on the climate, but also because it strengthens efforts to develop society and growth. This summer, four out of ten trains were delayed. It takes maintenance and new tracks to make things better. These efforts may cause more people to choose the train rather than fly, for example. Today, however, many are forced to choose other means of transport in order to be sure to arrive on time. This is because the capacity is too small. The number of travellers has doubled in the last 20 years, but the tracks are no more. It sometimes goes slower now than before. For those of us who live in Östergötland, the investments in Ostlinken are extremely important. For us, the lack of tracks, especially between Linköping and Norrköping, is very clear. Pendant trains cannot develop in line with the demand that exists. But the government's decision means that Trafikverket has been given the go-ahead to continue the construction of Ostlänken, and of course we are incredibly happy about that. Madam President, I would like As an East Göte, I would like to mention a road that is very important to us, namely the E22, which has now been prioritised. It will make it much easier not only for Söderköpingsbor but for all those who travel through Östergötland. There have been long lines. But now, within a few years, we can start building the road. It'll make it easier for a lot of people. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that I am pleased with the investments that are being made for us in Eastern Europe, but also for the whole of Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1144	Madam President, I would like That prosperous, growing and successful companies are the foundation of our welfare cannot be repeated enough times. Perhaps this is particularly necessary in this House. It is mainly in our small companies the new jobs are growing. Four out of five new jobs created in recent decades have been created in small businesses. However, larger companies remain important for employment. They make up a large part of our exports and contribute large amounts of tax, which can then become well-being. For an export-dependent country like Sweden, access to good infrastructure is of central importance. Much of what is produced in Sweden will go further out into Europe and the world. But it is not just products that should be transported so that our companies can continue to be successful. It is also people who need to move – those who are going to get to and from work every day. Many companies, not least small and growing companies, bear witness to the difficulties in finding the right skills. Sometimes there is, but a little bit away. Even then, it means that good communications are important to enable more people to take the jobs that exist. Madam President, I would like I am well aware that there are many important infrastructure efforts that need to be made. However, I would like to highlight an investment that is particularly important, and not only because it happens to be in and concerns the constituency from which I come, but also because it is important for the whole business community and for the whole of Sweden. The railway between Gävle and Sundsvall and Härnösand today consists of a single track. It is a distance of 27 km where passenger transport is to be combined with freight transport. It's a stretch where travel times actually increase. They're not decreasing, they're increasing. It's not sustainable. We need to build a double track on this stretch. A double track would halve travel times and quadruple the capacity of people and goods. More goods could be moved from road to rail, which would mean a radical reduction in emissions. Today it's on the trail. So it is not even possible for our companies, however much they try, to contribute to greater sustainability. There is simply no room to take over to rail. With halved travel times, the labour market in southern Norrland would grow together with Stockholm. I could go to the Riksdag from Sundsvall not in 3 hours and 40 minutes, as today, but in 2 hours. But, of course, it's not for me now. We're gonna build the railroad. The availability of labour would, of course, also be widened if the labour market region grew. It would also enable more people to live in one place and work in another. This could help to reduce the overheating of Stockholm, and the investment is socially profitable. A double track between Gävle, Sundsvall and Härnösand would mean as much for northern Sweden as the construction of the Öresund bridge made for Skåne. Madam President, I would like Finally, I hope that the government that takes office, regardless of which one, will prioritise the construction of a double track between Gävle, Sundsvall and Härnösand – not because I think so, but because people, companies, the environment and the whole of Sweden need it.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1153	Madam President, I would like I will begin by welcoming Jörgen Berglund to Parliament and the debate. It's nice to have a new Western Norwegian here in Parliament – unfortunately we're only getting fewer and fewer. So to the question of the double track between Härnösand and Gävle. Unfortunately, the previous alliance government has not delivered anything on this issue. In the plan that we have implemented here in the Riksdag, where we invest a total of more than 700 billion, we also invest in Ostkustbanan from Gävle and 40 km north at the same time as we start construction with a double track two mil south of Sundsvall. Will we continue this effort in the event of a moderate government?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1155	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jasenko, for the question. I guess we'll just have to stick a little bit to the facts here. In fact, it was the former alliance government that started work on the new Ostkustbanan by deciding to build new railway south of Sundsvall down to Dangersjö and then extended double track down to Kungunda. That's fact number one. In fact, no 2 is that you can talk as much as you want about investment in infrastructure if you do not have a policy that actually increases tax revenues, and I think we moderates do. I feel very confident that the decided routes that are now on the table will be implemented. Preferably, of course, there will be more.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1157	Madam President, I would like Absolutely, the government of Reinfeldt decided, but no money was made available. It was we who made sure that the money came both to that distance and to the distance from Gävle and 40 km north. I very much hope that the attitude of the moderate-led government in the past – a hostile attitude towards Norrland – does not exist and that the efforts we are making today are not being removed.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1159	Madam President, I would like As I said, I think it is important to actually stick to the conditions that prevailed. When this decision was made, the money needed was also provided, just in accordance with the practice. What this government has done is to have paid the last part of the money. That's what you do in infrastructure projects, so there's nothing strange about that. As I said, I feel very confident that this initiative will continue.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1161	Madam President, I would like This is the very first time that I am standing in Parliament's pulpit. It feels honorable but above all binding, especially in times like these. Just because the parliamentary situation is difficult and the discussions in the media are mainly about the process of government formation, we must not stop debating and talking about substance policy. That is why today I want to highlight something that is close to my heart, namely the conditions for living, living and working throughout the country. Too many people know what it feels like when in the age of urbanisation you are seen as the one who stayed behind instead of moving to a larger city or region. It is often forgotten that what is a bit carelessly referred to as sparsely- or rural is actually needed for the whole of Sweden to work. Without supplies and production coming from and taking place in other parts of the country than in the big cities, most of it would stop. Should no electricity come from the power lines or food come to the shops, the urbanisation would neither proceed nor seem particularly attractive. People must therefore both be able and willing to live in rural and rural areas in order for the production of everything that is so important for the whole country to continue to work. The infrastructure in the form of roads, railways and boat and air links is therefore particularly important for the operation of Sweden as a whole. Only in my own county of Gävleborg, which is only an hour away from Stockholm, there are major shortcomings today. People move by car, and the roads must work, but not everyone today. If you need to go further, you may step on a train, which is unfortunately delayed by the bottleneck of the single-track Ostkustbanan. The fact that taxes on petrol have been substantially increased or that it is now more expensive to fly does not make things any better. The idea of a red - green kilometre treasure terrifies. There is no subway in Gävle, Ockelbo or at home in Söderhamn. It is not always attractive to stay or even establish yourself in such an environment, although it should and must be. Punishing distances, as the outgoing Red-Green Government does, is not the solution to Sweden's problems. On the contrary. The counties north of Dalälven are central to Sweden's functioning. There is hydropower, large parts of the forest industry, agriculture, ore in the north, important companies and entrepreneurs, to name but a few important factors. The distribution back to the counties of the important production that is taking place is clearly too low. I can once again take my own county as an example: It should be obvious that the E4 through Gävleborg is of four-field standard and not strangled by the two-plus-one road that exists today between Gävle and Söderhamn with severe traffic disruptions as a result. This makes transport difficult for private individuals, entrepreneurs and not least the police, rescue services and ambulances. It should be self-evident that the national roads are of good order. And it should be obvious that Ostkustbanan, the lifeblood that provides Sweden with both important goods and competent individuals commuting, is two-track. It is more important than prioritising fast track in southern Sweden. As well as it must pay for individuals to work, it must pay for the counties to have a successful business sector that is crucial for Sweden's functioning. It is ultimately a matter of the core state's task to provide a good infrastructure that individuals and entrepreneurs pay their taxes to obtain. We must ensure that it is possible to live and operate throughout Sweden, even in the counties north of Dalälven, otherwise Sweden will stop working. Madam President, I would like We must create an increased awareness of this for the sake of the whole of Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1173	Madam President, I would like Business is the foundation of our well-being. Transport is an important part of business and is the bloodstream that makes society work. I've been part of this business both as a racer and as a driver. Now is the time to deliver wise political decisions. Today, there is no level playing field between Swedish and foreign hauliers. Swedish competitiveness must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The police do not seem to have the effective tools to prosecute crimes committed by foreign cars and hauliers in our country. It can be used to hold vehicles until the fines have been paid. But the police have to unlock the wheel buoy already after 36 hours, allowing the car to be driven away. That time limit must be removed. The wheel buoy needs to sit until the fine is paid and not until 36 hours have passed. If rules are not complied with or controlled, they will have devastating consequences. There will be lawless activities where foreign drivers and hauliers can commit crimes with impunity. Offences against cabotage rules are recognised but are still not prosecuted. Drivers have to steal diesel in order to be able to return home. And drivers live and live in their trucks without reasonable compensation. There is a need for more police officers and traffic police to remove the illegal hauliers from our roads. We want safer roads and a level-playing field! Clearer customer responsibility is needed. The responsibility of the clients must also be tightened up. Prices must be reasonable in procurement. Otherwise, serious companies risk being knocked out by the rogues. The interpretation of driving and rest times really needs to be reviewed. It is difficult to cope with the strict driving and rest times, and if these are violated, both the driver and the driver risk high fines and penalties. This creates stress. We have a reality of road construction and congestion. Parking is being converted into traffic control sites, and rest areas are becoming fewer and fewer. When the driver arrives at his parking lot it is often busy. Denmark has a softer vision and an acceptance for a smaller time deviation. Perhaps Sweden can copy this, to reduce the stress on our roads? That should be a matter of course equal to everyone. It should be self-evident that all lorries, regardless of their country of origin, should pay congestion charges, be subject to environmental zones and pay fines. Unfortunately, this is not the way it is today. Madam President, I would like Business is the only basis for our well-being, and the transport industry is an important part of society's bloodstream.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1182	Madam President, I would like Many descriptions have been made of what happened in 2015 when more than 160 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden. These are the highest figures ever, and they put enormous strain on our society. We also saw the strength of our civil society, with all volunteers who helped and volunteered around the clock to handle the emergency reception. For me as a social democrat and a politician in parliament, this was a proof of strength from our welfare society. Municipalities, authorities, NGOs, individual citizens and retired teachers stood up. At the same time, it was clear that responsibility for the refugee situation within the EU could not be borne by just a few individual countries. That was the reason why we sought broad agreements and had to take a number of urgent measures. It was difficult, but it was necessary to deal with an emergency situation and to bring the issue of joint responsibility more clearly on the European agenda. The reason it was difficult is probably easy to understand for most people. These are political decisions that affect individuals, as well as many people in a very difficult and vulnerable position. But the alternative, not to act, would also have consequences, both in Sweden and for how we could push for international responsibility. Despite a broad agreement, there are still very different views in this House on migration policy. It could be natural. But what worries me more is the difference that exists in terms of integration policy and the signals that some political representatives choose to send out. Part of the agreement, which was necessary to remedy the situation, was due to the fact that a number of municipalities in our country sidelined. They did not stand up to be part of the joint Swedish reception of refugees. Therefore, decisions on the allocation of responsibilities to all municipalities were an important part of improving reception and integration. Against this background, I would like to send an appeal to the representatives of the Moderates in this House. Maybe the call might sound a little strange considering my accent. But it reads: Don't listen to your Scanian party partners! What we are seeing in Skåne now, that some people are trying to compete with the Swedish Democrats in xenophobia, will not make integration policy in Sweden any easier. It is worrying when individual municipalities, which have not been part of the reception and the sharing of solidarity in the past, are the first to stand in line and call for a stop to refugees. It is distressing to see that my municipality of residence, moderated Staffanstorp, places refugees in caravans a bit outside the community and presses up posters presenting itself as the last resistance in a struggle against refugee reception and refusing to give up. What we need now is to continue working to improve integration. We see how much time it takes for refugees to get to work is significantly shortened. We need to build more homes around our country in order to improve reception. We do this best when all the actors work together. We do not do this by saying, as moderate municipal representatives in Skåne now want to do, that we should not take any responsibility for the reception of refugees.
i-8o6ABFAmpuzkds1R9gHSyg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson! I have some comments on the history that was given here. I believe that everyone in this House knows that, throughout the last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats criticised the Moderates for our migration policy. But then in some miraculous way they were prepared to accept it and even put it on the table of the Riksdag. It is good that the Social Democrats have come to that understanding, but it may also impose a little on rhetoric. I think Rikard Larsson would benefit from taking it down a little on this issue and having a more factual discussion. The agreement we made was important. But I note that when we meet here today, three years later, everything is still not done. As an event, it is the things that we brought forward from the bourgeois side that have not been carried out. I hope that the turn of the agreement means that these things will now be implemented, such as the mandatory social orientation of asylum seekers, which we are still waiting for. When will it be in place, Rikard Larsson?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1193	Madam President, I would like I think it was important that we made a broad agreement. And I'm grateful that the Moderates were on it. We can of course have different history descriptions. But I think the descriptions of what happened in 2015 are fairly consistent. I think we can also agree that the measures were needed. Instead, we must now put a great deal of gunpowder into integration. And then it's just like Johan Forssell says. It contains a lot of questions, such as what kind of response, what training and information the new arrivals receive. There are areas that we need to constantly improve.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1197	Madam President, I would like The last one I can agree with. There is much about integration that we need to improve today, not least when it comes to the establishment of the labour market. It is going far too slowly, even though we are at the top of an international and historically strong boom. I am concerned that this government has lost the opportunity, for example in terms of setting higher demands in the supply support on activity but also in terms of values. As I said, it would have been an advantage for Sweden if the things we took in hand in 2015 had come into place. I regret that this is still not the case.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1199	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are not satisfied with the situation in the labour market. But Johan Forssell should also be pleased that we are now shortening the time it takes for new arrivals from not having a job to getting into employment. That's a short time, isn't it? Unemployment is falling. This must also make Johan Forssell happy. This also applies to those who come here as a refugee. There is also a decline in the lack of control in this group.
i-TB4acieTo5xtgwWwWyLMy2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rikard, for your speech. I have some objections to the description of what autumn 2015 looked like. We saw a Social Democracy that was completely paralyzed between taking responsibility for Sweden and Sweden's borders or retaining power under pressure from the Green Party. It went so far that every week there were 10 000 asylum seekers crossing the border. Today, it is about 400 per week that goes to Sweden. In the end, you got shot when the Alliance's four party leaders came and knocked on the door and said: That's enough. Now the Social Democrats must take responsibility for Sweden. If there is a Social Democratic government, will the Social Democrats still be in favour of a tight refugee policy? Will you go from words to actions when the Moderates and the Alliance reach out and say
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1204	Madam President, I would like Not surprisingly, I do not really share the description of the paralysis. I think we should realise that these are difficult issues. For me – and for many others in this House – the decisions we took in the autumn and winter of 2015 were the most difficult ones to take. It was about introducing ID checks and border controls. Of course, it has a major impact on the lives of individual people, both for those who come as refugees and for the border regions, such as the Öresund region from which I come. Of course, it was very difficult decisions that are not made lightly. It was therefore a strength that we were able to reach agreement on the whole migration policy, on how to deal with the emergency situation and on what it would look like through the temporary legislation. Our ambition is to continue with broad agreements on this issue with all the decent parties in the Swedish Parliament. However, I do not count the Swedish Democrats there.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1208	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard, for your answer! Again, we have seen two examples of when the Social Democrats have chosen power before taking responsibility for Sweden. It was first autumn and winter 2015. It took months. Then it applies to the temporary secondary school law, which makes an exception for individual groups and not generally, i.e. the law should not be equal for everyone. You have repeatedly shown that you cannot take responsibility for Swedish migration policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1211	Madam President, I would like I think we should look at the figures on the reception of refugees. Then you can ask yourself: Was this a government that managed to deal with the situation and take Sweden out of the crisis that we were actually in 2015, when you didn't even get teachers to the schools to take care of the new arrivals? Then you can look at the statistics and ask yourself: Have we been dealing with that crisis, or have we not?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1212	Madam President, I would like We have just left a term of office when migration to Sweden has been a lot of focus, not only in Swedish society and in the social debate, but also in many discussions in this House. Nor is it surprising in the light of the exceptional reception in many ways that has been the focus of the debate. As late as 2015 it was only in one year 163 000 who applied for asylum in this country. In five years the reception was up to 300 000 people – family immigration is added. Nor do I believe that we are yet to see in full all the consequences of the refugee crisis. A lot of the challenges associated with this and also problems lie before us, not least with regard to the biggest issue here and now, namely integration. We must ensure that we avoid repeating decades of bad integration policies. We must quickly ensure that people become part of Swedish society and enter work or education, get housing, etc. These debates are usually rather predictable. It usually happens so that we stand here in the speaker's chair and throw a lot of words back and forth about who did what and when and whose fault it was. Maybe it's less interesting right now. I would argue that the big issue is as soon as possible what we learn from what has been, both what we did well and what we did less well. For me, the single most important lesson from the refugee crisis is that Sweden needs a migration policy that is in line with what applies in our surrounding world. It was a time when we presented ourselves as an example of the fact that, in the area by area, we have completely different rules, not just from our Nordic neighbours, but from the whole of the European Union. It was a principle that often sounded very good in festive speeches, but when it faced reality and its challenges it was not so much more than just a beautiful principle. It was unable to cope with the reality that became. We from the Moderates have said that one needs to find a form of long-termness in this. There is a need for a long-term perspective in time, but also for a long-term perspective in this House. People who come to Sweden should know which laws and rules apply in this country, even if we change government or if there is a bill. Authorities, municipalities and the state should know what the planning conditions are. The single most important problem in the last parliamentary term, in addition to the fact that the rules differed, was the sharp caste from one extreme point to another. As everyone knows, the time for the sharp castes could sometimes be very short. Our starting point is that the temporary law is needed and needs to be extended until we have found the long-term perspective. Then there are a few more things that need to be added. Sweden, for example, needs a sharper supply requirement in the event of family immigration. It is quite natural that people who come to Sweden want to bring their family here. It is equally natural that there is a livelihood, a home and that there is a connection in the country that is to become your new home country. We also need to tighten up the requirements for citizenship. In an international context, the requirements in Sweden are very low. It is perfectly reasonable that we have not only lived for a longer time in Sweden than is the case today. It is also reasonable to know a little about what is to become your new home country. One should have basic knowledge of the Swedish language, and one should know the laws and values that are the norm for our society. It's not to mess with people, it's basically to help them into Swedish society. We have put these proposals on Parliament's table. We invite parties to participate in the discussions. I hope that we can find a cross-block agreement on this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1221	Madam President, I would like Two throws isn't good. But I believe that Johan Forssell belongs to a party that is used to a sharp throw on this issue from talking in the election movement about opening its hearts to another migration policy. I will not be more confrontative, but rather address what Johan Forssell says about the broad agreements. I think it is good to find broad agreements, and it is good not to increase the tone of the refugee issue. Nevertheless, I have to ask the question that I raised in my speech and which Johan Forssell did not raise. Is it with the Swedish Democrats that you want to go along according to a Scanian model and make deals about what integration policy should look like, or is it with them that I call the decent parties in parliament?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1224	Madam President, I would like I will give a piece of advice to Rikard Larsson, and it is up to him to accept it or not. It is a bit silly to still talk about autumn 2014. Everyone knows that we have had an extensive discussion in the Moderates about this. I am the first to say that I do not think these issues were dealt with very well earlier. But we're parting. You have not had that discussion in the Social Democrats. I have not heard a self-examination that Europe should not build any walls. As recently as a few months ago, you put a product on Parliament's table to grant a residence permit for 9 000 adults, men of age who have been refused their asylum application. You're welcome to have that rhetoric, but I think you should first clean up your own door-- it gets a little weird. We want a cross-block agreement. We see that the way to get there is to have a parliamentary inquiry, just as we are dealing with many important issues in this House. We have also said that it is natural for all parties to be invited to participate in this investigation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1226	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you of this in the light of the fact that Johan Forssell is the one in this House who tries to present himself and his party as those who stand for stability on this issue. I say 2014 not because I want to sprinkle salt in the wounds in any way but to point out that this is a difficult issue. Many parties can reflect on how stable they have been on this issue. Johan Forssell's party is no exception. I think it is important to make broad agreements, but my question remains: Are you getting inspiration from what is now happening in Skåne?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1228	Madam President, I would like I will gladly repeat my answer. We want a parliamentary inquiry. We want all the parties in this House to be invited to participate, as has happened during the last parliamentary term on other issues. I know it is Rikard Larsson's own party that has initiated these investigations, with all parties. It's no stranger than that. I welcome the interest of the Social Democrats. As late as in Almedalen, I asked Rikard Larsson's representatives whether the Social Democrats were prepared to discuss this particular cross-block issue with the Moderates. Then the answer was no. I hope there's new water running under the bridges now.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Forssell, for your speech. I would like to ask a question on that. In his speech, Johan Forssell said that Sweden cannot have a migration policy that differs from that of other EU countries. Therefore, I would like to ask how the migration policy that Sweden has had historically valid family reunification and residence permits for humanitarian reasons, that is, the possibility of staying for severely vulnerable people in need of it, is different from that of other EU countries.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1231	Madam President, I would like It is the whole of Swedish migration policy that has separated itself. This is a factor that contributed to such a high migratory pressure. It may not be the only factor– there are also other factors of explanation, trodden paths, etc. But when you put the Swedish policy next to that of all the other countries in Europe, it is clear that it differed. We are aware of the consequences. Maria Ferm is also very aware of them. As far as family reunification is concerned, we can see that Swedish policy has been divided, for example, by the fact that we have not had strict livelihood requirements in the event of family immigration. We have had a demand, but at the same time we have had a long list of exceptions that have completely undermined that requirement. In the case of humanitarian residence permits, it was a very small basis for protection. After all, it was the red-green government that chose to abolish it. I don't think that's what made the whole difference, but I think that in the context of a whole was still natural. That is why we voted in favour of that proposal when it came.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1234	Madam President, I would like The Environmental Party has allowed the parliamentary investigation service to find out what it looks like in other EU countries. Currently, 20 EU Member States grant full rights to family reunification, 11 of which grant residence permits for humanitarian reasons. In view of this and of Johan Forssell's answer that it may not have affected the situation in 2015, I hope that there is an opening in the Moderates to allow families to reunite and allow people who need to stay to do so.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1235	Madam President, I would like So it was Maria Ferms's own government that made these proposals. Maria Ferm also repeats a misconception: that family reunification should not be allowed. This is not true; it is, in fact, completely wrong. Family reunification is excellent, but it requires a permanent residence permit. That's the thing. One can think about how reasonable it is that a person who may be leaving Sweden in three four months' time should have the right to take his or her entire family to Sweden without a requirement for a living. I don't think that's reasonable.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1237	Madam President, I would like Sweden is ours, it is the land of six and a quarter million living Swedes. But it is also the land of the dead, theirs who built it for us from the beginning and left us their work of managing and improving. ..................................................... The Swedes have acquired the right to their country. Sweden has been ours since millennia with the natural right of the grower and user, through the victims of the fathers in blood, through the distinctive culture that has been created here. What Sweden today is, it has made it dead and living Swedes, and no one else. Sweden is today ours through Swedish aspirations. The task of the living Swedes is to preserve it and improve it by continuing this endeavour – on the basis of freedom. ..................................................... What I just read is very short excerpts from a longer text written by Vilhelm Moberg, called Swedish aspiration. It was released by the Armed Forces Staff in 1941, in the midst of world wars, in the face of the threat of Nazi occupation. It is just as topical today as it was then, even though 80 years have passed since it was written. Today's Sweden does not in itself face an occupation threat from foreign power. Instead, the threat today comes from various sources: from a supranational and increasingly anti-democratic Europe that threatens our national self-determination, and from the destructive policies of the social liberal establishment for decades. In Swedish efforts, Moberg says that the danger to our country does not always come from outside, but that the danger sometimes lies within the country's borders. Madam President, I would like The results of mass immigration and multiculturalism in recent decades are very clear. Sweden, once a safe and homogeneous country, is now increasingly characterised by fragmentation, segregation, exclusion and insecurity. The imported crime, with settlements and shootings, stone stones and fires, sexual assaults and gang rapes, is tearing Sweden apart. Added to this is a Swedish welfare that is about to be demolished in line with increasing immigration. Among other things, we can see how school, health care and care for the elderly are no longer enough. We can see how new arrivals are given priority in the labour market and housing queues, while illegal immigrants are often given access to already strained welfare. Slowly but surely the Swedes are becoming a minority in their own country. We can also see how the other parties have made it possible for anti-democratic, violent and anti-female Islamism to grow strong even in our part of the world. The failure is monumental. Not only that, Madam President. Too many parties and large parts of the journalistic and cultural establishment also have the nerve to all too often reduce and sometimes also deny and mock our heritage, our culture and what previous generations have built up. Moreover, there seems to be a lack of understanding that this stable, democratic and equal welfare society is a product of the fact that there has been a common foundation to stand on – cultural, moral, linguistic and religious, but also ethnic. These are things that have bound us together. This foundation is now being demolished, slowly but safely and piece by piece. And if you succeed in this, the basic condition for a stable and cohesive Sweden disappears. Finally, Madam President, let us remember that there is only one place on earth where the Swedes have the right to rule over themselves. There is only one place on earth where the Swedes have acquired the right to a country through their efforts. This country is Sweden. It is too valuable to be put in the hands of cultural Marxists and social liberals.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1248	Madam President, I would like The Member of the Swedish Democrats spoke of mocking the dead. He talked about Vilhelm Moberg. If Vilhelm Moberg had heard what the Member of the Swedish Democrats said, he would have rotated in his grave, as it is called. I think it is a mockery of his memory to talk in this way about the generations that have built up this country. For among them, Richard Jomshof, there are many people who have come from many countries – ancestors of people who live here today and who have created a country and its economy. He would have rotated in his grave when you talk about the values that have built up Sweden threatened with openness. The values that have built up Sweden are openness, humanism, consideration, freedom and, yes, solidarity.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1250	Madam President, I would like What Moberg would find difficult to know because he is unfortunately no longer alive. Incidentally, he is one of the very largest Swedish writers we have had in this country, perhaps the greatest of them all. At least he's one of my favorites. What is, however, a mockery – and it is important to point out – is the policy that the Center Party represents, the split policy the Center Party represents and the segregation Center Party has been involved in creating. It is a mockery, a mockery of the Swedish people and of all those who have toiled and dragged to create this extremely valuable, beautiful country and society. It is a mockery to break all this down with the policy of the Center Party. If the Center Party is allowed to continue, I am unfortunately convinced that what Sweden we are seeing today will only be a parenthesis in Swedish history. That is why I am here: to ensure that this does not happen and that your destructive policy must not continue for much longer.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1252	Madam President, I would like That is why I am here: to prevent this kind of rhetoric from destroying all that we have built up for generations in this country and which has made it rich and successful. I would like to conclude by responding to Mr Jomshof's claim that the Swedes would become a minority in their own country. What kind of nonsense is that, seriously? How are you seriously going to argue for such a thing in front of a broad public?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1254	Madam President, I would like It is no problem at all to argue for it, because it is facts. For a long time we have been able to see school after school where Swedish children are in a minority. Today there are several schools where there is not a single child with a Swedish background. These are general statistics. We can see in the suburbs after the suburbs that Swedes move away and that there are fewer and fewer Swedes. Not only are they in the minority, but they are disappearing completely. There are also things we can read about in the paper. So are statistics. We can see municipalities where the Swedes today are in a minority. It was not very many months since we received data indicating that in the three metropolitan regions, children and young people from Swedish backgrounds are soon in the minority.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1256	Madam President, I would like Today I enter this speaker's seat for the first time and want to talk about something that I deeply love, namely our dear Sweden. I'm really worried about where we're going and worried about which society we're leaving behind for future generations. Sweden is no longer what it has been, for good and for evil. In fact, everything was not better in the past, no matter what some would have us believe. There's always been trouble. Pensions weren't enough. There were abuses in health care and care. It was people who were victims of crime. There was a lack of resources for them needed it most. But there are also things that were probably better in the past. I am thinking above all of trust – trust in our democratic structures, trust in politicians, trust in the media, which is set to examine us, and above all trust in each other. Something has changed in our society. Despite a burning boom and a historically high level of prosperity, we are seeing growing concern among our citizens about the development that is taking place in our country and which is in deep danger of undermining confidence in our liberal democracy. It is a development that concerns me and that we politicians need to identify the causes and the solutions to. Sweden continues to face major challenges in the coming years. It is about the long-term financing of welfare and skills supply problems in several sectors. Hundreds of thousands of people are excluded from the labour market for various reasons, along with the social problems associated with this exclusion. Now it is time for us to roll up our sleeves and tackle the structural problems that fatten the erosion of the trust that has built Sweden strongly over the years. It is the same structural problem that feeds xenophobia, populism and nationalism. Success in this requires courage, endurance and, above all, leadership. Our duty to those who have chosen us is to listen, to take their concerns seriously and to make concrete proposals on how to keep our country together. For it is not too late yet to reverse the trend and narrow the gaps between the city and the country, between those who work and those who are outside, between those who have a home and those who desperately want to have a roof over their heads. We are all aware that there are major shortcomings in integration policy. It is sprawling, does not set high enough demands and is now a watershed that risks permanent feeling of I often say that everything is possible as long as you are willing to do the hard work needed to achieve the goal. Let us then be energetic and find broad agreements on four concrete areas that can help us to reverse the negative trend: The labour market, with the aim of increasing the supply of simpler jobs with lower thresholds 中 the housing market, so that we have mobility and tear down the walls and fences that we have managed to build ourselves 中 taxes, so that our companies can flourish and generate the jobs needed, as well as that it will pay off from subsidies to a first job with a little lower salary 中 migration policy, so that we can put an end to the temporary laws that divide our society and do not provide the transparency and long-termity on which a country's migration policy must be based. Madam President, I would like My speaking time is over for this time, but my commitment to Sweden will remain.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1270	Madam President, I would like Despite a good economic cycle and a high demand for labour, the division of labour markets has increased. We see a high unemployment rate for foreign born, while employers find it increasingly difficult to find labour. The fact that Sweden succeeds in integration policy and gets more people into work is crucial if we are to push back exclusion. It is absolutely crucial for the legitimacy of migration policy. Integration policies that make people dependent on benefits rather than participation in the labour market have profound consequences for the individual and society at large. We must have a policy that enables integration, with high demands on our own efforts. Increased efforts are needed to ensure that more people who have come to Sweden as quickly as possible learn the Swedish language and get a job with their own salary to live on. More flexible solutions are needed to better match skills with job vacancies. Sweden has poor results to lean against when it comes to creating the conditions for new arrivals to get to work. Arbetsförmedlingen, which has the most important government matching function, has not succeeded in its mission, and here a new thought and new solutions are needed. The Alliance therefore wants to close the Employment Service in its current form and dismantle the programmes and measures that do not lead to jobs. We want to introduce a new form of employment, an entry job, in which newcomers and young people without upper secondary school qualifications will be able to find a job more easily through a lower entry salary and the abolition of employers' contributions. We also want to increase the ceiling for the RUT deduction and broaden the deduction to include more services. Integration is more than a job. That is why I did not make this speech during yesterday's debate on labour market policy. But I can see that without jobs integration does not work. The Christian Democrats' starting point for integration policy is to give people the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives. The state should help to facilitate and create conditions – not kill its own drive through long waiting and passivity. We want to introduce integration from day one through access to and increased demands for participation in Swedish education, social orientation and work to receive funding. We want to improve Swedish education through an individual performance plan, increased tiering and more and better SFI providers that are replaced by results. The SFI must be much better adapted to and combined with relevant vocational training. A well-functioning integration, Madam President, requires certain social and valuation obligations. Those who have fled war and oppression and have come to our country should feel welcome to create a good life in freedom here and become part of the community. Of course, one should not leave one's legacy behind, but we must become better at marking what applies here and what values are not elective. We've been bad at this. We have not achieved the balance between tolerance and clarity. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to highlight the importance of civil society. It is in the voluntary associations that the values needed for a functioning society are acquired. This is where meetings arise, knowledge is transferred and the alien becomes familiar. That role can and should not be taken over by the state. On the other hand, we want to see a policy that protects and encourages civil society and in which the public should give support, with close follow-up, to the work that takes place on the basis of people's equal value and democratic principles. In the end, it is you and I who decide whether integration is real.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1279	Madam President, I would like The right to be in love is a matter of course for me and, I believe, the majority in here. But then came the meetings that made me realize that I have so much to value and take responsibility for. I have reflected myself in people who carry quite different experiences, whose lives are marked by total unfreedom and where infatuation and love are seen as the greatest threat to the family's honor. A girl described the family as the concierge of her sexuality. When she was 16, she fell in love with a schoolmate. Her cousin learned about it. The family's solution was to marry her to a much older man. Being in love was considered shameful and could damage the family's reputation and reputation. Madam President, I would like That girl will never forget the rape that the wedding night resulted in. It was a rape that the gatekeepers in her family both sanctioned and opened the door to. We have a joint responsibility to answer the questions that come from vulnerable children and young people. They grow up in the country where the rights are, but these never become part of their lives. Then I wonder: What do we say to the girl who was not allowed to play barber in preschool because the guardians made a clear demand that she had to wear a veil no matter what she expressed? What do we say to the girl who wanted to learn how to swim with her friends, but the guardians were frightened that their eight-year-old daughter would swim with boys? How is her trust affected when the school bows to the family's demands and adapts the teaching to their idea of what a girl may do and what a girl may not do above all? What do we respond to those who dared to defy, who fell in love and who are now not with us but are taken out of the country, even though many have signaled fear that this would happen? What do we say when a girl who has sought care for enormous abdominal pain caused by genital mutilation is urged to go home and talk to the guardians instead of receiving care? Why have we chosen to allow children to be viewed, assessed and treated according to different standards? Politics is and should be a forum where we make conflict areas visible on important societal issues. However, some policies require more of us. This is one of them. Here, the focus must be on the conflict that arises when guardians or others within the collective violate the law or deprive the child of its fundamental rights. Today, children have to prove a great deal in order to obtain the support and protection they are entitled to and need, while guardians have far from having the same requirement to refute the fact that the child has said that is not true. A change of perspective is required. We need to get a clear focus on the perspective of children's rights. The laws and rights that apply to everyone in Sweden are decided in this room. These are decisions that must never be reduced to a document that we are proud of in the big world but which does not reach the vulnerable child. To show that we are serious, we need to develop a national strategy against violence against children. It should be based on all the vulnerability that targets children, but the strategy must also focus on how the imbalance of power and conflicts of interest within a family affects the child and how it should be handled by authorities. I have met many children and young people who have not received the support and protection they are entitled to. As a politician, I will do everything in my power to ensure that children's rights never become empty symbols.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1291	Madam President, I would like I thought it was an interesting post by Juno Blom. In particular, I reacted to this: What do we say? Yes, what are we to answer? What is Juno Blom's response to all those affected by the Alliance's choosing to sit in the gallery for four years? I tried throughout the last parliamentary term to raise questions about child marriage, forced marriages and so on. But during all that time, the Liberals basically chose to sit in the gallery and let out the questions that the government was pushing. They did not take a stand or push for a law against child marriage or clear regulation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1292	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson! I myself have been in the investigation that was commissioned by the government to review that legislation. I was involved in the first inquiry into the drafting of legislation which I did not consider to be comprehensive at the time. There were gaps in the law. The children who came to Sweden and were in child marriage were not hit by that legislation. Now there has been a partial report and also a legislative proposal which closes the gaps in the law. The investigation that is now complete also has as its starting point that, just as we in the Liberals have pushed forward, a special child marriage crime is to be introduced. However, the fact that this investigation came about is that there has been political awareness and a demand for this to happen. For me, it's not about standing and barking about what one and the other did. The work on the question of honor was very much done by Nyamko Sabuni.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1295	Madam President, I would like The bill that is on the table today will not lead to anything in practice. Not approving child marriage on the part of the authorities will not really prevent a single child marriage. Child marriage does not take place with the goodwill of the authorities today. I was in the same investigation, actually. The proposals that come from there are far too bad.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1297	Madam President, I would like I think there are two different things we are talking about. When it comes to the children who come here and who are in child marriage, it is clear that Swedish authorities cannot prevent it, but if we make sure that we do not recognise them when they come to Sweden it can still affect. It's about the possibility of influencing so they don't have to get married on the run. As far as the special legislation on child marriage offences with less proof is concerned, I think absolutely so. Then, of course, all the measures to be taken are about preventing these marriages from ever occurring. I'm quite clear on that.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1299	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is working hard for refugees' rights both when we oppose other parties' proposals to abolish, for example, the right to asylum and when we fight to ensure that unaccompanied persons who have waited an unreasonable time for decisions will have a new chance to stay in Sweden. Our way of working has sometimes meant that we have created a more humane migration policy. Sometimes it has been about preventing or mitigating a more restrictive development. In recent years, Sweden has had temporarily stricter migration legislation. It came into being in a critical situation and was, on behalf of the Green Party, about preventing other parties from settling an even tougher policy. A decisive factor in the negotiations was that the law should be just temporary. Therefore, it automatically expires after three years, on 19 July 2019. Several parties have now gone to elections to make it permanent and even harder. The debate often puts forward arguments that Sweden cannot have legislation that is substantially different from the other countries in the EU and that the temporary restrictive rules should therefore remain in place until the EU has agreed on a common migration policy. This reasoning is based on completely incorrect assumptions. There is nothing in the proposals in the EU that will prevent Sweden from returning to granting a residence permit on the basis of extraordinary and particularly distressing circumstances or granting a residence permit to other persons in need of protection. What can be affected by the EU negotiations, however, is the possibility of issuing permanent residence permits. The Family Reunification Directive is not up for negotiation at all, and thus it is perfectly possible to return to the normal rules of Swedish migration legislation, which gives alternative protection-needed rights to be reunited with their families. Nor is it true that Sweden's legal framework would deviate significantly from that of other EU countries if we abolished the restrictions on the right to family reunification and the national grounds for residence permits – quite the contrary. An investigation that the Environmental Party has commissioned the parliamentary investigation service to do shows that, when it comes to family reunification rules for alternative protection, Sweden stands out by having a more restrictive regulatory framework than most EU Member States. There are 20 countries that also grant subsidiary protection-needed rights to be reunited. The study also shows that many other countries in the EU have the possibility to grant residence permits on humanitarian grounds. In 11 of the 25 countries covered by the EU's common migration policy, residence permits can be granted on humanitarian grounds. There are many examples of how important it is for Sweden to have more humane migration rules. Apathetic children do not get a residence permit with today's rules, and parents in Sweden worry day and night for their children who are left in refugee camps and with whom they cannot now be reunited. Recently, a young heart - diseased person was denied a heart transplant even though it was necessary for him to survive. A few days ago he died as a result of his illness, 29 years old. The humanitarian consequences of the temporary law are very great. The Red Cross has demonstrated this in a recent report, while it is highly unclear whether the purpose of the law has been achieved at all. The Green Party wants to work for humanism when the temporary migration legislation ends. We want to give families the right and the opportunity to reunite and secure the grounds for residence permits that enable those who are seriously ill or particularly vulnerable to stay. Especially young people with strong ties to Sweden need to be given the opportunity to stay to a greater extent. We should not strive to be mediocre when it comes to humanity. We should not allow Hungary to set the bar for how much we can handle. Not least in a future government, these issues will be settled. Sweden can't do everything, but it shouldn't stop us from doing what we can.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1312	Madam President, I would like Actually, it's been a few years since I went to elementary school, even if it may not look like that. It was in the so-called happy '80s. Then we read about children's marriages, which were apparently common in distant cultures somewhere on the other side of the world. We also read about female genital mutilation and that women were not allowed to show their hair to any man. All of this was something remote for us, something that was not here and would hardly touch us. After all, we lived in an open society where gender equality was an obvious foundation, although the wages of male-dominated and female-dominated jobs differed. But we would correct such differences. Our generation would build on the legacy of our parents, and we would pass on a perfect society to our children. We were the children of the world's richest and most equal country who went to the world's best school. What could go wrong? Madam President, I would like Apparently, most of it could go wrong. At least the society I have seen emerging is not the society I want to hand over to my children, and when I chose to engage politically in the Swedish Democrats in 2006, as I saw it, there was no alternative. As a father of three new children with three daughters, I am very concerned about how society has developed, especially for women – and this regardless of whether Sweden has had an alliance government or a socialist government. In 2014, I entered the Riksdag myself, and since then I have tried to push for change. Madam President, I would like The so-called feminist government that ruled was more interested in power games than in improving for young women. It is also its action, or rather its lack of action, that led us to read recently that it is believed that as many as 30 girls from Gothenburg may have been married away just this summer. The change in the law on child marriage that the previous government finally presented, having pushed the issue before it throughout its term of office, is nothing more than a blow to the air. Rhetorically, we are talking about a total ban on child marriage, but in reality it is only a restriction in civil records so that children are not registered as married. There is no punishment for anyone who chooses to ignore the census and continue to be married to a child. There is no punishment at all for those who choose to ignore Swedish rules against child marriage, even though we in this House have agreed that we do not think that children should be married. Ideally, I would go further and introduce the 24-year rule that in Denmark has been very successful in preventing young women from being forced into marriage. Denmark has seen young girls training longer and getting good jobs instead of being married away to cousins and friends in their parents' home countries. But when the government now deposed was to investigate how women could avoid getting married away, the investigation was instructed to look at other countries and not Denmark. Madam President, I would like I hope that this term of office will not be four more years lost but that we will actually do something for young women's rights, for real.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1321	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, when I, as an opponent of prayer eutrope, debate this, I often encounter the objection that we have freedom of religion in Sweden. But freedom of religion, alone or with others, does not mean that we should have to listen to recurring and institutionalized creeds that are shouted directly into our homes through loudspeakers. However, what I am stuck with in the prayer debates is that everyone seems to agree that freedom of religion is something absolutely central and important, and that is very gratifying. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that I would like to highlight the issue of Christian refugees and converts. I think it is unpleasantly quiet when we are told over and over again that Christian refugees and converts are being persecuted here in our own country, here where freedom of religion is so cherished by all kinds of debaters and political colours. If freedom of religion is so important, it is time to allow silence to be replaced by a clear commitment to change the reality in which many Christian refugees and converts are forced to live. They fled here to Sweden, and here they are forced to continue to flee. We see a serious development in our society. The Crime Prevention Council, Brå, notes in its hate crime report that the crisis-phobic hate crimes are increasing significantly in Sweden. Last year, in a report on religiously motivated persecution of Christian refugees in Sweden, the mission organization Open Doors showed that almost half had been threatened with death, that the persecution was widespread, that most did not report to the police because of fear and that many of those persecuted were just converts. The report also showed that the perpetrators were mostly migrants themselves. This is totally unacceptable. It is a failure that people who here in Sweden have been given protection from war and persecution take the liberty of exposing other people to both crimes and violations of religious freedom. These people, I think, should be transferred immediately, and I think that this kind of hate crime should also lead to an expulsion decision. Madam President, I would like As a Christian Democrat, I think it must be absolutely clear that we never accept persecution here in Sweden, that against this we have a zero tolerance that is to be trusted. It is difficult, I think, to find a more concrete example in which our freedom of religion is de facto excluded than in the case of Christian refugees and converts. All refugees, including those with a Christian faith, have the right to feel safe in Sweden. Let us never look between our fingers on hate, and let us never accept hate as an inevitable feature of yours and mine, in our Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1329	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament and the audience! Sweden has language gaps. We have a language segregation and a knowledge segregation. In Sweden we are talking about equal Sweden. We often talk about equal outcomes, but we never talk about equal opportunities. Madam President, I would like We could divide this chamber in the middle. The right hand side would be those who receive upper secondary school qualifications while the left side would not finish the Swedish school with upper secondary school qualifications. Now you may wonder what I'm talking about. Well, it is very common in our vulnerable exclusion areas, for example at Hjällboskolan in Gothenburg, that year after year every other student goes out with incomplete grades. We can also take examples from suburbs to Stockholm and Malmö. But now it is no longer only in the big cities, but it is also in the old mills. And what do they have in common? Yes, they are children with foreign parents. I myself, for example, do not speak Swedish as my native language. Swedish was the eighth language my mother learned. For that matter, she is linguistic, but it was still the eighth language she learned. Today I can speak four languages fluently and understand a fifth. I was torn between the Swedish, the Armenian and the Persian, because we Armenians are from Iran. This meant that my mother could not equip me in the same way that the parents of my Swedish classmates could. Then we ask ourselves time and again how it is that crime takes over in these areas. If the parents of these children do not enter Swedish society in the form of work, education or language, the children will inherit their parents' exclusion, i.e. that Swedish school produces the exclusion we see today. Then I am talking not only about those who have just arrived here but about children who are Swedes but have a different background. If they are met by a school that does not make demands, which is constantly dwindling and does not have expectations of them, and if they are not equipped in the same way as their Swedish classmates, then you do not have to be a genius to figure out that their chances of succeeding in Swedish society is significantly less. Madam President, I would like This debate can be extended, and you will hear me talking over the next four years about equal opportunities, not an equal outcome. It is about children with foreign parents being as good as their Swedish classmates when they sit the first day in the school class, i.e. already from preschool. That is why I am pleased that we from the Alliance want a compulsory language preschool for children of all new arrivals from the age of three. I would like to extend this a little further, but I have to make sure that my party can push for such a policy development. We cannot have a Swedish school that leaves behind the children of the suburbs. They have not chosen that their parents should come from other countries or have a language other than the language we speak in Sweden. Swedish is the language in which they will be educated. Swedish is the language that will take them to their work. It is through the Swedish language that they will come into entrepreneurship. Sweden needs a new government, and an alliance government is probably the one that will be most tolerated in this House.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1337	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Arin. You raised incredibly important issues, which are that we live in a very segregated society, that not everyone has the same conditions and that we need a more equal school. One of the most acute problems in school now is that it looks very different, which means that not everyone gets the same conditions for a good life. Therefore, I wonder why the Moderates want to cut the school budget and vote against proposals to break school segregation, most recently this spring. How come you say you want to improve the opportunity for people to qualify for high school and improve the opportunities for a more equal school while you want to reduce resources to it?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria, for your line! It is not that Swedish school has a lack of money. Your solution is every time more money. We have a school where it's mess and disorder. You don't have the language from home. It is important to make clear demands. In our schools in the suburbs, there is often a lack of demands. One is torn between two cultures, that is, the new Sweden and what the parents brought with them. There's no more money in the solution. The solution is clear expectations, clear demands, that you go an extra hour in school and to enhance the Swedish language. You can spend as much money as you want, but if you don't make the right demands and take the right measures, you won't get anywhere. Your solution is always more money. If the solution had been more money, the Moderates would have suggested it too. Then we would not have had this debate and the problems that we see today.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1344	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Moderate proposals are cuts in school but clear demands. I hope that will help, but I think the proposals we have are much more important. The school commission has worked out what is required for a more equal school. The efforts we want to make this term together with you are to give students previous support, so that they do not lag behind, and to break school segregation so that everyone gets the right conditions.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1346	Madam President, I would like Maria Ferm can call it what she wants and cutbacks. But how do you spend the money most effectively? In my speech, it was about having a compulsory language preschool for children of new arrivals at the age of three, so that when they arrive at six years old, happy with their green or pink hats – what colour it is for that year – they will be as good in Swedish as their Swedish classmates. This is how you can also get into Swedish society and not feel left out, because then it is your own efforts that will determine your own future.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1348	Madam President, I would like A normal Sunday evening in a city in Sweden, a woman walks past the commonplace in the apartment building where she lives. She hears strange noises and screams from inside the hall. What meets her when she opens the door is a terrible sight. On the floor in the middle of the room is a little girl naked. All around her are men and women. Some hold the little girl and hold her legs apart. The men read prayers in a foreign language, and an elderly lady sits borderline over the girl. The woman understands that they are in the process of sexually stifling the defenseless baby. She's calling for them to stop and for her to call the police. She will then be threatened by the men who are trying to take her phone. The woman chooses to flee the scene before she calls 911. When the police arrive, the elderly lady and the little girl have disappeared, and none of the local adults want to know that something illegal has happened. The memory of this horrendous event will remain with the woman for a long time, but for the little girl it is something she is forced to carry with her for the rest of her life. The betrayal that children experience when adults they trust instead of resorting to them has lifelong consequences. The physical pain will be regularly reminded, but the mental pain will probably be constantly present. What happened to the perpetrators? Nothing. The investigation was closed for lack of evidence. Madam President, I would like When the now deposed government took office in autumn 2014, it was announced that it was a feminist government, but despite the fact that the law against genital mutilation has been in place since 1982, only three people have been convicted of the crime. It is quite clear that the law is not effective and that the measures taken before it by the so-called feminist government and governments have not been sufficient. In 2015, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare estimated that there were up to 38,000 female genital mutilations in Sweden, but Sweden has since then continued to have a high level of immigration from areas where female genital mutilation is accepted, which means that the number is probably much higher. A SVT article from June 2017 claims that the figures from the National Board of Health and Welfare are grossly underestimated. The darker number is of course great, and these girls often suffer in the quiet. There is only one clinic in the whole country that specializes in the care of women who are sexually mutilated. That, of course, is not acceptable given the large number of girls who have been subjected to this crime and who continue to be subjected to it. The sweat will in some sense double. My expectation of the coming government is that it will take a strong stance against this type of barbaric stone age rites and ensure that we take the necessary measures to stop genital mutilation in Sweden in real life. It is the duty of every decent government to ensure that children affected by genital mutilation receive the help and support they need and that those who commit these terrible abuse on children are put behind bars. Everything else is unworthy of a country like Sweden.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1356	Madam President, I would like In today's Sweden, a quarter of a million people live in the oppression of honour, and then the number of darkness is enormous. The Swedish Democrats are the party that takes this issue very seriously. We have therefore legislated that crimes of honour committed should be punished more harshly. I myself have Kurdish origin and have grown up in the suburbs of Stockholm. I have therefore had the culture of honor close to my childhood. Among other things, cousin marriages, arranged marriages, and circumcision are common in my Kurdish family. When I was a kid, I was tipped off about a cousin of mine as a future husband. But what is often forgotten about honorary culture is the control of the daughter in the family — everything from dress and association to body hair and more. All of this is a form of oppression — a way of ruling. I'm against everything about genital mutilation, circumcision, arranged marriages and marriages between cousins and so on. There is nothing honorable about cutting off healthy body parts in newborn babies. Nor is there any honor in forcing their daughters to live their lives with someone they do not love. There is nothing honorable in being forced to marry one's relatives. On the contrary, it is more honorable to protect your family and those you care about and let them live the life they want to live. Today, unfortunately, there are many who live in pressure of honour, and many young people themselves say that they are not able to choose their partners freely. Young people feel that their relatives and friends expect their partners to have the same religion and origin as themselves. The pressure on these young people is enormous, from several different directions. It's not just about the immediate family, it's about the whole community and everyone that these young people have a relationship with. Without going into details about my relationship with the people during my childhood, it was common for girls to be subjected to honor-related oppression. They were controlled to the extreme. Your own body did not decide when you became a woman, but it decided the parents. I saw this happening then, and it still exists in Sweden. Sweden needs to be better at informing and monitoring that those who come to our country comply with Swedish rules and laws. We need higher standards to become Swedish citizens. We also need to legislate on more stringent penalties for honour-related crimes in real life. In Sweden, Swedish rules and laws shall apply.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1362	Madam President, I would like If it wants to be really bad, 2018 can go to the history of the year when Sweden began the transformation from a classical western democracy to a system that is more similar to what exists today in traditional multicultural countries. What is a little sloppyly referred to as clan voices has been very noticed since the election, and it is therefore important that we in the Swedish Parliament take on board the research that exists in this area. Paul Collier, Professor of Economics at Oxford University and Director of the Centre for the Study of African Economics, has in several books, but above all one named Wars, Gun, and Votes, touched on the question of how democracy and the electoral movement function in traditional multicultural societies. The overall conclusion is that multicultural countries tend to favour ethnically rather than ideologically based political parties, which then have a number of consequences. First of all, questions of substance, as we understand the concept, become meaningless because campaigns only aim to gather power around their own group. Since a government's chances of re-election are then completely decoupled from the ability to implement reforms, the quality of public administration does not improve. On the contrary – since government power depends on the position of a particular party as representative of a particular ethnic group, the party can only choose to favour its own group through corruption or to be replaced by another party that does so. Studies show that other vital aspects such as community trust, public service and the limitation and scrutiny of public power are significantly impaired by ethnically based political parties. Madam President, I would like In the 2018 elections, a number of candidates won their seats through ethnically based personal election campaigns, without – as I have seen – pursuing any substantive issues at all. A local politician with Muslim background was found trying to sell the entire congregation's voting stock in exchange for building permits for a mosque. An imam urged his assembly to vote for the Social Democrats or the Green Party, unclear in exchange for what. In addition, the Social Democrats have been running an ethnically based campaign in the hidden, at least since 1999, when the party concluded a cooperation agreement with representatives of so-called Muslim civil society, about votes in exchange for influence over the state administration. In other words, there is no doubt that some parties in this Assembly have taken the first step in this transformation. Madam President, I would like A totally irresponsible migration policy and a blind belief in multiculturalism have long caused social division and exclusion, fueled religious fundamentalism and helped build clan structures, honorary oppression and so-called vulnerable areas. If we in the Swedish Parliament do not start to think again now, this process can soon begin to break down the whole democratic system as well. Let us hope that more parties than ours will come to their senses before that happens.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1369	Madam President, I would like I think Mr Aspling's speech is interesting because I myself am a purely academic historian. When I study our history, I know we've had a four-chamber holiday. Above all, you can see this if you go to a room just outside the Chamber where the paintings of the Presidents of the Four Chambers Day hang. No matter how you turn and turn that period, you had a rather typical voting, not in relation to ideas, but rather in relation to class. If we look at much of the political history of the 20th century, we may consider it class-oriented. The workers' movement mobilized the voters of the labour movement, and my party, the Christian Democrats, should have some over-representation among Christian voters both today and historically. When you as Ludvig Aspling lift in the concept of ethnicity or clan concept, I wonder what the great difference it is between class and clan. In both cases, it is a group that one might want to protect.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1372	Madam President, I would like Unlike Magnus Jacobsson, I'm not a historian. I'm not nearly as familiar with the era in Swedish history that he talks about. But what I mean when I talk about ethnically based parties are parties that call for sympathy voting based on ethnicity instead of ideological affiliation, that is: vote for me because I belong to the same ethnic minority or the same ethnic group as you, not because I represent ideas that you think will make society better for everyone. That's the big difference. If it worked in the same way in the example mentioned earlier by Magnus Jacobsson, it may be so. Otherwise, I can take the line in agreement with what I wanted to say with my speech.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1374	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am most curious about what is Ludvig Aspling's normal situation, because I would like to say, strictly historically and academically, that the normal situation is that you vote for someone you perceive represent your own interest. That voting can mean having an economic interest, a religious interest, or an ethnic interest. Swedes in the United States looked at the 19th and 20th centuries to benefit themselves by trying to support each other. I don't really fully understand Ludvig Aspling's question. Or are the Christian Democrats, in his opinion, some kind of ethnic-religiously classed party?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1376	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to make myself a spokesperson for the Christian Democrats. I leave that with a warm hand to Magnus Jacobsson. I hope, however, that you will not tread in this swamp, because ethnically based politics is the gutter of democracy. It does not belong in Sweden. As I mentioned in my speech, it will weaken trust, public services and the whole democratic system.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1379	Madam President, I would like A housing shortage exists in Sweden, and the consequences are hard on primarily low and middle income earners in a large majority of Sweden's 290 municipalities. The income gap has increased in Sweden since the 1990s, and the rescheduling or rather the dismantling of a functioning housing policy also occurred in the early 1990s. The re-examination of housing policy was certainly necessary in itself, but the re-examination was a phase-out since the old policy was not effectively replaced by a new one. Madam President, I would like It is precisely the absence of an active housing policy that has put us in the situation we are now in. During the previous term of office, the Government of Löfven carried out a number of reforms to strengthen housing construction, in particular regarding affordable and sustainable rental apartments. In my municipality of residence, Alingsås, the utility housing company Alingsåshem has been successful in building affordable apartments in passive house standard based on Sabos's framework purchased combo houses. There is now a need for a long-term vision of the reforms introduced during the last parliamentary term, and further reforms are needed to achieve a sustainable pace of new production. However, there are right-wing parties now putting forward ideas about market rents as a proposal for a solution to the housing shortage. Madam President, I would like Market rents as a political idea will never solve the housing shortage. Rather, it will reinforce the bias between the property owned and the rental right, but it will also reduce the consumption space for 3 million tenants. Many of these are low and middle wage earners. This would happen because the introduction of market rents would mean substantial rent increases for virtually all tenants. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, this has a distributional effect that we can never accept. We now need to build at least 45 000 new homes a year by 2030. The absolute majority of these need to be rental apartments. We need to dismiss the idea that market rents would be the solution and establish that the utility value system should be maintained. Madam President, I would like We also need to recognise that public housing companies are an important tool for increasing housing construction. In the municipalities that we Social Democrats are in charge of, we will protect and develop the public housing companies. We also need to strengthen the position of tenants in the housing market, with clearer requirements for information and consultation even with tenants in the case of renovations. This increases the security of the tenant and reduces the risk of disputes between landlord and tenant. The next major step is to continue developing housing policies to remove thresholds that prevent many groups from entering the housing market. This requires long-term agreements and agreements on reforms with a clear distribution policy focus. This is particularly true in the area of taxation. The housing shortage, one of the most important challenges of this parliamentary term, must be met with a developed and socially sustainable housing policy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1388	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Joakim Järrebring not only to the parliamentary debate but also to the civil committee where we work together on housing policy. I could agree with some of Joakim Järrebring's comments, such as the fact that it is an inactive housing policy that has led us to where we are now. The only problem is that it is his party friends who have represented this inactive housing policy. Despite the worst housing crisis in decades, Madam President, no government in modern times has done so little and made as few proposals as the current one to increase housing construction in Sweden. In addition, when the government took office, a strong increase in housing construction was inherited from the Alliance. Now they are handing over a sharp drop in construction. I would like to hear Joakim Järrebring's reflections on this. What went wrong under the government's Löfven?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1392	Madam President, I would like Mats Green did not really listen to my speech. I have just reported that, since the 1990s, we have had a lack of active housing policy. The Government of Löfven has implemented a number of reforms that are good. We need to stimulate increased housing production. Above all, it applies to rental apartments that people can afford to live in. Right now, demand for expensive flats is decreasing. Unfortunately, this does not lead to real estate companies building leases. Instead, they wait for the possibility of building residential apartments when demand increases again. The housing shortage is about the lack of housing that ordinary people with regular income can afford to live in. Why would real estate companies that, for reasons of profitability, would not want to build cheap rental apartments if they could charge higher rents and profits by building expensive rental apartments? This is a question that Mats is happy to answer.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1396	Madam President, I would like We from the Alliance's parties went into the housing policy discussions with the ambition to do as much as possible to facilitate construction across the board in Sweden. The two government parties, who fought quite a lot internally, were more inclined to do as little as possible. This is, of course, the last thing we need in Sweden's housing crisis. There is not a single simplification that the government could have proposed that we would not have been in favour of. Nevertheless, the government has shone its absence in terms of proposals for more housing, in particular more cheap rental apartments.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1397	Madam President, I would like Now I may not share the view that it is precisely regulatory simplification that is the most important or the only solution. But the housing shortage is actually our absolute greatest social problem. We have to get to grips with that; there we are united. It is easy, as the Moderates do, to criticise the state subsidies we have, such as investment support, and to remove it from the state toolbox. But what are your own proposals, in addition to regulatory simplifications, to stimulate increased housing construction?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1398	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by underlining a fundamental insight. Just as Joakim and I agreed here before, the housing crisis is now one of our biggest societal challenges, both for individuals and for society at large. It is no longer enough just to fine-tune the margins. We must dare to change the basic foundations of housing policy across the board. The possibility of having a home of your own is the foundation of so much. Similarly, problems with the structure and supply of the housing market become a huge societal challenge, perhaps the biggest. Madam President, I would like Sweden's growth, opportunities for companies, opportunities for individuals, integration and security problems are just a few things that are affected and determined by housing policy. If, as in Sweden, a government that has for four years neglected the possibilities of housing policy, it is no wonder that a number of problems have not been alleviated but have been allowed to worsen. Integration has hardly been facilitated during the previous term of office. Here an active housing policy would have been a key key. Swedish companies' opportunities to develop and attract the right skills to Sweden have hardly improved. The supply of housing and the functioning of the housing market is also a key element here. Growth per capita in Sweden is lowest across the EU. A dysfunctional housing market that a government indirectly accepts is hardly something that facilitates growth and development. Segregation and insecure districts is a growing problem in Sweden. The right housing policy can of course contribute to safer urban environments and less segregation. Here too, however, the inaction of housing policy has contributed to the continuing and worsening of the problems. Madam President, I would like It is clear that housing policy affects the whole of Swedish society. The first job and the first home go hand in hand and presuppose each other. An interaction between the housing and labour markets is essential for continued growth and increased well-being and to succeed in the fight against exclusion. Sweden must have more housing. It's never been more important. The housing market, particularly in growth regions, has provided double locks for both young and foreign born. They do not have enough queue time to get an older and cheaper rent, and newly produced is often too expensive. At the same time, they normally have a small capital, which shuts them out of the large market for owned housing. Today we have a dysfunctional housing market. For too long, political regulations of various kinds have made it difficult for people both to own their housing and to have access to a rental agreement. The most remarkable thing, given today's housing crisis, is that the Government Löfven abdicated from its responsibility to create the conditions for increased housing construction. Proposals for more housing have shone with their absence for four years. And as I said before, Madam President, despite the worst housing crisis in 50 years, no previous government has delivered so few proposals to increase housing construction. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new government. Sweden needs an alliance government.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1406	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Green for his speech. I can't quite understand the Moderates' policy on housing. Statistics from, for example, Tenants' Association clearly show that many municipalities have lost tenancy rights. Stockholm is also on this list. In Stockholm, 22,000 new rental apartments were built between 2000 and 2016. However, 89,000 rental apartments were converted into flats. Net was less than 66,000 rents. At the same time, the Moderates want to counteract the housing shortage. In Stockholm, the Moderates, together with the rest of the Alliance and the Environmental Party, have chosen to at least signal that they are thinking of reshaping and selling the remaining leases. What are you thinking? How will it counteract the housing shortage?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1408	Madam President, I would like Which municipalities have converted the most rental apartments in recent years? They are municipalities such as Botkyrka, Gothenburg, Malmö and Luleå – municipalities where the Left Party has ruled together with the Social Democrats for a very long time. Why, then, have the red majorities in these municipalities converted rental apartments? In fact, they have done so for quite the right reasons. Because they have wanted to get to grips with exclusion. What distinguishes alienation areas? I am one of those born and raised in one. Yeah, there's only rents. A mix of tenure forms has been sought and the housing made possible in the lives of these people. That's why you've redesigned rental apartments. Perhaps it is I who should ask the question: Why have the red-green majorities, including the Left Party, transformed the most rents in Sweden in the last four years?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1411	Madam President, I would like The statistics are very clear. Stockholm is one of the areas where most rental apartments have been converted into residential apartments. Today it is the Alliance and the Environmental Party that govern Stockholm. You are now signaling that you are going to reshape the rentals that are left to tenant-owners and sell them. If Mats Green thinks the dwelling is a right, how can this in any way ensure that people who do not have housing can get housing with reasonable rents in Stockholm?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1412	Madam President, I would like I and my alliance colleagues believe that the home is a right. That is precisely why we have a housing policy worthy of the name. This is also why we delivered more housing than ever before during the time we had government responsibility in Sweden. It is thus red majorities that have transformed most rental apartments in the last period in Sweden. The new majority in Stockholm will now do the same. It is again a question of getting mixed tenure forms in our alienation areas. It's just how we eradicate the alienation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1414	Madam President, I would like During the last term of office, I have been a spokesperson for housing policy. At the same time, when you start a new term of office, you can take the opportunity to sum up the period that has been. For example, we have seen unsuccessful housing policy talks between the government and the Alliance. There have been housing policy talks where the Swedish Democrats were never invited to discuss such important issues. There were also discussions that did not lead to any major changes as both parties in that situation could not find out how to get the housing policy in place in Sweden. We have seen a government with a poor spirit of reform. It was a government that, together with the Alliance, made very few proposals to bring about a concrete change in this so important area. On the other hand, we have seen many desperate, hasty and bad proposals from the government supported by the Alliance which was produced during the parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like During our term of office, we have also experienced extremely high asylum pressure on Sweden. We had 163 000 asylum seekers in Sweden in 2015. This was the term when the government solved this situation by pitching tent camps in the Swedish cold. It was during that term that we saw at the same time that the vulnerable areas were increasing in Sweden. Madam President, I would like MSB, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, warned during the period of high asylum pressure in Sweden that important social functions were not able to cope with the effort. The government also noted that the situation posed a serious threat to public order and internal security in addition to the strong efforts we saw at school, health care, economics and general welfare. It was during that term of office that we saw that the Boverket Agency made proposals to provide housing for all these asylum seekers. It proposed a rental income guarantee for those who chose to rent out and reward them with immigrant backgrounds that came to Sweden. It was a bonus to private landlords, real estate companies and the commons who primarily chose to rent out to new arrivals before Swedish citizens. It was a national apartment pool where it would be mandatory to register for vacant apartments. It would facilitate second-hand rental in tenant-ownerships and thus go against the possibility that the board has to influence it. There are a number of deteriorations in the area of housing policy that have taken place during the term of office. We have seen the introduction of fixed-term building permits. This means looking up simpler housing that can stand up to 15 years, i.e. during a youth's lifetime. We have seen proposals implemented by the Instructions Act, which obliges municipalities to accept asylum seekers and arrange housing for them. This means that municipalities have also been forced to give priority to people with immigrant backgrounds in the housing queue. Houses and villas have been bought to arrange housing. A number of exceptions have been introduced in the PBL in order to facilitate the development of more refugee housing in the event that we face the same situation as we did in 2015 in Sweden. We have experienced a number of different deteriorations in Sweden during the term of office in the area of housing policy. I hope now that during this parliamentary term we will be able to bring about a change so that we will not see four years of further deterioration.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1425	Madam President, I would like A broad and cross-block agreement on housing policy is something everyone is talking about. However, few have wanted to put forward concrete proposals in the election debate for fear of taking on criticism. Instead, labels have been glued to the lots in which we do not recognize ourselves. Everyone agrees that something needs to be done, but not what. Most people already live, and they are quite satisfied. It is when you need to move or get your first home that the problems arise. Housing policy debate, Madam President, often ends up at the intersection between those who have and those who lack housing, but it affects everyone. The housing shortage affects the whole community. When many have to turn down places of education, the young generation is prevented from realizing dreams of education, employment and career that may break the family's tradition of study. The labour market will then be deprived of opportunities for renewal. When there is no housing, young people seek their way away from their home country while the elderly remain, with poorer service and impoverished and unattractive countryside. If young people do not receive housing, they may remain at their parents' home. When companies cannot find and recruit staff in a locality, they cannot grow. If they want to, they may have to move away from the locality, or even worse seek their way away from Sweden. It is crucial for our competitiveness that the business community can attract and hire the best. Madam President, I would like Later in life, when you become lonely and are no longer able to live in the house where you shared your life with someone, you will experience loneliness while perhaps needing more help. Then there needs to be safe and small apartments with community close, where you stay healthy longer. Without accommodation alternatives in segregated areas, exclusion is diluted and we have a situation such as the one we have in the 23 particularly vulnerable areas, with insecurity, vandalism, crime and unemployment. There are exceptions. I would like to mention Gårdsten and Falkagård, who have turned the development of housing policy into a tool. With the previous government, we have had a situation in which, despite huge needs, we have had a falling rate of construction, rising housing prices in some areas and falling in others. The cleavage of Sweden is visible on the housing market. Mobility is low. The lock-in affects those with low incomes, young people, newly formed or separated families, the elderly, new arrivals and those who do not have money in the bank. Madam President, I would like The construction companies are now testifying that first-time buyers have disappeared from the market. Many are the companies that have just invested in new series houses that are now wondering who can buy their products that everyone is asking for. It is cheap, climate-smart and functional housing for small and large households with normal incomes. Many are concerned about a housing bubble, and large construction companies are warning profit. Despite the construction subsidies, many people stand outside and are referred to overcrowding and to the illegal black market where there is no property protection and sometimes no apartment. There it is market forces that govern. You have to pay usury prices for a flat with low standards. Housing policy calls must get to the bottom of problems that have arisen through a regulated lease arrangement where it is in practice the Tenant Association that decides whether or not to build rental apartments. This and taxation on the sale of housing mean that mobility is low. In a tax review, a reduction in interest rebates must be discussed. It must go faster, be less costly and more predictable to drive a plan from sketch to moving in. The regulatory framework must be the same throughout the country. There is a need for more land and more market.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1437	Madam President, I would like The right to housing is enshrined in both the UN Convention on Human Rights and the Swedish Constitution. Now is the time to live up to the law. A new housing policy is needed to meet the challenges we face in terms of housing shortages, housing segregation and climate change. It is a housing policy that takes responsibility for building up housing shortages, breaking housing segregation and reducing the climate impact of the housing sector. This requires a housing policy with higher ambitions where the state and municipalities take greater responsibility than today. Madam President, I would like Today, housing shortages exist in a majority of the country's municipalities. The lack of housing limits people's freedom and ultimately the development of society. In particular, there is a lack of affordable rental apartments, which the market is unable to build on its own. The housing shortage will be removed with a policy of increased housing construction with a focus on environmentally friendly rentals with reasonable rents. This requires that the state take greater responsibility for financing and that municipalities take greater responsibility for housing provision for everyone regardless of income. Government housing policy was dismantled in the 1990s. Subsidies and state interference have been replaced by market-driven housing construction. The State has come back in favour of the market. Special solutions for low-income people, known as social housing, are highlighted by an increasing number as a way of solving the housing shortage for those who cannot afford to buy a home. Bostaden has gone from being a joint project to a private matter and from a social right to an investee in a market. The result is clear, Madam President. It has been built too little, too slowly and too expensive for a long time. Now the demand for these homes is falling. However, the need for new housing, especially rental apartments, is still very high. The unilateral interest in profit in the market, rather than social responsibility, has once again proved to stand in the way of solving the housing shortage for a number of citizens. Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that housing is a social right and that housing policy should therefore be a fundamental part of general welfare policy. The housing shortage limits people's ability to take a job, study and be established in Swedish society. This has a negative impact on individual freedom, economic growth and the development of society. This leads to increased gaps and segregation. Housing policy needs to take a new direction with a relevant housing policy objective – a goal that is in line with the wording of the government form. We need to recreate a state housing policy worthy of the name which is active and comprehensive and which follows the principle of general welfare. The Left Party is seeking a cohesive housing market in which everyone, regardless of income, is guaranteed good housing with good standard at reasonable cost. Madam President, I would like A housing policy objective is needed to enable everyone to live in good housing at reasonable cost and in a stimulating and secure environment within a sustainable framework. The housing and housing environment should be based on people's needs, contribute to equal conditions and, in particular, promote good growth for children and young people. In planning, construction and management, ecological, economic and social sustainable development must be the basis for the activities. A policy with different types of special solutions for large groups contradicts this. The Left and the Red-Green Government have already taken several important steps along the way, but more needs to be done.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1446	Madam President, I would like It is perhaps a bit bold to have a debate with Momodou Malcolm Jallow, who is a new Member and who represents a party that we do not think should have too much influence on the policy pursued. Nevertheless, the construction subsidies are one thing the Left Party has demanded and got through. 80,000 homes a year, Boverket estimates that we would need to build to catch up with the housing shortage. Sixty-five thousand homes we built when we built the most. Today, the level of projections is around 35 000 dwellings. Despite extensive subsidies, we do not achieve the construction objectives. Instead, housing construction is falling. My question to Momodou Jallow is therefore: how many billions of taxpayers' money does the Left Party think should be needed to achieve housing policy goals?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1449	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Ola, for your question! As I said at the end of my speech, together with the Red-Green Government, we have made quite good efforts. But that's not enough. We have to do more. Many of the construction companies that are building today build expensive homes. It is therefore important to subsidise and to have the resources to provide investment aid. But we also want to make it possible to pay salaries for small and small construction companies. So we can make it easier for them to build and reduce costs. It is something that we have been pushing over the last four years. It is also something that we will continue to push to ensure that there are resources to help construction companies build more, but also cheaply and at reasonable prices.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1451	Madam President, I would like One of the major obstacles to adequate construction is the lack of land to build on. There are rules that remove land from the possibility of being built. We have a situation in which we can see that despite the construction subsidies, newly produced dwellings are not particularly cheap. We need mobility that frees the small apartments – the apartments that people on normal incomes can afford to live in. The problem is the lack of mobility, which has to do with the leasing system.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1453	Madam President, I would like I totally agree with you, Ola, that what's being built is too expensive. We agree on that. In recent years, many new dwellings have been built, mainly expensive dwellings and rental apartments. As you say, it's housing that half the population can't afford. That is why demand has declined. It is not about the fall in demand for cheap housing, but it is the demand for the expensive housing that has been built over the last four years that has fallen. That's why we have to change the way we think.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1455	Madam President, I would like Bostaden is one of the most central and important parts of a well-functioning society. A well-functioning housing market contributes to more jobs and to people being able to move to where they want to live, live where they like to live and make their dreams come true. It is not only from the perspective of freedom of choice that the dwelling is important. It is also important from the perspective of having a home that you can call your own and to be able to close and have your own place. Unfortunately, today is not the case for everyone. The Swedish housing market has become a patchwork of faults and problems that do not seem to have a simple solution. For example, the waiting period is very long for a tenancy. In Stockholm, people on average need to stand in line for eight to ten years to get a chance to live. In Gothenburg it is between four and seven years. For young people, this makes it difficult to leave home. Having an adapted home based on your own needs is very difficult because the market is sluggish. Increasingly tough amortisation requirements and higher demands from banks stop them with lower, but rising, income from obtaining mortgages. At the same time as more and more flats have been produced, it has become increasingly difficult to ask for them. We can't have that. The problems then continue through the life cycle of the housing market. The so-called migration taxes reduce the incentives to adapt the housing situation according to how life is shaped: from single-family to cohabiting to family and then adapted housing. In each step, large tax cases are often released. This is not least a problem for the elderly, who instead of selling the far too large dwelling and moving into a better adapted accommodation chooses to stay, usually in isolation. We cannot do this in the long term, but we need a substantial reform of housing policy. The Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for another, more flexible housing policy. We want to enable younger people to move away from home and create their own life. We have proposals to increase mobility in the housing market, for housing for every event in life and for a better, more social life in the elderly. That is why we have proposed a subsidised housing saving for young people. More people will be encouraged to save for their accommodation. We want the cap on deferred sales tax to be removed if you buy a new dwelling. The payment of the interest on the deferral should also be deferred upon purchase of a new dwelling. In this way, the profits of sales are not forced up to taxation, which means that a large part of the lack of mobility caused by moving taxes can be eliminated, and more housing can be freed up. The Christian Democrats want it to be possible to take the step to the owned housing market. With inspiration from our own homes, we want people with regular income to be able to build homes with the help of start-up loans, housing savings and changed rules for land leaseholds. Older people's opportunities for adapted housing need to be increased. Therefore, we propose incentives for municipalities to increase the number of shelters and later retirement homes so that more elderly people can have a safe living with community and avoid loneliness. The Christian Democrats will be a constructive and good interlocutor to bring about a change, but we should agree that mixed living in areas is the best way to reduce segregation and make it possible to change the form of living but still stay in their area.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1465	Madam President, I would like I am proud and grateful to live in Sweden. It is one of the world's most developed countries in terms of democracy, gender equality, public transparency and other things that we associate with a modern society. Progress is in many ways in the right direction, but challenges are not lacking. One of them is an embarrassing remnant from the feudal community in the 17th century. It is about the right, or rather the lack of right, for farmers to buy out the farms which have been inhabited, built up and used for generations under noble guardianship. This is out-of-date and embarrassing for Sweden. No other country in the Nordic countries allows this freedom. The issue has been discussed here in the Swedish Parliament for a long time. In 1989 a decision was taken by a large majority to abolish this embarrassment. It was a decision that raised the hopes of new generations of tenants. However, a later investigation concluded that since there are so few people affected, there is no need to do anything more right now. Should we use the same reasoning with regard to other minority groups in Sweden, I wonder what kind of society we would have. The 2003 study estimates that there were approximately 750 historic leases at the time. It is therefore a question of leases that are at least 100 years old and that have passed for generations. It is land that nobility and large landlords have never used themselves. There are at least about twenty examples of the historical farm garden only on Trolle Ljungby fideikommiss in northeastern Skåne. Let me briefly tell you about one of these in my neighborhood. PerPer-Axel Ohlsson, his nephew Nils-Nils-Åke and their ancestors have for five generations leased and cultivated the land at Norregården in Edenryd. The Count has never contributed, either financially or through work to improve housing, ditching or stone clearance. On the other hand, the tenants have invested millions in the farm. When it has been time for a new period, the Count has increased its production by from 20 to 70 per cent. The more the family invests and improves on their farm, the higher the rent becomes because the value of the land has increased. What if, instead, they had owned the farm and had been able to develop their farms as own and free entrepreneurs with ownership rights? Madam President, I would like I will later invite you to a film screening with documentary filmmaker Per Anders Rudelius. The film is called Greven and the peasants and shows a daily life in Sweden that is anything but modern. My hope is that we will agree in this House to introduce a redemption law for historic leases during this term of office.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1472	Madam President, I would like During the winter and spring I travelled around my county of Dalarna and met people at something I called senior coffee, that is, I invited the public to a café to talk about senior issues. Every Monday I was out meeting people and listening to what seniors thought were important questions for them. Many questions were raised at these senior fika events, and it is clear that there are different conditions in the different municipalities in Dalarna as they vary greatly in size. The very first question, Madam President, that came up on the agenda was always the issue of housing. It was not quite what I expected the seniors to think was the most important issue. In Dalarna, approximately 28 percent of the population is over 65 years of age. More than 2 million of Sweden's population are pensioners, and about half of the seniors live in a villa, according to Statistics Sweden. What does this mean for the housing market? Well, Sweden's owners of small houses are getting older, and many are forced to stay in their houses longer because of the fact that too little housing is being built for the elderly. We know, Madam President, that the number of older people will increase dramatically over the next few years. Housing is often crucial to quality of life. For seniors, a good and accessible home can improve both physical and mental health and reduce the need for care and risk of loneliness and falls. According to the government investigation Housing to remain in, every second senior who currently lives in apartment buildings is deemed to have no elevator. In small houses, accessibility is often even worse – stairs, high thresholds and upstairs bathrooms are more the rule than the exception. The conditions vary considerably across the country, but the availability of the housing stock is generally very low. The combination of a growing number of elderly people and a large number of inaccessible housing risks leading to a sharp increase in the cost of care for the elderly. By 2030, approximately 360 000 more homes will be needed for seniors, according to the state inquiry. At the same time, it is important to remember that everyone has different preferences. Some want to stay at home, some want to move and others want to live in some form of community. Different options are therefore needed on housing for seniors. The deficit in housing is high. In the Boverket housing market survey for 2018, 243 out of 290 municipalities report a deficit in housing. Several factors affect the functioning of the housing market. These include taxes, rent regulation, the regulations for mortgages, population growth and the building act. There are many problems and challenges, and we need to improve the functioning of the housing market by means of a series of important reforms especially for senior citizens. Sweden therefore needs a new government to address these issues. Sweden needs an alliance government.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1480	Madam President, I would like Today it is exactly a year since metoo was brewed in Swedish society. In area after area came a reality that many have known but that few have talked about and that even fewer have done anything to break and change. Sexual harassment, abuse and sexual crimes are something that should not happen in our society. It is a reality that we, like men's violence against women, must fight vigorously. The last term of office we have introduced a consent law against sexual offences. It is clear: What is not voluntary is forbidden. We have ensured that women who are victims of crime are entitled to support from a plaintiff's assistant immediately when the preliminary investigation starts. We have developed an action plan to stop men's violence against women, to strengthen support for women's shelters and to strengthen the possibility of using a anklet to monitor a ban on contact. We know that even more measures are needed. And in the future, I would like to see, among other things, increased minimum sentences for rape and stricter demands for sentenced persons to participate in treatment while in prison. Men's violence against women must stop. It is one of the priorities of the Social Democrats. Women should feel that they have the same opportunities and the same rights and conditions as men. Everyone should live their lives in freedom and security. In the same way, gang crime has to be stopped. Over the last 20 years, both the number of criminal groups and the number of criminals have increased. It is particularly worrying that many young people are getting involved in crime and that serious violence is increasing. We Social Democrats do not accept that insecurity is spreading or that citizens feel that the rule of law is no longer present. Drug sales, shootings, threats and violence must be removed from our streets and squares. We have had a government that, among other things, has tightened the penalties for some thirty crimes, including serious weapons crimes. It has increased the minimum penalty for serious violent crimes while at the same time investing in more camera surveillance. It is a powerful effort that has made a difference. But it doesn't stop here. I want us to be able to ensure, in the coming period of this parliamentary term, stronger penalties for attacks on blue-light personnel, abolish the penalty rebate for 18 to 20-year-olds and tighten the penalties for violations of the knife law. These are important matters in the area of justice in the future. Madam President, I would like However, my conviction is that the debate also, more than today, needs to be about the work of a strong society. We will fight the crimes but also the causes of the crimes. Crime is born of inequality, insecurity and abuse. And we need to talk about a strong justice system, with more policemen and tougher penalties, but also about the prevention of crime. We need to talk about how society can work even more coordinated and tight, that effective crime prevention requires the efforts of society as a whole, and that investing in our common welfare is also an important part of preventive work. As chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I believe that it is both successful and successful. Regardless of what the future government will look like, I hope that the great security programme launched by the then government will continue.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1491	Madam President, I would like Let me offer you a snapshot of reality. On October 10th, a motorcyclist and a passenger car collided outside Malung. The motorcyclist was injured and had to be taken from the scene by ambulance. Immediately after the accident, the general public suspected that the driver who had collided with the motorcyclist was heavily affected by alcohol. Police were alerted. It was two and a half hours before the police were there. Madam President, I would like What does it say about our social contract when law enforcement authorities need two and a half hours to get to the place where a serious crime has probably been committed? It says that the state is failing in its part of the social contract. If we want to achieve success in law enforcement work, the law enforcement authorities must be in a position to get on the ground and prosecute the crimes quickly. We cannot expect potential perpetrators to remain out of goodwill for two and a half hours at the place where they have committed a serious crime. It is my firm conviction that the police in Dalarna and in other places in Sweden work as best they can with the funds allocated. But policemen are policemen and not wizards. If, as in the present case, one has to cover a county that spans 400 km from north to south, it is not primarily a question of how to allocate assigned units. It's a matter of mathematics. It is simply not possible to cover this surface with assigned units, as it stands today. So as long as the present system remains, it will always be a matter of luck, rather than anything else, when the police manage to get quickly to the scene of a crime committed. We have a term of office behind us, which for the police in Sweden is a lost term. We have the lowest police density in ten years. When the population of Sweden has grown record-breakingly, the former, now departed, government has stood with its hands in its pockets and watched police officers leave their jobs on an unprecedented scale in Swedish history. We in this House may seem to agree that we need to invest in the police. But the ways we want to do it are different. The applications for today's police colleges provide an indication that continuing as has been the case so far will not solve the problem. So we still have empty seats in police training. In our budget, we in the Moderates propose specifically targeted funds for increased police salaries. It does not matter if we extend the training places if we cannot at the same time ensure that we have many qualified applicants. And of those who leave the police profession today, most pay indicates the strongest reason for choosing to leave. Madam President, I would like We need to take the police issue seriously. And we need to bet on police salaries.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1500	Madam President, I would like In an election movement where almost all parties talked about investments in Swedish police, there were still many crucial differences. One of the most important proposals, perhaps, was for a targeted salary investment to the Swedish police. We have been able to see the number of trained police officers on duty becoming smaller every year with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. And as a result of an irresponsible immigration policy, more and more segregated areas have, according to the police, gained a more visible criminal presence. Madam President, I would like Stefan Löfven promised that there would be 10,000 more police officers. However, just as with the promise of Europe's lowest unemployment, the promise is starting to sound false even now. Of course, there have been more places of study at our higher education institutions, but recent statistics show that we still have a significant proportion of empty places once the education is in progress. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats went to elections on a targeted salary initiative for Sweden's police as part of getting to grips with the problem. Hard-working police officers in external service will be lured to stay, and new people will be attracted to education. Madam President, I would like First of all, congratulations to all of Sweden's police officers. The result of the elections gave us a clear majority in the Swedish Parliament for a proposal for a well-deserved and targeted wage investment for hard-working police officers. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that a majority in parliament is not good enough for the Center Party and the Liberals. The Centre Party and the Liberals will refuse to vote for a budget in which a targeted wage increase to Sweden's police officers becomes a reality, only because such a budget would require support from the Swedish Democrats. So there will be no wage bet to Sweden's police officers, and for that, not least, the entire Swedish police force unisont can thank both Annie Lööf and Jan Björklund. Madam President, I would like We also have criminal networks that are a huge burden on society, not just by burdening the Swedish police and the rest of the legal chain. They are also a great burden to ordinary, honest people who live with a real concern about new shootings, murders, robberies or car fires. We do not have time to wait for the necessary reforms. We must break these criminal structures as quickly as possible and put dangerous individuals in prison, as long as it is necessary to restore security in society. Here too, there are many common directions, not least between the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates. For example, we want specific laws aimed at organised crime that give specific powers and specific penalties. But when Ulf Kristersson chooses to seek support outside the Alliance, he turns primarily – hears and marvels – to the Social Democrats. It is therefore the party itself that is responsible for political abstinence in criminal policy. So instead of seeking cooperation with the parties that are the solution to the problems, the Moderates choose to seek cooperation with the problem itself. For the Swedish Democrats, the important thing is the substance of the matter, and criminal policy is something that we have chosen to prioritise. For other parties, your priority is not to become dependent on the Swedish Democrats. And such an approach has political consequences. Madam President, I would like There is a clear parliamentary majority for a new criminal policy direction with increased police salaries and increased penalties. Unfortunately, however, there are parties that prioritise a political game over political substance. And it makes it clear, Madam President, that it is the Swedish Democrats who are and remain Sweden's main criminal political party.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1513	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in, whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb. One of the most important tasks of the state is to provide citizens with security through a well-functioning judicial system. Early reaction to and violation of criminal behaviour is essential for preventing crime and preventing young people from entering criminal activities. To achieve this, a comprehensive policy is needed for children and young people. We need a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment and an offensive criminal policy. At the same time, however, we have a situation where the number of police officers per inhabitant in Sweden is the lowest in ten years. This is happening in a situation where we cannot afford a shrinking police force. On the contrary, we need more police officers both in our big cities and in the countryside. The police shall be present and visible throughout the country. There must be a police presence to deal with the problems that arise. But unfortunately Sweden also has a valuation crisis. Respect for what was previously self-evident authority decreases. From health professionals and teachers to librarians and bus drivers, there is an increased level of conflict in their professions. More people notice that there is violence and threats. In today's society, even the police aren't safe anymore. Some recent examples from recent weeks: A policeman visits Stadsparksbadet in Borås with his children and gets the message that you called the police because of order problems inside the bath. Even though he has his children with him, he chooses to act on his own. He gets the people to leave the bath house, but outside, the gang flies at him with fists so he gets hurt and goes to a hospital. The second example concerns the Skövde Travel Centre. The police are getting an alarm that it's a mess. A bunch of younger men have been fighting on a bus. When police patrols arrive at the scene, they will be attacked. One of the officers is injured so badly that he becomes unconscious. He loses several teeth and has a concussion. Madam President, I would like That's the reality these days. Respect for police officers and other bluelight personnel is falling, and the risk of harm caused by violence is increasing. When the police are now to be scaled up to meet the needs, it is important that respect for police officers is also enhanced. The last four years have been marked by alarm reports about the vulnerable situation in which they work. And it doesn't just happen to cops. Other parts of society's core functions are also being attacked. The Christian Democrats have launched proposals to counter this. We want to see a new crime rubrication: attacks on vital social functions. We also went to elections to introduce two other new crimes: threats and violence against alert personnel. It would give fire brigades and ambulances the same protection as police officers. In addition, we want those who interfere, threaten and are violent in hospitals to be banned from visiting the hospital. Madam President, I would like To protect police officers, there's an investigation on the government table: the Bluelight investigation. While we believe that the proposals presented in the Bluelight investigation are not sufficient, the investigation is nevertheless a proposal in the right direction, despite the fact that it does not deliver all the necessary measures. After all, it is important for the investigation to be handled as soon as possible, and it is now necessary to take action by the government to take these first steps in the right direction in order to create improved conditions and increased protection for blue light personnel in their important tasks. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, will continue to act during this term of office for the protection of the police and other professions.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1526	Madam President, I would like The Swedish rule of law is in question. Slowly but surely we see cracks in the most important link in the community contract. There are two main challenges. The Swedish rule of law acts too slowly when young people commit crimes, and it acts too weakly when serious criminals choose crimes as a lifestyle. We know from research and the simplest outsider coverage that crime can go forward as a harvester over people's lives. This applies to victims of crime as well as perpetrators and relatives. The human costs are each enormous. Over the years in politics, I have visited many of Sweden's police stations, prisons and social offices. Strong meetings with individual victims, police officers, prosecutors, judges and criminologists have given a more or less unified message: too broad tasks or commitments and too little resources. The competence and tools of the authorities, which are all too often the step behind the serious criminals, need to be sharpened. When it came to young people, there has almost always been a demand for earlier, clearer and in some cases tougher efforts. But Sweden is part of the world. Within Europe alone, there are 3 600 organised active networks of serious criminals. We are therefore talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are organised by crime and other people's accident. These networks include, of course, the Swedish criminal networks, which have been able to grow significantly stronger in recent years one than we wanted. Today, in many areas, their jurisdiction is dominant instead of that of the rule of law. The emergence of crime is an unintended consequence of conflicting interests in European cooperation. Open borders within Schengen have been good for numerous reasons, while law enforcement within the Union has not got the strength that has been desired, and now we can see the result. Last night we were able to see the shortcomings of Swedish customs. Customs shall focus exclusively on the introduction of drugs and weapons. At the same time, too little or almost no resources are available to focus on the export of, for example, stolen goods. We also know that, when efforts have been made to safeguard European cooperation, the nationalist approach has not rarely taken place. Our police department and our law enforcement agencies have known best. There has been a need for increased European cooperation. We Liberals believe that cooperation must be stepped up within the EU. In the forthcoming European elections, this will be absolutely necessary, not least in the police field, also operationally. There is a need to step up the cooperation of the prosecutors and to work together in the field of judicial and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. That is absolutely necessary. In national developments, criminal law, procedural law and their toolboxes are too weak. We know the cops are too few. The great social effort is lacking. I would like to say that the major challenge in the coming years is to make early and clear efforts with regard to young offenders. We know that young people are easily caught up in serious crime, exploited and quickly turned into cannon fodder for serious organised crime. I think we need to see a national collection. It is not just a responsibility for us who are working on legal matters or for the Committee on Justice; it is not least the responsibility of the Committee on Social Affairs. The Swedish Social Services Act is adapted and written for another Sweden and another time. Here's what we need to do. I believe that early and clear action is essential, along with the development of European cooperation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1541	Madam President, I would like Many are currently speculating on new government constellations and are trying to piece together 175 mandates in order to reach a parliamentary majority. However, a new government cannot base itself solely on the number of mandates. First and foremost, a new government must be based on common political values on both fundamental and substantive issues. I am therefore pleased that we Members are given the opportunity to talk about what is a prerequisite for a new government, namely politics and the content of politics. Madam President, I would like As Skåne-moderate, I see a lot of what is fantastic about our country. Skåne has Sweden's best schools, Sweden's best tax policy and Sweden's best and bravest policy for more security and a secular society. But just a stone's throw away from Lund, where I live, we see many of Sweden's problems. In Malmö we have areas of exclusion where the rule of law is weak, where parallel societies and rules can operate and where a different view of individual rights and obligations prevail. As a moderate, I don't want to paint black or fair, but I want to see reality for what it is. A reality that has been far too little seen is the one that many of Sweden's women live in – the culture of honor. According to a study by the association Neither the whore nor the kuvad has done in segregated alienation areas, 83 percent of the girls are not allowed to have boyfriends, and 73 percent are not allowed to enter into love relations until they have married. Views of women and their role in society vary from culture to culture. Today's cultural relativists were yesterday the main opponents of macho culture. Today, the silence of many of them is evident. Not to admit that in parts of Sweden there is an honorary culture that limits people's freedom and self-determination is to look between your fingers. Not being prepared to do anything about it is betraying the vulnerable. For Sweden to continue to be one of the world's most equal countries, women's rights throughout the country must be defended, whether they live in Rosengård or in Vellinge. It is precisely for this reason that crimes committed with honorary motives must be punitive and, moreover, they must be subject to their own criminal classification for crimes committed as part of maintaining the honour of the family. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago there was a new P3 documentary about Örebromannen. He has been described as one of Sweden's worst serial rapists, and his approach was to cycle after women and then expose them to severe violence. In the documentary we hear how one of his victims tells about how she was threatened with a knife, tied with bundles and then beaten and raped for an hour and a half. I think I speak for most women when I say that this is our worst nightmare. The Örebroman was sentenced to 12 years in prison in 2011. A few days ago, he was released. So he was sentenced to 12 years in prison but released after eight years. Why should Örebroman not serve his twelve years, to which he is actually sentenced? I don't think a serial rapist should have his sentence shortened by a third. It is unreasonable for us to have an automatic penalty reduction in the system. Therefore, the parole must be re-established. It should be the exception and not the general rule that you are released before you have served your full sentence. Criminalisation of honour crimes and reform of parole will not solve all Sweden's security problems. But there are steps on the road to a safer and more equal Sweden. Stefan Löfven has not taken those steps. Now a government is needed to tackle these problems, and that government needs Ulf Kristersson to lead.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1551	Madam President, I would like Knowledge and experience of the activities and organisation to be managed should reasonably be a basic requirement for managerial appointments directly related to police activities. Today, however, it is unfortunately not meritorious to have police expertise in executive appointments within the Police Authority. Of the day's 16 top managers have only 6 police degrees and experience working as police. Thus, 63 percent of the country's top police officers lack both a police degree and police experience. In addition to this, there is a strange order whereby persons without a police degree who are recruited as senior executives within the Police Authority are more or less automatically appointed police officers in the sense of the law. This is despite the fact that the only mandate that comes with the appointment of a policeman is the mandate to use force and coercion against individuals. What should be borne in mind here is that decisions on various police activities can be taken by any official who has been delegated this power in accordance with the police rules. I find it difficult to interpret this in any other way than that it is considered important that senior executives within the Police Authority also have the power to use force and coercion against individuals. But what I do not understand is why it is necessary to equip these people with a gun, a baton, pepper spray and handcuffs. It is not reasonable for the regulation of the state monopoly of violence to be dealt with in this way. All organisations need outside influences, and it is also important for the Police Authority to recruit people outside its own authority for management and specialist functions. These may include positions in finance, HR and IT, for example. However, the main rule should be to have completed a police degree in order to be recruited for managerial positions directly related to police activities. Police work is largely based on experience, and leading and prioritising police activities without experience is a difficult equation. The police degree must of course also be a requirement for you to be appointed a policeman. The police authority has no problem handling its management mission, but the bigger the problem of managing its police mission. Madam President, I would like If we want the Police Authority to carry out good and effective police activities, police competence needs to be a requirement for the people who will lead the agency. I do not understand in what way it would be a success factor to choose beginners as managers of a complex business. Today we have about 20 000 police officers, and I am absolutely convinced that suitable managers can be found within their own corps. For the same reason that the commander-in-chief needs to be a military officer, the chief police officer and other senior police officers need to be police officers with a police degree.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1558	Madam President, I would like I will devote these minutes to highlighting a slightly less attentive part of the Customs' many challenges. The fact that both external and internal border controls are associated with obvious problems has hopefully not been missed by now. There are major problems with the introduction of everything from drugs to weapons and not least people for various purposes; it may be trafficking, organised begging or forced prostitution. These areas are receiving relatively much attention today, albeit not enough, but today I would like to highlight the problem of the Customs Agency in a less debated area, namely the actual export of goods and goods. This was mentioned on the news only yesterday and has also been mentioned here this evening. The fact that more checks are carried out on incoming traffic than on outgoing traffic is, of course, self-evident. However, the fact that 98 percent of the time, energy and resources are devoted to the introduction of goods feels like a slightly distorted distribution given the problem that exists even in the case of the export of goods. For example, there are four ferries daily between Gothenburg and Fredrikshamn in Denmark, and the Swedish Customs Agency only has the resources to check three to four of these per year. Annually, more than 20 000 housing offences occur in Sweden, and the police report that international crime networks are estimated to account for up to half of these. When it comes to the theft of goods of higher value, such as boat engines, car parts and agricultural machinery, the police expect the majority to be foreign ordering jobs, mainly from the former Eastern and Baltic states. We have acquired this knowledge partly through stolen electronics that have been blocked and can then be traced to these areas – but for limited use because the damage is already done and no direct possibilities of getting the goods back do not exist. What is worrying here is that the Customs Department has by law extremely limited possibilities to intervene when the stolen goods are transported out of the country, even when, for example, an entire van is discovered full of supposedly stolen computers. Customs therefore has no legal right either to seize goods or to detain suspected criminals, since there are no restrictions on stolen goods. The regulations stipulate that, in the event of suspicion of a crime, the Finnish Customs must contact the police, who will then take over the matter. This may not be entirely illogical in itself, but the police must arrive immediately before the ferry leaves the terminal, and this only happens in exceptional cases. It is, of course, a well-known loophole for international criminals. The police claim that low penalties, priorities for major crimes and few border controls make Sweden a very popular country for foreign thieves. This has been expressed by, among others, Bo Löf, who works with the mapping of international crime networks in Sweden. He says you come to Sweden as a sandwich table, you eat and go measured from here. He claims, quite logically, that it is of course spread in these criminal circles that Sweden is a fairly easy country to steal in. As I said, the penalty is very low, and it is easy to get into both the EU and Sweden as we have virtually open borders," says Bo Löf. Customs, in turn, testifies to the fact that they can only stand by and watch various vans and trailers drive on board. Of course, this leads to great and noticeable frustration among the customs authorities themselves. Of course, we should not have to have it in Sweden today.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1568	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a troubled time and in a troubled world. Democracy is under pressure. West, in the United States, we see Trump inciting citizens, media and neighbors. Lies, racism and sexism come in a steady stream. Eastward, in Russia, we see Putin, whose regime is hitting both the Russian people and others hard: internal repression, external aggression. In Poland the legal system is watered down, and anti-Semitism has grown since National Conservative Pis took power. Right-wing extremism is spreading in Europe. You seek division and spread hatred. We also see it here in the country. Never before has Swedish right-wing extremism been so well established. On social media, hatred erupts. The Nazis vandalized Almedalen. They disturbed, threatened and fought. In the streets and squares around the country they show up. They interfere, threaten and fight. Sometimes they even attend meetings with police permits. Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Racism is obvious. I meet children and adults who are afraid It is about people with foreign and foreign relatives, women, LGBT people, trade unionists, disabled people and Swedes who belong to the Sami people and national minorities. There are many more, including people who do not belong to the first victims of racism but who know that sooner or later they are next. Right-wing extremism doesn't spare anyone. Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! My grandfather was a Jew from Austria. As a young man, he fled to Sweden before Hitler closed the borders. His parents were left behind. We are one of many families who know what right-wing extremism and racism are about, where it begins and how it ends. It's about breaking the vicious circle in time – seeing the connections and the signs, putting in countermeasures and saying stop. The time has come. Sweden must launch a broad work programme against racism and for equality. I would like to highlight a few areas here: Madam President, I would like Even though we live in a troubled time, I feel confident. Democracy in this country has endured severe pressures for nearly 100 years. We've done it before. I'm sure we can do it again. But it depends on us – all of us together.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1576	Madam President, I would like I was going to talk a little about our electoral system and about the importance of having one and the same ballot for all parties. Unfortunately, the elections just over a month ago were marked by a lot of problems that would upset confidence in our democracy. Among other things, there were threats and violence at polling stations, family voting, mishandling of premature votes and more, but above all very serious problems with ballot papers. Election notes were constantly removed from ballot boxes but, above all, virtually no action was taken to allow voters to pick the ballots they wanted in isolation. The seats with ballot papers have usually been on everyone's watch, with full insight as to which ballot papers the voters take. This procedure is permitted in Sweden because the electoral secret is considered to be valid only in the electoral booth. However, as ballot papers are a prerequisite for voting and the voters are not being sent home by the state, the voters who are not active and try to get hold of the ballot papers elsewhere will have to pick the ballots they need at the ballot box. In previous parliamentary elections, the system of ballot papers has been criticised by international election observers. In a report, the election observers noted that the ballot box is a cause for great concern, as voters are often forced to crowd each other when ballot papers are to be picked. As few people pick more than one ballot for each election, you can see quite easily how others vote. Despite previous criticisms, no change has taken place. A common argument from those defending the current electoral system is that it is up to the individual to secure his or her electoral secret by taking several ballots from different parties. This, however, is a major misconception and a departure from the intention of the Constitution that the elections should be free and secret. A secure procedure should guarantee the secret of elections without forcing the individual to take his or her own active measures. Moreover, when few people take multiple ballots, this means that the act itself can be a political signal. Denmark has an election system with the same ballot for all parliamentary parties. The ballot consists of several pages in order to make room for the person elections. The ballot is collected from the polling station when you register for voting. The voters then go to a protected booth and make their choice and then put the ballot box in the ballot box. In addition to this important aspect of maintaining the secret of elections, the whole logistics of the elections is made easier. In Sweden, over half a billion ballots are printed, and only a few of them are used. It is also a very comprehensive and resource-intensive procedure for parties to have their ballots distributed to households and polling stations. The Danish system is therefore preferable from an environmental and socio-economic point of view. The only reason to be against a system with a common ballot is probably that several of the parliamentary parties see an advantage with the current system. At a time of polarisation and political discrimination, voters are afraid to pick ballots from, for example, the Swedish Democrats. What if a colleague, a neighbor or a friend behind me in the queue sees what I take for a ballot? However, this is a cynical approach to one of our most important and finest constitutions, that of free and secret elections. In the long term, it will not benefit anyone that confidence in our democracy is disrupted and that citizens see the general elections as rigged.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1588	Madam President, I would like All public power in Sweden is based on the people. Parliament is the main representative of the people. That is what we say in our form of government, the constitution that forms the basis of our democracy. The confidence that 1 out of 349 people will be elected MP is one of the finest trusts you can get in Sweden – and this is one of the finest assignments. Members of Parliament must be representative of their party and its positions, but also of the people. Compared to most members of the electorate, members of parliament have very high monthly fees. In November the fee will be raised further, to SEK 65 400 a month. It is an income that most people in Sweden can only dream of. That is more than twice the average income of the people we represent. This means that the living conditions of Members of Parliament are very different from the living conditions that people have that we are supposed to represent here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like For many years, the Left Party has been exercising to reduce Members' fees. We think the fee is far too high. It is a problem that the fee is so much higher than what an average Swedish earns. It risks having a negative impact on public confidence. It's about credibility. It is clear that the compensation should be good. It is a responsible task to be an elected member of the Swedish Parliament. But politicians should not live in their own reality far from ordinary citizens. The inheritance should therefore be reduced to a more reasonable level and linked to the price base amount, which today is SEK 44 500. Although this is far beyond what the majority of the country's voters earn, it would be a far more reasonable level. Because these are so high fees, the Left Party has a party tax for all its representatives. It means that no matter how high the fee for a political assignment, for example to sit in the Riksdag, a representative of the Left Party does not receive more than SEK 28,400 a month. Despite the party tax in the Left Party, my income is considerably higher than my previous income, which I had as a support assistant. Madam President, I would like The confidence that as 1 out of 349 people are elected as Members of Parliament is one of the finest trusts you can get in Sweden. But it's just a trust, not a job. It is a confidence that you have a short period of your life. The living conditions for us as Members of Parliament are very different from the living conditions that most of us had before entering this House, and they are very different from the living conditions that people have that we are to represent here in Parliament. It is time to reduce parliamentary fees.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1598	Madam President, I would like Basically, our democracy and prosperity are based on the fact that we citizens care about each other and together want to build a good society for all. To care about is civil society's own superpower. As divisions grow and segregation increases, civil society becomes increasingly important to build community, preserve democracy and meet society's challenges. In my hometown, the 32 goes straight through the woods. On one side of the busy road is Ingarp, and on the other side is Russnäs. On both sides of the road there are children. For decades, the Society and residents of the villages have been trying to influence the Swedish Transport Administration to take road safety-enhancing measures. Proposals have been presented and funding has even been offered with local companies. Despite this, nothing has happened. There is no lack of excavators or knowledge in the villages, so if it had not been illegal, the Society would have arranged this itself and then celebrated with sausage grating. This is an example where cooperation between authorities and local civil society could effectively solve problems in people's everyday lives. But then the authorities must start to see local initiatives as a resource and not as a difficult fly that buzzes and interferes with the important work of the authorities. Madam President, I would like Although unemployment is low in Sweden today, there are many people who are far from the labour market. It is about people with short education, new arrivals and long-term ills. The human vision that is built into the DNA of ideas-based organizations is a unique added value in working with this particular group. Despite this, labour market policy solutions that take non-profit actors seriously are currently lacking. The paper in the middle of Södermalm was on my carpet yesterday. An article in Stockholm states that half of Stockholm's elderly people suffer from loneliness. The same article tells us that voluntary initiatives save people from isolation. In a policy of breaking loneliness, civil society's preconditions are crucial. Therefore, we Christian Democrats want to give civil society stronger economic conditions, and we want to reintroduce the gift tax credit to organisations that work with social needs. The sports movement currently has tax rules which mean that associations do not have to pay employers' contributions for sportsmen and coaches if the remuneration is less than half a price base amount. We believe that other non-profit organisations should be included in the same regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like For almost ten years, a new form of collaboration, idea-based public partnership, IOP, has emerged. Municipalities, county councils and organisations see a need for concrete cooperation that does not come about through procurement or association grants. The parties of the Parliament must now take the step from supporting the IOP rhetorically to making concrete proposals that encourage municipalities and county councils to enter into this type of agreement. My wife, Karin, works as a teacher in Swedish as a second language. One of the most common questions she receives is: Where are the Swedes? The answer is almost always: in the associations. Whether it is about integration, the labour market or loneliness, civil society has an important role to play. Idea-borne organisations do not want and should not be governed by the public, but they want and will help if they get.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1607	Madam President, I would like This year we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Human Rights Convention. In Sweden, we are trying to live up to the objectives of the Convention through the anti-discrimination legislation we have. The most recent design was decided in the Riksdag in 2008 and became applicable in 2009. It covers seven grounds for discrimination: gender, transgender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, disability and age. In 2013, the part dealing with age was strengthened not only to include education and working life, but also health care, social services and goods and services, i.e. those in all sectors of society. This was seen as a great normative victory. Now we could really combat the ageism that is so pronounced in Sweden and that has consequences in terms of age discrimination. WHO has produced data showing that Sweden is one of the bad guys when it comes to prejudiced views of year-rich people. Now we have had this law for five years, and how has it gone? Well, there are between 200 and 300 notifications of age discrimination a year. They mainly concern working life followed by goods and services. Seriously, the reports also apply to health care and social services, because there we have legislation that is clear that it is people's needs that should be met and that assessments should not be made based on age. What about these notifications? Well, of the about 1,200 we've received, 3 have gone to court. There were three drivers who were not allowed to drive a bus or car after the age of 70. But the verdict was that they were allowed to continue driving. Otherwise, four went to conciliation while all the others are unanalysed by the Discrimination Ombudsman. This is the case with notifications on the basis of the other grounds of discrimination as well. But these should be analysed. We should know why people have endeavoured to submit a complaint to DO about how they have felt violated and discriminated against in different situations. If we had this knowledge, we would have better instruments to address the problem. But for reasons such as confidentiality reasons, these complaints must not be investigated, so I believe that the Riksdag must give an assignment to DO to analyse them. We also need to review the anti-discrimination law as such. A review was made a few years ago, but it was only petitess that came into being. This is serious, because people in our society should feel that we live up to human rights of equal value.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1614	Madam President, I would like I reported gender equality as a topic of debate. I had thought it would be a headline of my own, but now I came under the heading of Democracy and Human Rights. After all, that is a pretty good heading, because that is exactly what gender equality is all about. The overall objective of gender equality policy is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. Based on this, the Social Democratic-led government works with six sub-objectives: equal distribution of power and influence, economic equality, equal education, equal distribution of unpaid domestic and care work, equal health and the cessation of violence against women by men. In addition, it is important to recognise that gender equality affects all areas of society. In order to achieve an equal society, a gender perspective must be laid in all areas of society. This strategy is called gender mainstreaming. Madam President, I would like Looking backwards to get perspective on gender equality work, it is striking how slowly it has gone. What we think today should be obvious has taken hundreds of years to achieve. The right to vote came a hundred years ago, parental insurance came in the 70s and consent legislation as late as this year. Of course you can think but only possible through hard political work. Madam President, I would like In 1864 a husband was forbidden to discipline his wife. That's 154 years ago. But after 154 years, one of our gender equality policy objectives is still that men's violence against women should cease. It takes time, and it doesn't happen by itself. We must constantly strive to move forward, move forward and not give up. We must achieve an equal society now, soon and immediately. We can't wait. But while striving forward, we must be careful that we do not lose what we have won. There is a dangerous development in our country, in Europe and in the world where growing forces are trying to repress the achievements we have made. In the Swedish Parliament we have Members who threaten all the successes that have been achieved and who want to turn the clock back. They want to restrict the right to abortion, introduce conscience clauses, reintroduce co-taxation and custody allowances and reduce parental insurance. In the European Parliament there is opposition from the right to equality. The United States has a president who is notorious for his anti-woman policies and sexist statements. Brazil has a presidential candidate who excels in misogynism, and Saudi Arabia has its conservative interpretation of Islam. These are just a few examples of what all friends of democracy and equality have to fight against. It's political ghosts from the past. This applies not only to equality, but also to their relationship with democracy and justice. These are conservative and religious forces such as the Free Church movement in Brazil, the Christian Right in the United States, the Catholic Church in Europe and Islamists in the Middle East. Tragic is how similar these forces are. Islamists and right-wing Christians carry the same authoritarian, patriarchal and anti-female ideas. Against these powers of darkness, everyone who stands up for democracy and human rights, which is the title of this section, must take up the fight. We must be so determined that we can both carry forward the work of generations while defending what we have achieved. The Social Democrats are a feminist party. Women and men should have the same opportunities and rights in all areas of life. Men and women are and should be treated as equals. We never give up on this.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1627	Madam President, I would like Like Patrik Björck, I signed up for a debate on gender equality and thought it would have its own headline. For me as a moderate, gender equality is that women and men should have the same opportunity to start and run businesses. I want good content to be created for those for whom the activities are, and I am, of course, talking about the welfare sector where six out of ten women are found. Profit limits could have devastating effects and consequences for both activities and those activities. During the election campaign, there were many of us who knocked at the door of families and visited businesses. New models to deliver activities to those in need of help and support can create something long-term where staff thrive and, for example, young people with severe disabilities receive a qualitative content that institutional activities have not been able to contribute. The women who work here work the various hours of the day, as it means, to help those in need of support. It is even the case that the activities contain elements that are missing for those who practice on the health care side of nurses and nurses. Here you can get a comprehensive education. So it's a great opportunity to practice in these places. These and other activities are started and run by these women, not least mothers who have seen a need to develop activities that provide fantastic content with human values. We must take advantage of all these activities that exist and that are started and run, not least the good content for those for which they are. Sweden and our citizens need to see more of activities like these, and they exist in different ways and in different forms. It can't be wrong to run businesses that create new models in a good way that allows us to access businesses that provide content that they haven't had before. I can give an example, a child who has previously been in a business. The person in question cannot move at all. The person could not get massage and touch at the activity where he was, because there was no time. But then he came to a new business. There they called the parents, who were almost crying, and asked if it was okay for this guy to have a massage and touch every day. The parents did not believe it was true and possible. By working in other ways, without running faster, you can reach new heights for what you want to achieve. Then it is devastating to put an end to the activities of these people, for which there are proposals in terms of welfare gains. Instead, we should all do everything we can to ensure that activities such as these can develop in the best possible way and become more and more in our elongated country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1634	Madam President, I would like Democracy in Sweden is worthy of stubborn and tireless care. This year it is 100 years since decisions were taken in the Swedish Parliament on universal and equal voting rights for men and women. Three years later, 1921, it was implemented in practice. It became the starting point for a social system in which the people's will would be guiding, not how much land they owned or what economic status they had, but the human dignity itself – a person, a voice. The efforts of the early representatives of the Social Democracy, together with the free-minded liberals and peasants of the time, by vigorous and self-sacrificing work pushed forward, despite opposition from conservative forces, led to the society we see as self-evident today. A historical perspective can be good for understanding the present. But, of course, we need to constantly look forward, and as I see it, it is the deep popular anchoring that continues to have to be at the centre. The municipalities, county boards and regions all play important roles in the development of democracy throughout the country. One can discuss and also investigate at which levels heads of different activities should be over time. Schools and health care are often the focus of this debate. Some say that the state should take over the entire responsibility for schools and that the health care should also be taken over in whole or in part by the state. The question should then be asked: In what way are we here in Parliament or government officials centrally better sent to decide on schools and health centres in the local community than those operating on the ground, representatives with knowledge and experience of actual conditions and with responsibility to meet the people and activities concerned? Madam President, I would like What about democracy in general today? is a question you can ask. Anyone who reads statistics from the recent elections sees that the turnout was high, just over 87 per cent. By international standards it is very high. The efforts made by the government and a number of municipalities in terms of participation and democracy can be said to have borne fruit from these figures. But there is obviously reason to work on this focus, not least to smooth out differences in voting turnout between different areas. In some electoral districts, perhaps 50 to 60 percent go to vote, in others up to 90 percent. One problem that has also been highlighted, and rightly so, is hatred and threats that are presented online or in other contexts and that affect many people in everyday life. A few days ago I was contacted by a high school student at Åbyskolan in Klippan. He was working on school work on the political debate. He wondered, with reference to a research report, how I viewed the tightening tone of politics. I replied that this might not apply to politics alone; it is unfortunately a trend in society at large. A generally tougher and more polarised climate also leaves its mark on the political debate. But, of course, we who work in the political assemblies have a responsibility to bear. Trueness and balance are perhaps things that should prevail at times. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that it is through long-term sustainable efforts on integration, on meeting places and on peoples' education and by promoting associations and cultural life that more people become part of society and public dialogue and democracy can be developed. It is the focus on individual citizens' opportunities for participation that will further develop Swedish democracy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1646	Madam President, I would like I, too, have signed up for the debate under the Equal Opportunities section and the slightly broader heading. I would like to start with a note in Dagens Nyheter a few weeks ago: Up to 30 children are missing when school starts. It was a very small item, but it aroused my interest. The missing children are suspected to have been abducted abroad to be married away. What do we do when we get that kind of information? We note that they have not come back, but what do we do then? I am thinking of Fadimes's words when she was here in Parliament and gave her speech. She ended it with the words, don't turn your back. And she meant all those who are forced to live under various forms of honorary oppression. Part of the oppression of honour means that children and young people are taken abroad to be married away by force or genital mutilation. Sweden today does not have enough measures to prevent children and young people from being taken out of the country against their will. Nor do we have sufficient tools to help children and young people return to Sweden if they have been abducted. The problem is not new, but the ignorance of authorities that come into contact with it stands in the way of co-ordinated and powerfully facing causes and spread. Transnational protection work needs to be strengthened. Those who are abducted abroad for the purpose of, for example, genital mutilation or marriage are in an extremely vulnerable situation. Madam President, I would like The investigation Strengthened protection against forced marriages and child marriages points out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish National Police and the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office must develop and improve their collaboration on cross-border matters with a problem linked to forced marriage and honour. In several cases of abducted persons, their vulnerability has been known to Swedish authorities long before they have been removed. There must therefore be much better opportunities for authorities to act preventively in cases with a potential transnational dimension. For example, it should be possible for courts to issue injunctions requiring a particular person not to be taken abroad in the event of suspicion that he is at risk of being married away or subjected to genital mutilation. Something similar already exists today in England, which is called Protection Orders. They protect children and young people from being taken abroad to be married away. In some cases, children who have been abducted have made contact with authorities and private individuals in Sweden to tell them that they have been married against their will and that they want help to return. After the relevant authorities then made contact with the guardians, who stated that the child was abroad of their own volition, the cases have often been closed without follow-up actions and measures. These people are thus largely extradited to themselves. In many cases they are forgotten and never return home. Madam President, I would like Since 2008, Norway has a model of so-called integration advisors at its embassies in some countries. Their task is, among other things, to work strategically to establish networks in the countries concerned and to work in support and consultation with other authorities and organisations in the process of getting displaced persons home. A similar model we would need in Sweden. Actually, it is quite simple: Swedish law and human rights must apply to everyone in Sweden. We cannot continue to turn our backs on these children. There are measures that could protect them, and it is time we took them.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1656	Madam President, I would like I, too, am probably under the wrong heading. I originally signed up for the foreign policy debate, but since I am going to talk about democracy, I was pleased to see the title of this evening's debate. I will talk about democracy, Madam President – democracy in general. What I want to say about this is that democracy is not all-inclusive. Democracy is nothing that stays forever, but it is an issue that we must all work for, not just here in Parliament and not just in our political parties. It is an issue that must be pursued throughout society, Madam President. I say this because when the Soviet Union broke down, there were many of us who rejoiced. We thought that democracy would come. What's it been like? No, there has not been democracy in all former Soviet states. There are still problems for many citizens, Madam President. Here I will say a few words about election observations and the importance of being part of an international context, as the Swedish Parliament does together with 56 other countries. I am thinking of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which regularly monitors elections. The aim is not to scoff or blame, but to support the development of democracy and to provide opportunities. What are important criteria for there to be a democracy? Well, it is of course that elections are held regularly and that there is a constitution that tells us when elections are held and that this is not up to a political party to decide. The votes of all adult citizens must be of equal weight – no one's voice must weigh more than anyone else's. There shall be an honest and transparent counting of votes, and state and political parties shall be separated. And, of course, all citizens should have the opportunity to engage politically or refrain from doing so. Every citizen should have the right to meet politicians and parties and to obtain information about politics according to their own wishes. There should be free media where the candidates of the parties can publish themselves, just like individual people and journalists. Finally, there must be freedom of assembly. It is an extremely central issue that people have the right to meet where they want to. These may seem to be elementary points, Madam President, but this is not the case for a large number of people in a large number of countries. What we can see in some parts of the world is what we call a backlash: that democracy is being strangled. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that today, in fact, there have never been so many people who have been able to speak freely. This is something we should be happy about, but we will continue to fight. We will do that until there is democracy on earth. We should not accept that there are people or parties who say: Democracy – we want that, but it should not be democracy in your way. I have mentioned what is the foundation of democracy, and that is actually what is to be achieved. This is something we can all contribute to.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1663	Madam President, I would like On Saturday, the gates of the newly renovated National Museum on Blasieholmen were opened here in Stockholm. Some reviewers described it as the art experience of the decade, and hundreds of visitors have already made a pilgrimage there. With its 700 000 art objects from the 16th century to our present, the building is unique in its kind, ensuring that many national museums in Europe were bombed during world wars. The National Museum has its background in one of the most revolutionary shifts in Swedish history. Sweden had been separated from Finland, and there was a need to define Sweden as a national state. One expression of this desire was to build a national museum that collected all the historical art objects, antiques and coin cabinets of the country under one roof. Today, the National Museum is an important part of our Swedish cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like A major policy area that the government took on during the last term of office was the historic bill for a comprehensive cultural heritage policy with key priorities: We introduced a museum law that contains a special provision on the independent status of museums in relation to the political decision-making level. We have defined the overall purpose of museums to contribute to society and its development by promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation. We have increased our ambition to make cultural heritage available, so that it reaches more people and the whole country. This priority should also include the major cultural policy reform to introduce free admission to our state museums. Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage, which refers to all material and intangible expressions of human influence, such as traces, remains, objects, structures, environments and traditions, has gained new topicality in the debate on cultural policy in the various parliaments of Europe. When it really should be about traces or impressions of human life in order to create an understanding of existence and the context in which we find ourselves today, it has come to be used for extreme political purposes to serve exclusion and nationalism. Consciously, some parts of our vast complex cultural heritage are being highlighted. Unfortunately, this political agenda in cultural policy is also represented in the Swedish parliament. But fortunately, a majority of Parliament's representatives believe that cultural heritage is traces and expressions of the past that should be attributed to value and that should be used to understand the present. Cultural heritage can therefore be nothing but changing and open, as it is a transmission of stories and expressions – a transfer of knowledge between people and between generations. The purpose of making our cultural heritage and the diversity of the museum system available is no longer to define us as a nation state, but is a way to educate and promote a living cultural heritage that is to be preserved, used and developed. Madam President, I would like I will actually let the National Museum speak for itself, but inside the stone walls we find art that merges with its era and that criticizes it. We should therefore allow culture to be a dynamic, challenging and untying force on the basis of freedom of expression. Our democratic promise will continue to be to promote everyone's opportunities for cultural experiences, to enable people's meetings through accessible meeting places, to strengthen the diversity of artistic expressions and to strengthen civil society, peoples' education and peoples' movements. Basically, this is about what holds our society together today, that is, our strong democracy.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1676	Madam President, I would like Outsiders are growing, and people are feeling insecure in society today. We have just experienced an electoral movement that more than any other electoral movement in the 97-year history of our modern democracy has been about security linked to gross violence. Concepts such as gang crime, shootings and no-go zones have become accepted. It is all very sad and requires political leadership. Maintaining law and order and a sense of belonging to society is one of the core tasks of the state. The state must not fail here. That people can feel safe is the basis for a well-functioning and democratic society. Today, confidence and respect for the Swedish rule of law are being challenged, while the police density is the worst in ten years. Crime must never be everyday. Crime must be fought resolutely and vigorously. Anyone who commits a crime must be met by the full force of the law and the judiciary. I worked for many years as a social worker. This gave me insight into exclusion and the factors that affect people to end up in crime. This is precisely what we are talking about in the debate. I want to be a champion of tying the various policy areas together with gutters. We're not just going to work with drain pipes. Common to most professional criteria that show total indifference to other people's lives with their actions is that they have once as young people been attracted into destructive environments. Protection against ending up there, we are all building together around three parts: a workable family policy that provides support for families who need it, a functioning school that offers tools in the form of knowledge to be able to assert themselves in the labour market, for example, and a sensible leisure time. Madam President, I would like Culture is a known bridge builder between people. Sharing experiences tickles us together. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the culture and institutions of learning and education can develop independently. It is fundamental in a free and democratic society. We live in a troubled time with great contradictions. Art and culture help us to understand ourselves and the person we meet. In this way culture and education also contribute to a Sweden that stays together. Children's and young people's access to culture must be given priority, regardless of their situation in life and other conditions. That's why we Moderates, among other things, want to expand Creative School. We would like to see it introduced in high school as well. Madam President, I would like Sport and the sports movement are Sweden's largest peoples' movement and the world's best crime prevention organisation. We especially protect a sports life where resources are directed to children and young people from environments where sports activities are not an obvious choice. Among other things, we work for more sports hours at school but also for strengthening the role of sport in leisure homes. After decades as active in horse racing I know that horseback riding is much more than just developing skills from horseback. In the stables young people learn responsibility and to function in a social context with other riders and leaders. Many women who today are leaders in companies and organisations say that it was in the stables that they became leaders. There are no shortcuts to a good life. The reality of life is that results are achieved by taking responsibility and by own effort and social ability. Madam President, I would like The good society we create together. This happens when society does what society is set to do, such as fighting crime and ensuring schools provide knowledge. At the same time, society must be able to see the young person through a challenging period of youth. Outsidership is the opposite of freedom. That is why the challenge is both to combat and to prevent. These two are not in contradiction with each other. Instead, they are two sides of the same libertarian coin.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1689	Madam President, I would like It has been 43 days since the elections, and we do not yet have a government. I would therefore like to give some comments that hopefully will be implemented in a future government. I am going to talk about three areas and start with cohesion. I have met many schoolchildren during the election campaign, as many others in this House have certainly done. I have met school students who feel the same fear in society as I did nine years ago when I became politically active. Young people tell us that they no longer feel at home in their own country or city. Young people fear harassment because some groups in our society have a different view of us women and what gender equality is. These are groups in society that do not respect the rights and obligations that we have jointly built up. I want to cry inside every time I hear stories about when young people can't live as they want because our Swedish values aren't as much worth as some other values. Instead of a policy that builds our country together, we have a divided and segregated country. Culture must therefore be given a clearer strength and role in the construction of society. There should be no confusion as to what our customs are, what our values mean and what lies at the heart of what is today our traditions and the country to which we should all be proud. I am convinced that if we all start to talk more about what our culture is, we will eventually – for this will take time – have a cohesive country again. Madam President, I would like If you do not like or respect our way of life or the values we have in Sweden, then you have nothing to do in Sweden. Let me turn to the next topic. I believe that culture should exist and be implemented from the day we are born until the day we leave the earth. Culture develops us, it challenges us and it makes us grow as individuals. The Swedish Democrats have long focused on political proposals ranging from the cradle to the grave. Creating school, cultural school and libraries are some examples of important elements for early participation in cultural experiences. Creating elderly care, prescription culture, sports for the elderly, music and museums are examples of other cultural areas that are becoming increasingly important to our elderly when they want a cultural experience. Let us ensure that we have a government that really invests in culture for our elderly too, not just for children and young people! Last but not least, I would like to say a few words about sport. All of us have a relationship, or two, to sports, either as a child in a team, as a parent or as an enthusiast at major championships. Whether you're on the field or cheering on, sport is a big part of our life and our society. Never are the debates as hot as when they are sport-related. This was last seen when Stockholm moved on as one of three cities that can arrange the Winter Olympics 2026. IOK says yes, Stockholm's new government says no, and citizens say well and perhaps. It's fun with the Olympics. It is good if we can contribute new knowledge about how to arrange championships. The attitude of the Swedish Democrats is that in that case we can arrange it together with our Nordic neighbours.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1701	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson mentioned that culture should help keep society together. A few sentences later, she said that culture will challenge us. I just want to ask the question: Does Angelika Bengtsson see that there is any conflict between these two insights?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1702	Madam President, I would like Basically, we want to strive for a cohesive country. I also think Christer Nylander wants that. The fact that culture challenges us and makes us grow does not have to conflict with this, but it can. Culture is in conflict with a cohesive country when it challenges us because we do not share values, for example because as a woman I am not as much worth in another culture as in the Swedish one. For me, it is important that we all in Sweden strive to feel the same community and cohesion that builds everything together into a community. This is what I am striving for, and this is what we as a party are striving for.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1705	Madam President, I would like It became a great life when Ibsen wrote A doll's home. Norway was divided, and they barked at each other. It was a great life when Victoria Benediktsson from Skåne wrote about her right to gender equality. This meant that society became less cohesive, but it also meant that people were given more freedom. This is the problem when you say that you want both cohesion and want to see culture as challenging. What you want culture to challenge is just one. If Ibsen had not challenged in the 1800s, we would not have had equality in Norway and Sweden today.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1708	Madam President, I would like I don't want political control. Arm length distance is very important. I hope Christer Nylander thinks so too. But again, challenging can also mean finding a cohesive country in the long run. Clarity is the most important thing. That's what we need. That is why we must be clear about what cohesion is. What we are going to achieve is that we all support what we should have for common values in our country.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1709	Madam President, I would like Children should have the opportunity to practice and participate in culture themselves. It is a cornerstone of the Left Party's cultural policy, as well as it is evident in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and in Parliament's national objectives for culture. We see that it is an important part of a person's development to use all the senses and abilities, and it is my conviction that children who get to be creative and who find several ways to express their thoughts and feelings are better equipped for life. A study by Kulturanalyst shows that children's and young people's cultural habits differ according to their parents' background. Above all, it is their level of education that is recording. It is also clear that one's own cultural practice is falling with increasing age and that girls are more active cultural practitioners of all ages. It then gives the impressions in which to enter the higher artistic educations and which we will meet on stage, on film and at our museums and galleries in the future. I am concerned that we will continue to have a situation in which the cultural sector is very homogeneous if we do not radically change the conditions. If we are convinced that all children need and have the right to participate in culture, there are several important arenas to strengthen. It is mainly primary school, upper secondary school, study associations and cultural school. In many municipalities, recreation centres would also need to be strengthened in order to be an important place for cultural practice. I will focus above all on culture school here today. Madam President, I would like Last week Swedish Radio reported on a study from the University of Gothenburg's Academy of Music and Drama. It also showed that children with well-educated and cultural parents are over-represented in the cultural school. This was perhaps not a new information for us that has been following the debate for a long time, but it was interesting to see that two thirds of the children who continue after grade six have parents who themselves play music. This shows that much support and encouragement is needed from the home to continue with your instrument. This also shows something as elusive as cultural capital, says the researchers. It is important that educators consider how to make all children feel welcome. Of course, it must be a long-term goal for all children to feel safe and have a natural place in our cultural arenas. From the Left Party we mean that several different pieces are needed for the municipal cultural school to be a place for more children and for more children with different backgrounds to feel welcome. We need to remove the thresholds that impair accessibility. Together with the government, we have in recent years raised 100 million for increased accessibility. An important entrance for us from the Left Party has just been the economic accessibility – all children, regardless of the thickness of their parents' wallet, must be given the opportunity to participate. Now, from the Left Party, we want to go further and add another 200 million to help the municipalities completely abolish the fees. In order to compensate for the loss of revenue, municipalities would have to contribute as much themselves. In order for all families to know about the cultural school, understand how it works and find out the positive effects, outreach efforts also need to be put in place. There are many positive examples from municipalities that have already started this work. Closer cooperation between cultural schools and schools also mentions many as a success. It is also about a wider range and so on. We believe that the Left Party's efforts to increase the general state grant is an important part of enabling municipalities to work with gender. If we are to increase accessibility, we must also make room in the municipalities. The situation is serious in several places. I am proud of the decisions that the Left Party took during the last parliamentary term to strengthen the cultural school. In order to get to this extension and give the opportunity for it to be an inspiring and developing place for as many children as possible, we need to continue to support the municipalities in the future.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1716	Madam President, I would like Today it is three years since the Swedish publisher Gui Minhai was imprisoned in China. His crime was to publish regime-critical books. It's terrible that he's in prison. Day goes by day. You really need to feel the frustration, anxiety, and loss of life in his family. You have to share it and act to get him free. It is no coincidence that those who want to control society do as much as they can to go after publishers, journalists, writers and artists. Those who manage to limit culture and the media also manage to limit social conversation and thus gain power over society. That is why it is often counterproductive for various reasons. The provocation widens your mind and allows you to think and think things you didn't know before that you could think and think. It creates new associations and makes society much harder to control. That is why provocation is so provocative for those who want control of a society, not least in dictatorships. What may seem today is largely what can be planned and formulated for the future. That is why it is so central for those who want to limit social development, keep it in control and, for that matter, have cohesion to control precisely culture and the media. The intellectual infrastructure of society is largely built on culture. That is why, Madam President, cultural policy is so central, and that is why it is so important to safeguard the freedom of culture and the media. But those who do must also come to the right conclusion. It is not by trying to steer culture or the media in another direction that we are fighting those who want to target them wrong, but through radical freedom, radical freedom of expression. Unfortunately, this is not only an international big political issue and vague political reasoning, it is also about Swedish politics here and now. It is essential to safeguard cultural and media freedom in this country. Madam President, I would like For a few years I have devoted quite a lot to education policy. I would like to say that cultural policy is something of a sister of education policy. It's about having high ambitions for people and seeing and meeting the individual where she is today, but not content with it, but constantly and constantly thinking about how she can develop further. I usually talk about the class trip starting in the classroom, but it is also the case that the training trip then takes place. A skilled teacher meets the student where she is, but it is also the case that culture needs to think much more about how we, the art, the books and the theatre meet those who today do not take part in much. I also think that there is a need for a radical education commitment in this country. Not least in order to meet the populist tendencies that exist, we must have expectations that people want to learn, form more and understand more of themselves and of their surroundings. But it must also be the case that the institutions, publishers and others who represent literature and works of art are thinking about how they can reach beyond their bubble. It is not only the case that there are some who are in a bubble and do not consume culture, but also that those who today largely create culture are in another bubble. We need to think about how these two meet each other. I believe, Madam President, that radical freedom must be combined with a radical view of education. Education must be promoted. Formation involvement needs to be enhanced. It is about an educational ideal that is very radical but which also gives people a lot of freedom. Madam President, I would like In the next few years, I believe that cultural and media policy will be central to the Swedish political debate. I also believe that two important and crucial points of view are the creation of radical freedom and a radical vision of education.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1723	Madam President, I would like One of my heart issues is the importance of outdoor life for public health. I believe in the role of sport and outdoor life in terms of meaningful leisure activities, public health and, not least, rehabilitation. Research shows that nature and outdoor life have a strengthening and healing effect in case of illness or other ill health. Millions of Swedes, including hundreds of thousands of children, are members of one of the outdoor organisations that exist throughout the country. By adding resources to preserve, use and develop natural heritage and outdoor life, they can be used in the public health work. It is also of great importance to focus on accessibility and choice, thus opening up to more people. Nature and outdoor life can also be of great help in rehabilitation, whether it is a matter of physical or mental illness. Active rehabilitation is based on the individual's own conditions and abilities and can in a natural way show how to live an active life through physical activity. Madam President, I would like Nordforsk is an organisation under the Nordic Council of Ministers that finances and creates the conditions for Nordic cooperation in research and research infrastructure. By funding and administering research programmes, Nordforsk brings together national environments and secures high quality research. Increased efficiency, impact and quality in Nordic research collaboration, and thus contributing to the Nordic region being a world leader in research and innovation, are key objectives. Research in outdoor life is a broad and multidisciplinary field that includes large and extensive societal issues. These include sustainable development, an ageing population, school working arrangements, regional development and rural areas. For this reason, there are reasons why research in the field should be promoted and supported. Its great and well-documented importance for people's quality of life is highly valued, and research is of great importance to large groups. Research contributes knowledge base to development and how it is managed as a public interest. In view of this, it is positive to highlight the prerequisites for research in these areas, both from a national interest perspective and in the Nordic cooperation.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1731	Madam President, I would like I am a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and I am therefore going to talk today about cultural issues and democracy. Culture concerns us all and is linked to many other policy areas, and not least the issue of the existence or non-being of democracy. Madam President, I would like The Social-Democratic view of man always starts from the equal value of all men. It's about everyone, no matter where they come from, what their origins are and what parents they have being able to realize their dreams and evolve into their best self. Everyone should have the opportunity to develop and take part in culture. Culture should be accessible to all so that everyone living in our country is given the opportunity to live a good and meaningful life. This is important in order for everyone to have the opportunity to participate in and contribute to our democratic society. Madam President, I would like A democratic society is not something we can take for granted. That's something we have to work all the time to keep it there. Here culture and education have important work to do. Social Democratic community building is based on the commitment of Sweden's inhabitants and on the participation and contribution of the inhabitants to the development of our society. Culture contributes to the cohesion of our society. We Social Democrats therefore believe that there should be a wide range of high-quality cultural services throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The initiative to create a living cultural life comes primarily from the inhabitants themselves. Therefore, it is necessary to have meeting places and accessible premises for cultural and association life in order for everyone to be able to participate in cultural life. The cultural heritage we have today has provided us with the cultural creators of previous generations. The cultural creators who live and work today create cultural heritage for future generations. If we want to increase the understanding of different traditions and strengthen the links between them, it is necessary to promote cultural exchanges between individuals, social classes and groups. We will jointly create culture and stories that bind us together and create a better society in the world. Madam President, I would like Culture helps to strengthen democracy, develop our language and create jobs, and it contributes to people's sense of community. For me as a social democrat, it is incredibly important.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1739	Madam President, I would like I'm going to spend the next few minutes saying a few words about the General Heritage Fund. The general inheritance fund was established by the Riksdag in 1928 after the decision that the right of succession was defined so that the parents or those with an even longer distance in the relationship with the deceased were no longer counted at the right of inheritance. If the heir does not exist and the will has not been established, the property of the deceased will thus fall to the General Heritage Fund. Kammarkollegiet will ensure that the money comes in from estates, manage the fund in the best possible way and pay out money for projects granted. Associations and other organisations may apply for project support from the Fund. The Inheritance Fund delegation then decides on the projects to be supported. During 2017, SEK 597 million was distributed. The General Inheritance Fund regulation states that it will support projects involving children aged 0 – 11 years, adolescents aged 12 – 25 years and persons with disabilities of all ages. These are projects which, of course, should be different from political positions. Today, unfortunately, some of the contributions paid are distributed to organisations that are highly politicised. One of the examples of how the contributions paid are distributed is the Expo Foundation. It is a left-wing foundation that has actively taken a place in the social debate where they have spoken loudly and loudly against an individual honest parliamentary party, namely my party. They've done that because we're social conservative. They have done so because we protect our traditions and our culture. They have done so because we are critical of immigration policy. Unfortunately, according to Expo, this is tantamount to being extremist, xenophobic and racist. I would like to emphasise that I do not recognize myself or any of my party friends in that description at all. A project that has received a grant from the Swedish National Heritage Fund is led by the Association of Movement People's Schools, which collaborates with the Expo Foundation. The goal of the project Include more is to develop methods to combat racism. That is, of course, great, and we welcome that. The problem in this case, however, is that we know the Expo agenda and what Expo means when they talk about everyday racists and xenophobics. They mean all of us, at least one million people in this country, and more with us, who are critical of the irresponsible immigration policy conducted in our country for decades. It's us critical voices Expo wants to counteract through various projects. It is Expo that the National Heritage Fund pays grants to. Thus, even the inheritance of deceased persons is not now exempt from extreme left-wing views. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to show respect for the citizens in the exercise of their authority, in this case respect for the life and will of the deceased. The state does not know what political opinion the deceased has had, for example. It is therefore very unfortunate to involve politics also in the legacy of deceased citizens. It is therefore necessary to review how and to which organisations support is paid out, and the Riksdag should re-evaluate which organisations are to receive support. It is appropriate to pay out this support to something that affects the entire Swedish people and that everyone can support.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1748	Madam President, I would like I'm not going into the discussion about the General Heritage Fund. On the other hand, I have some comments on the mapping of Expo and what it is you are saying in the speaker's chair. It is well clear that the shoe squeezes when Expo is working to make visible why the Swedish Democrats were formed in 1988, who the first party leader Anders Klarström was, what his political commitment really was based on and what the developed cooperation that the Swedish Democrats have had with Euronat looks like. Of course, that is why you have views on Expo's activities. My question to the honourable Member is this: is it not precisely where the shoe is squeezed?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1750	Madam President, I would like My speech was about the General Heritage Fund and where it pays out its support. As a Member of this Parliament, I am not satisfied that support is being paid out for projects that are being carried out in cooperation with Expo. Expo has clearly taken a stand against us, for example. We've been given the epithet that doesn't add up. The shoe does not squeeze at all there, but it squeezes because I think that the grants that are paid out should go to projects that the entire Swedish people can support. It may be cancer research; it could be such a good project.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1752	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the discussion on grants will remain a political hot topic in the Committee on Culture. We'll get back to the question. The honourable Member is not answering my question. Above all, it highlights Expo as the organization with which you have problems. I still ask the question: Do not the shoe squeeze because Expo gives light to why the Swedish Democrats were formed, what their political agenda looks like, what cooperation parties and organisations the party has in Europe and what its political agenda is here in Sweden?
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1754	Madam President, I would like It is nice that Lawen Redar is so interested in the history of the Swedish Democrats and of us as a party. For example, you know that we were formed in 1988, and it's good that you know that. Otherwise, you need to read about our history better than you've done for today. I would like to remind you once again that it is the General Heritage Fund that I have mentioned here. The problem that I see is the involvement of various organisations that have made clear positions in Swedish politics.
i-14e57dcb814fa3cf-1756	Madam President, I would like Architecture matters mean a lot to Sweden and to the inhabitants of our country, and this is something that the Swedish Parliament needs to become better at taking note of. Despite an expansive Sweden where there is a lot of construction in different parts of our country and despite the importance that architectural issues have for our citizens, these issues have become too obscured from a political point of view. There are many examples of the civil protests resulting from the lack of civic support when it comes to the architectural aspect of new construction and reconstruction in towns in the country. Here in Stockholm we have construction projects such as Nobel Center at Blasieholmen and Apple's planned shop at Kungsträdgården as such. The criticism of the said Stockholm projects has been much about a lack of consideration for a surrounding valuable cultural environment when building new ones. Although these examples concern our beautiful capital city of Stockholm and the special cultural values that exist here, of course corresponding debates are held in a number of other municipalities around Sweden, including Linköping Municipality, where I myself have been active in politics for quite a number of years. The plans that have been around constructions like those that I mention have raised great protests both in social media and in various forms of demonstrations on site where the constructions have been under way. Movements and networks, such as the Architecture Rebellion with tens of thousands of social media followers, have long tried to put these issues in focus in the political debate. Madam President, I would like It is high time that policy became more responsive to the public's views on the design of our common environments. The discrepancy between politics and public opinion on the issues needs to be levelled out. That is something that we Swedish democrats want to see to it that we work for. The Swedish Democrats want to see proposals implemented to make the public more involved when it comes to how architecture should be designed in our common environments. In order to create this participation, the decision-making of the municipal political level will, of course, play a crucial role. That is where many crucial decisions are taken on these issues. But through laws and rules, we in the Swedish Parliament can of course create better frameworks to capture public opinion on issues such as these. The Swedish Democrats can imagine some form of democratically elected council in our municipalities to deal with this type of issue. Another option could be to give citizens the opportunity to like different proposals in their neighbourhoods. You can check where people are registered and organise local votes in connection with the site of a new project. Then you can vote, for example via e-identification. These were a few examples. The Swedish Democrats also want to ensure that Sweden's municipalities have the necessary expertise to create and protect culturally-historically valuable environments in our country. Precisely buildings that are misplaced without a sense of the surrounding environment are something that has often led to strong criticism from the public. With this in mind, we have been Swedish democrats in our field of spending motion in the field of culture for a number of years now in favour of an incentive grant for increased cultural environmental competence in the municipalities. Madam President, I would like With Swedish democratic policy, we will make sure to build a Sweden that is perceived as more beautiful through a stronger anchoring of the public on architecture issues. The discrepancy between politics and the public on issues such as these needs to be balanced.
