i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-4	Mr President, I would like to Swedish trade is a cornerstone of our economy that creates growth, employment and increased prosperity. Globalisation means that the economies of the world's countries are becoming increasingly intertwined and it also contributes to the preservation of peace. For a small export-dependent country like Sweden, globalisation creates enormous opportunities, but it also means fierce competition for our companies. The overall objective of the Socialist-led government is to increase the number of people in employment and the number of hours worked so much that we reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. The export industry already employs 1.4 million people directly and indirectly in Sweden. When I have visited countries in Africa and Asia, the interest in Swedish goods and services has been great and growing. Our quality and innovativeness stand well in global competition. But it doesn't happen by itself. We have fantastic companies in our country, big and small. Two important reasons for this are, firstly, the broad, free-of-charge education system which makes the overall level of competence high, that we can train ourselves throughout our lives and compete with knowledge, not with low wages. Secondly, we owe our robust security system to the fact that many people dare to try their wings, dare to change jobs, start their own business and lose their security for a while. The foundations of Swedish welfare should not be forgotten when we talk about trade and successful entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to 2017 was a very successful year for Swedish goods exports, which increased by as much as 10 per cent in current prices. Imports of goods increased by 9 per cent, reflecting the need for inputs for the production of export companies and high pressure in the Swedish economy. Trade is, as is well known, both export and import, and the latter is becoming increasingly important in our globalised world. Mr President, I would like to Swedish trade policy is on the right track and the export figures speak clearly. But we must not settle down and believe that this will be forever. The world market is at a technological breakpoint and it will also affect trade. In order for Swedish companies to succeed in maintaining and expanding their market shares, they need to increase the service content of their business models and operations. The companies that become service innovators will be able to increase exports and lead the service revolution. There we need to think about how best we can support this development. Mr President, I would like to Swedish exports must reach even more the emerging markets, and more small and medium-sized enterprises must dare and want to export. Therefore, the government launched an export strategy in 2015, with a particular focus on strengthening the export and internationalisation opportunities of SMEs. This is where the big companies of the future exist, and it is mainly SMEs that create new jobs in Sweden. We Social Democrats are warm supporters of free trade. Free trade can, properly used, be a strong wealth-creating force for both poor countries and the more developed countries. Safeguarding the principle of free trade is therefore both a global and a Swedish interest. Free trade must also be fair trade. I look forward to Parliament deciding later today on the CETA agreement with Canada, which we debated yesterday, and I hope that the progressive free trade agreement will be a benchmark for all future trade agreements that should be as good as CETA or even better. When President Trump introduces new tariffs, when agreements in the WTO are blocked and when the UK leaves the EU, there is much at stake for Swedish companies. Mr President, I would like to The government systematically and aggressively works through the EU to develop the internal market and find solutions and agreements for the benefit of Swedish trade. But we can certainly want more of other countries within, for example, the WTO. In contrast to the unsuccessful December meeting, yesterday's announcement from the African Union is that 44 countries join forces and conclude an African Free Trade Agreement. It is with cooperation and fair competition that we can develop and develop. Sweden will take a leading role in the implementation of Agenda 2030 and this also applies, of course, to trade policy. The Government's ambition is for Sweden to have the world's most ambitious environmental and climate policy. The transition to a green economy through resource efficiency and the circular economy, sustainable consumption and production, environmental technologies and innovations offer opportunities for business development while reducing climate and other environmental impacts. Trade is driven by industry, but the state can support its operations and be market complementary. It is, of course, too well for the smaller companies who want to try their wings in new markets that it is precisely the government's budget that applies. The Alliance parties rejected the government's export offensive in their draft budgets. It seems to me to be a strange priority. Today, there are completely new opportunities for smaller companies to export and take part in the global economy. Digitalisation in the form of e-commerce, electronic payments and e-government solutions means that even a small company with the right product can sell in a global market. But here, government efforts are needed to make it happen. And that is far more important than tax cuts. Mr President, I would like to In fact, I do not quite understand the announcement on food exports that several parties in the committee want to address to the government. The government is making a historic effort to promote food exports. This year alone, there are SEK 48 million. Increased food exports are an important part of the implementation of the food strategy as well as increasing Swedish food production in a sustainable way. In total, the effort to increase production and strengthen competitiveness in the food sector includes SEK 1 billion. As the other members of the committee will know, a total of eleven actions are underway that contribute in various ways to Swedish food companies improving their position on the export market. Business Sweden has received several different assignments. The Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency will establish a collaboration forum. The Government has appointed a Agriculture Council in Beijing and a national export coordinator and established Team Sweden Food. Mr President, I would like to There can hardly be any doubt that the government's real priority is to promote food exports and that the measures focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. Several of the assignments were decided by the government as late as December 2017, and it is remarkable that the alliance parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats in this situation, are proposing that the Riksdag address an announcement to the government to work with the orientation it already does. Sending orders to the government that constitute a blow to the air leads to a waste of resources in the form of working time and tax revenue. It is time and money that we think could have been better spent. Mr President, I would like to Companies that are growing and developing are a prerequisite to further increase employment and to be able to move forward and strengthen our common well-being. The OECD has made it quite clear that countries that close their markets are losing more in growth than the countries with which they stop trading. I am therefore pleased to be a Member of a Parliament where most people see the benefits of free trade. And I am proud to belong to a party that, in a government position, makes a reality of the ambitions we have for free, fair and sustainable trade. I support the proposal in the committee's report in addition to paragraph 8, in which I request the approval of reservation 14. Otherwise, I would ask for all reservations to be rejected.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-21	Mr President, I would like to It is quite appropriate that we have a trade policy debate in Parliament today. On the night of tomorrow, the global world trade order may have changed dramatically. We are at a time when the world's leading economy has signalled that one of the most important inputs for the functioning of world trade and production, namely steel, will be subject to national tariffs and tariffs. This is a very special location for the world. Whether or not the threats will become reality, this will affect trust – and has already done so – to the reciprocity of world trade. Mr President, I would like to Trade is in many ways a tool for development, not least for the economies of less developed countries. The new era's pattern of e-commerce growth can accelerate this trend. As far as Europe is concerned, this is also extremely important because 80% of growth takes place outside Europe. We see new patterns in trade, and it is an instrument for increasing world power in various ways. Exports and imports are in symbiosis. We have pointed out in the past, and continue to point out, that the government's export and trade strategy should pay greater attention to the concept of imports. Without imports, there will be no production and no exports. In the situation we are in today, when the United States and the European Union may end up in a customs war with each other, we should consider what the consequences might actually be. I think that the government has so far maintained a good and balanced line. Eye for eye and tooth for tooth in a possible trade war creates two blind people who cannot chew solid food. It is therefore important to make the right efforts and to use diplomacy to best resolve this. We have experience of how trade wars in the steel market have worked in the past. 15 - 16 years ago, President Bush created a trade war by raising tariffs on steel. The United States was horrified by its experience. It is in everyone's interest that this does not escalate. It is also important to have ice in your stomach in this context. What is behind this type of trade conflict? Yes, it is an increase in protectionism. It looks at its own market and does not understand that its own market is completely dependent on other countries and markets and on trust and reciprocity. That is why it was very remarkable when, at the WTO meeting in Buenos Aires before Christmas, the old system of free trade-friendly countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States and Sweden did not really apply anymore. It was China's Minister for Trade who spoke well about free trade in his speech. He said that the biggest global vermin that exists right now is protectionism and that we need to get together against it. China proposes that the world should rally against protectionism. Mr President, I would like to We really do have a different world order today. At the same time, we see that countries such as China, which, with price reductions and price reductions, are cluttering many other parts of the world with products, goods and services, are now taking a step forward. The world must be prepared for this. We must face this with open eyes and minds but also be on guard. With increased trade and increased interest, there will also be other investments. We have seen Chinese players who have shown investment ambitions in Sweden. Some have been good. I think we should be a little thoughtful about others. We should be thoughtful when someone wants to take over the power of ports in Sweden and have it as central to their trade policy. This is part of the world's new trading system. Anyone who has not seen the problems will never be able to solve them once they have arisen. Mr President, I would like to Why are we facing a beginning trade war today? Just as I did in the CETA debate yesterday, I place the blame heavily on the overall left. Together with the doctrinal Green Movement, the TTIP agreement, the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, was delayed, delayed and delayed. There were many of us who hoped that President Obama, perhaps one of his last steps, would sign and conclude this agreement with the European Union. However, this was delayed, and now we are sitting with a protectionist as President of the United States. It is a protectionist who wants to raise tariffs for the outside world, who is not interested in free trade and who lets his trade minister go home prematurely from the WTO ministerial meeting. This is not good, and the responsibility lies with the overall left. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the Alliance want Sweden to take further steps with regard to food exports. We do not think that the government has invested enough in small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why we've written an announcement about it. We also believe that welfare services can be a fantastic niche and opportunity for many Swedish companies that are good at delivering welfare services. They face a greater interest outside the borders of Sweden than they do in Sweden. The basis for being able to sell abroad is that you can also refer to a good home market. They need to be able to show that what they produce at home is popular with them at home and that therefore they have the courage to go beyond the country's borders and sell their services. The government's blinded belief in limiting profits in welfare constitutes a direct restraint to enable these companies to go on export, which they so much want and could. They could do this even more. In the creative and cultural industries, much of the future export base will lie. Of course, we will always produce steel. However, as the service society develops, creative industries also become an integral part of the industry. To a greater extent, the state must ensure that the export potential of creative industries, which generate jobs and tax revenues and which create a positive image of the country, is given special support. Mr President, I would like to I would ask you to allow reservations 1 and 18 to be accepted. I cannot insist but would appeal to all free trade friends never to give up the important fight that free trade is what creates understanding in the world. That is what is tearing down walls and making it possible for us to take battles with other countries using civilised methods. But moving from trade to arms and from a civilized way of socializing to a non-civilised way is not the key to trade. I urge everyone to understand this.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-41	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for a very good speech, most of which I share most of. However, I have two questions. I am very surprised when Hans Rothenberg says that it is the fault of the united Left that Mr Trump is now doing his protectionism and introducing new customs duties. As far as I know, Trump belongs to the Conservative Party. The same is true in Britain; there it is tories and Boris Johnson and others who have driven the protectionist line. Where does it come from that would be the fault of the collected left? The Swedish Government always pushes for free trade and tries to expand it, as Hans Rothenberg knows. My second question is about the announcement that you want to address to the government regarding food exports. What exactly is it that you Moderates want the government to do? Is it not enough with the 48 million crowns and the eleven stakes under way? What is it that Hans Rothenberg and the Moderates want the government to do?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-44	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Eriksson for her very good question. In fact, I do not include traditional social democrats and the sensible environmental partners in the concept of the collective left. On the overall left, I count the ideological left forces and the doctrinal green forces, which have arranged marches and demonstrations, not least in Germany but also in France and Sweden. Yesterday I used the expression, and it may sometimes be highly relevant. Although the Social Democrats and the Green Party are not so big on welfare entrepreneurship, they have certain limitations on other entrepreneurship and perhaps do not want to reduce taxes as much as we do, I do not think in this context I count you into the overall left. I hope that I do not have to take it back and that you will stay in this sane area and will be in favour of free trade in the future. However, I am prepared to reconsider it in the event that things turn out crazy. As far as food exports are concerned, I was a little surprised when I read the text of the government parties in the committee report. That's very much what you're putting into it, like this announcement would somehow tear open wounds. What we want is for additional resources to be invested, for further efforts to be made and for more attention to be paid to the specific potential of small and medium-sized enterprises for food exports. This shouldn't even have to be the subject of a question in a line shift.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-47	Mr President, I would like to It's a very lucky thing that I'm allowed to ask what I want in the line shifts. I wonder if President Trump knows he's called the collected left. But he'll have to answer that. To go back to the issue of food exports: I really cannot understand this. The Moderates are usually a party that is very keen that we should save taxpayers' money. I think that is wise and good, and so do we. Why, then, direct an announcement to the government for something that the government is already doing? It only takes a lot of time and power that could be used for a lot of other good and sensible things. I hope you are aware that we have employed food export managers in three major markets in the world: the United States – Canada, Japan and South Korea – South East Asia, Hans Rothenberg. I hope you are aware of the regional export programme for food companies, that you know that the government, together with industry organisations and companies, is carrying out an analysis and looking at the export potential of food companies, that you are aware of the investment in the export of organic food and so on. Several of these things have been requested by food companies. You think it's too divided. What else does Hans Rothenberg want the government to do?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-51	Mr President, I would like to I thought in my speech I was quite clear about what I meant. The left-wing forces have created the conditions for a possible trade war. These are the processes that prevented, delayed and delayed the conclusion of a transatlantic free trade agreement between the US and the EU. It was the left forces that were behind this delay. Had that agreement been concluded before President Trump took office, the conditions would not have existed to trigger this possible trade war. Then we would have had a regulated trading and premises that were clear to what one could and could not do. Now there was no free trade agreement between the US and the EU. Then the field was also open to a Trump whose political residence is probably the day form to decide how to define. Then the field is also free for others to use this. Had the accumulated left-wing forces not prevented the TTIP agreement, it would have been much more difficult for an American President to launch this process. It is good that the government has done a great deal for food exports. What I am looking for and what we want is to focus on is that it is not only the big food companies that should be prioritised when government agencies and other actors are out promoting Swedish food exports. The small and medium-sized enterprises – I have met them myself – say that they are being squeezed and pushed away in the system. Then it is quite reasonable for us to insist that there should be a further focus on this. I could say that it might have been more relevant if we had talked about the major global trade issues in this line-up and not such a special detail. But we'll have to do that another time.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-54	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 11, Trade Policy. Yesterday it was also a trade debate, namely on the EU-Canada trade agreement, the so-called CETA agreement. Due to a little man-fall, the Swedish Democrats were unable to participate in the debate. Had this knowledge reached me in some good time, I would have been happy to participate myself, but that was not the case. But in this context it may be worth pointing out that the Swedish Democrats have nothing to recall but that the free trade agreement with Canada is welcome and opens up new opportunities, not least for Swedish companies. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are often said – by our political opponents – a little metaphorical will to build walls around Sweden. One might well argue that this is to some extent true. For many years, the Swedish Democrats have been alone in wanting to control which people are moving across our borders to prevent terrorists, thieves and bandits from entering Sweden. In the same way, we have been alone in seriously wanting to prevent weapons and drugs to flow freely into Sweden and stolen goods to flow out from Sweden. Based on the fact that we have argued in favour of securing Sweden's citizens from a great deal of unnecessary suffering, many, in my view, dishonest debaters have tried to claim that the Swedish Democrats would thus represent a closed economic policy and a desire to prevent free trade. I mean, nothing could be more wrong. We are a free trade party. From all empirical evidence, it is clear that everyone benefits from trade, except possibly in the short term the companies at risk of competition and their workers. However, this should not be solved by protective tariffs, but by investing in education, research and strategic reforms that enable our industrial companies, for example, to compete on the world market. If you want to know more about how this is to be done, you can benefit from the Swedish Democrats' industrial strategy, which contains a wide range of powerful reform proposals which in many cases contradict the government's post-modern flum, not least in terms of energy policy. In other debates, I have voiced my concern that Sweden's net trade in goods has for a long time been in a downward trend which has turned into negative figures during the current term of office. This is a most worrying development. Our status as an industrial nation is weakened with the risk of an opinion emerging that prefers more protectionism. This would be unfortunate. Mr President, I would like to As I said before, we are a free trade party. At the same time, however, there must be fair rules in which fraud and irregularities are prosecuted. Now that the United States recently decided to introduce import duties on steel and aluminium, it became quite a world news story that many have problematized. On the EU side, the condemnations have replaced each other with threats of countermeasures. However, if this is the right way forward, then probably all parties would lose out in a trade war. If I interpret Donald Trump correctly, or something benevolent, I may not see it as the cape being primarily directed towards Europe. Rather, the world market is abounding with state-subsidised steel from the dictatorship of China. The fact that China is pushing prices on the world market by eliminating competition is, of course, very disturbing. That is why, at least, I see as the most visible way forward in the talks with the United States, not least, that the WTO is taking a concerted approach to the various forms of state subsidies. Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation that highlights issues of distortion of competition. Although we want to reform the EU and European cooperation fundamentally, we are in favour of free trade and the internal market. We are also keen that it should work well and be of benefit to Swedish companies. Unfortunately, it does not always work as well as one might wish. We see examples of how Swedish industrial companies find it difficult to access components in other Member States at the market prices that apply there. The selling companies generally refer to subsidiaries, agents or retailers in Sweden that apply a higher price level, according to a so-called Sweden and Scandinavia price list. Thus, despite the fact that we have a common market, Swedish industrial companies have to pay more for industrial equipment. We therefore wish that the Parliament should announce to the Government the initiative for Eurostat to introduce an industrial component price index in order to compare price levels in different countries in the common market. We believe that the competitive disadvantages that are currently affecting Sweden as a result of the higher pricing of components such as compressors, robots, control systems, ball bearings and whatever it may be then would be made visible. I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 11.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-65	Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party are convinced that we will solve the challenges of the future through international cooperation. International trade increases opportunities for global development. More trade generally means more investment, stronger competitiveness and better living standards for more people. Technology transfer between countries is also a key to meeting climate change and achieving climate goals. That is the basis for the Green Party's view of trade. I am therefore proud of the work that the government is doing to ensure that Sweden is seen as an example in the world in terms of human rights, gender equality and peace work, but also in terms of innovation, sustainable enterprise and green transition. It is a work that gives results and makes Sweden an attractive country for investors and entrepreneurs. We will continue that work. The government's focus on international trade policy is that Sweden should promote open, free and fair trade. This means that we should continue to work towards progressive international trade agreements and to dismantle trade barriers while at the same time standing up for the environment, equality, equality, the interests of workers and human health. As an environmental party, I am particularly pleased that the sustainability perspective permeates trade policy. The fact that Sweden will take a leading role in the implementation of Agenda 2030 and that the Government's 2018 budget proposal indicates that trade policy will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Agenda are important national targets to ensure that our trade policy contributes to global sustainable development. A global market requires a global perspective in which we look at the whole and how our policies affect other parts of the world both today and in the future. Free trade must not lead to lower levels of ambition in terms of the environment, health or animal welfare. Therefore, Swedish trade policy needs to focus on sustainable investment and multilateral cooperation that defends those values. Sweden will therefore continue to work towards a free trade agreement for green goods and stand up for the agreed principles of the WTO. The fact that the government and Sweden in general are a strong voice for free trade, justice and cooperation is particularly important at a time when protectionism is growing strong. The Green Party has always worked and will also continue to work hard for a continued free view of trade and for climate and environment to be a large part of it. Before I round off, I would like to end by saying a few words about entrepreneurship. We have a well-functioning competition and a good business environment in most industries in Sweden. If you look at the international measurements available, Sweden usually comes out as one of the countries that have one of the best business climates in the world. This creates good conditions for Swedish companies to export and generally good competitiveness for companies. In order to continue this success wave, we need to continue to have good conditions for Swedish competitiveness and special focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore also gratifying that the government sets out precisely those priorities in its export strategy. To sum up: Sweden will continue to promote open, free and fair trade. Multilateral agreements shall be sought, and Sweden shall be a leader in sustainability, gender equality and human rights in trade policy. By doing so, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report, with the exception of paragraph 8, in which I request the approval of reservation 14 and, in addition, for the rejection of all other reservations.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lorentz Tovatt! Sometimes it is nice to hear an environmental partyist who can talk quite sensibly about trade and free trade. Trade policy is an area that has rarely been the subject of dispute in Sweden. We've agreed quite a bit. Perhaps this is also the subject of this debate. However, I note that the Green Party and Mr Lorentz here talk about health and health promotion as an important aspect of trade. It is. Then I come to a question that we from the Moderates have raised. It is the EU's ban on trade in Swedish snuff. We believe that it is incompatible with the principles on which the Trade Union is based. We believe that there are no convincing arguments about maintaining the export ban for trade policy reasons. On the contrary, the arguments in favour of opening up the EU's borders to snuff far outweigh the potential health risks to the consumer that can be considered scientifically justified. As long as it is allowed to manufacture and sell Swedish snuff to adult people in Sweden, we believe that the same conditions should apply throughout the EU. We therefore want the Parliament to announce to the government that the EU's ban on trade in Swedish snuff is incompatible with the principles on which the trade union is based. It is important for the government to clarify Parliament's position to abolish the far-reaching barriers to trade. My question to Mr Lorentz is: why can you not support this in the Green Party and the government?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the question. It's great that I'm not referred to as the abyss left. I might be able to agree to the collective left. But it's great anyway! I am not sure exactly what proposals Mr Rothenberg is referring to. Hans Rothenberg may correct me if I am wrong, but as I understand it, Minister Linde has acted to reduce trade barriers in relation to Swedish snuff. At least that's my opinion. That is why I understand that there is no need for an announcement on this issue.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-81	Mr President, I would like to Former Trade Minister Ewa Björling, who was moderate Trade Minister of the Alliance Government, was a particularly active minister on this issue. She wanted to highlight and, above all, distinguish the snus issue from the health and social perspective and instead consider it a trade issue. It is also the case that snuff in Sweden is regulated in the Food Act and not in the Tobacco Act. It also shows the Swedish perspective; we see the snuff as a little special product. It also has a national specificity. When Mr Lorentz spoke here earlier about health as an important ingredient in trade policy, I was a little hung up on this. What if a Swedish product, which is certainly not a health product – I would not take it myself in my mouth – could help people who today depend on smoking tobacco to get rid of this addiction! This would mean that several tens of millions of Europeans could have a longer life and a better health if the Swedish snus could make entry on a wider front within the EU. There are many reasons for this. There are health reasons, but there are also purely fundamental reasons, which I mentioned in my previous speech. That is a reason for trade, because this is a product for which there should be no obstacles. That is why I wonder: why does the Green Party, which is so health-conscious, not push the Minister for Trade to pursue this issue on behalf of Sweden and on behalf of European health?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-86	Mr President, I would like to I can say so much as that I share Mr Rothenberg's view in part. As an old snus, I can also sympathise with the enthusiasm that Hans Rothenberg shows for the snuff. Now we are not going to get too far away from the subject, but I am a little sceptical that it is indeed true that it would be considered that one can achieve great health benefits in a powerful export of snus. I do not know if it works so easily that many of those who smoke today would switch to snuff. For me, for example, it didn't work. I went back and forth instead. I'll leave it unsaid, but I'm a little skeptical about it. Once again, as I understand it, Minister Linde has acted in this direction, and I therefore feel that an announcement is unnecessary in this context.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-89	Mr President, I would like to Trade between countries creates prosperity and lifts people out of poverty. Trade between countries strengthens democracies and reduces the risk of war. There are countless examples in history that show that countries that are open to trade are also prone to change and are happy to take on new ideas. However, countries that agree to protect their own production or who want to shut people and ideas out are facing a dark time. China is a good example of this. China had a technological advantage over the rest of the world for centuries. Until the 18th century, China was the world's economic center. When European merchants came to China to trade, they soon realized that they had nothing to trade with. Instead, they paid in gold and silver. Then something happened. In the West, the industrial revolution took place, while China stagnated. It is not easy to prove, but there are a lot of researchers who say that this was probably because the traditional Chinese philosophy was too backward and conservative compared to the Enlightenment of the 1700s in Europe. New ideas gained momentum in Europe, while China instead moved towards more solitude and a foreclosure to the outside world. Mr President, I would like to What about free trade here in Sweden? Free trade has a long tradition in Sweden. The earliest documentation I have found is from 1250, when Birger Jarl signed an agreement with Lübeck for exemption from customs duties and charges. Six years later, he did the same thing to Hamburg. In 1783 Sweden signed a free trade agreement with the United States and became the first neutral nation to recognise the new state. Then it rolled on until World War II. After the war, everyone realized that walls between countries had to be dismantled to secure peace. Then it rolled on at a rather fast pace. In 1950, Sweden signed the GATT free trade agreement. In 1960 we joined the EFTA. In 1972 we received a free trade agreement with the EC, which is today the EU. In 1992, Sweden signed free trade agreements with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania after they had been released from the Communist yoke. In 1993, Sweden acceded to the EEA Agreement, and in 1995 we became members of both the EU and the new WTO organisation. Since Sweden is a member of the EU, we are also part of the world's largest trading area. Free trade within the EU is a fundamental principle, and the EU is also working to liberalise world trade. We all know that both European and international consumers and investors benefit from this simplified system – being able to move people, goods, services and money freely. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party and the Alliance believe that Sweden should stand up for free trade, continue to tear down trade barriers and at the same time protect consumer protection and the environment. Sweden's trade with the rest of the world is the basis for a prosperous economy, for us to keep jobs and for us to have the welfare we want. Being a free trade friend does not mean accepting reduced levels of health, the environment, animal welfare and safety. Free trade is, of course, compatible with these values. When we believe that Sweden should stand up for free trade, it means that Sweden should be an active voice in the world and in the WTO and push for more and more comprehensive free trade agreements because it benefits both Sweden and Swedish companies. It is therefore worrying that the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement between the EU and the US, which Mr Rothenberg mentioned, is not progressing, but rather backing. President Trumps's threat of tariffs on steel and aluminium may not in itself be in danger of causing such damage, but it will be a spark that can trigger a major trade war in the world. It would be devastating for everyone, including the United States. On the other hand, it is gratifying that today, in Parliament, we will say yes to the EU-Canada Trade and Economic Agreement. The Center Party and the Alliance are concerned about protectionism. Both the WTO, the European Commission and the OECD have shown that this has increased since the 2008 financial crisis. The fact that the US chooses to abandon the rules of the WTO and more or less disregard the organisation is a policy that will damage world trade. The government must develop a strategy to counter protectionism in the world because it will hit Sweden, a small export-dependent country, hard. Free trade, a market economy, respect for human rights and democracy are important factors for positive economic development. Swedish trade policy should therefore be a clear voice for democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law and gender equality. Sweden should include these values in trade agreements that are concluded, and Swedish representatives at political level must dare to speak to dictatorship representatives on these issues. Developing trade with less well-developed economies is a tool for development. By trading with developing countries, their economies are growing, and citizens of these countries are given more opportunity to influence their own future. Mr President, I would like to Trade and openness create jobs and prosperity in Sweden and in other countries. The world's countries grow together as free trade rips down walls and allows people, goods and services to cross borders. The world and Sweden need more free trade and fewer walls. One thing that would make trade easier is to agree on standards and regulatory simplifications. This would have a greater impact on Swedish export companies than many of the legislative changes that the Riksdag could make. From a Swedish point of view, negotiations on the future relationship between the EU and the UK should lead to a soft Brexit, as we call it. The UK is an important trading partner of Sweden. That is why we should strive to maintain the greatest possible free trade between the EU and the United Kingdom and to strive for the least possible elements of restrictive tariffs, quotas and other barriers to trade. Mr President, I would like to The removal of tariffs and barriers to trade can also increase green free trade with environmentally and climate-smart goods, services and technologies. Sweden should therefore promote the establishment of a green free trade agreement. In addition, there must be better coherence in EU trade policy. Often, the EU imposes high anti-dumping duties on renewable energy and energy technologies, which becomes counterproductive. Sweden should therefore work to reduce customs and other barriers to trade in environmentally friendly energy technologies. With an increasingly troubled environment, energy security issues are also becoming increasingly important. Increased free trade in energy and energy technologies is a prerequisite for getting rid of European countries' dependence on Russian oil and gas. Mr President, I would like to In the export strategy, the government has neglected to see services as a crucial competitive advantage. For example, the Center Party sees welfare services as a potential export success. Therefore, the government should stimulate the export of Swedish welfare services. Swedish healthcare is of high quality and can help to meet global challenges in the health sector, such as antibiotic resistance, welfare diseases and requirements for cost efficiency improvements. At the same time, it would provide employment, tax revenues and a sufficient basis for making new medical advances in Swedish companies. The government must therefore encourage the export of health services as much as possible and remove export barriers to such services. As a result of various freedom of choice reforms in Sweden, there are companies whose services meet a great demand abroad. One horizontal problem for these companies is the possibility of using the domestic market as a reference for procurement abroad. The many political constraints that the government wants to impose in this sector limit the ability to create resources for export efforts. Welfare services must be seen as just as obvious export opportunities as iron ore and cars. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention an export industry whose turnover has increased by almost 200 % since 2000. It has a turnover of 120 billion and is an activity that cannot move abroad. I am talking about foreign tourism in Sweden. This is an export industry that for some reason is often forgotten, despite its size. By way of comparison, exports of iron and steel amount to 51 billion, while foreign tourism is an export industry, thus accounting for 120 billion. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 8 in this report.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-110	Mr President, I would like to Trade policy has become increasingly interesting over the past year. It has moved from being part of the industrial policy to increasingly being part of the foreign policy of the countries. I think it is a good thing if Sweden depends on this development and sees that the trade policy decisions we take also have a major impact on our foreign policy. If the Socialist and environmental party government wants a feminist foreign policy, it must also have a feminist trade policy. Unfortunately, today we see a government that does not. This is a government that focuses more on increasing Sweden's exports at all costs than on ensuring our important voice in the world. The result is a policy that is not connected, where one hand does not know – or perhaps does not want to know – what the other hand does. The World Trade Organisation is stagnating – the countries have failed to reach an agreement. Its multilateral solutions, which offer all countries the same opportunities, will not be possible to achieve. President Trump has clearly shown that he is doing everything he can to shoot the organization in the face. The WTO is far from being a perfect organisation – it needs to be fundamentally reformed and democratised – but it is the best we have to level out the conditions and create fair trade between the countries of the north and the countries of the south. Donald Trump has a completely different agenda. His announcement to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium is a populist attempt at simple solutions to complex problems. Trump has an old-fashioned power surge. He believes that he can control and set by putting america first. Should we be worried in Sweden? No – the signals that we in the Industry Committee have received from steel producers have been reassuring. Sweden produces a lot of special steel, which means that we will get exceptions for many products. Alternatively, we buy our products anyway and pay customs. However, the basic problem remains. Too much steel is produced in the world, and it is not good for our climate. But if something is to be shut down, it is the dirtiest production that should be shut down first, no matter where in the world it is. Then we must have governance mechanisms, such as fewer allowances in the EU. Nevertheless, there is a risk that steel from Asia will now instead end up in Europe. We therefore need to take countermeasures as a country and as part of the EU. In 2002, the then American President George Bush tried the same piece of art as Trump. However, he failed fatally and withdrew his decision. This was due, among other things, to the countermeasures taken by the EU. It is therefore a good thing that steps are being taken to ensure that countermeasures can quickly be put in place against both the US and Asian products. Answering other people's idiotic decisions doesn't make us protectionists. Hans Rothenberg has been up in the speaker's chair a couple of times. I think he's turning the story on. Rothenberg is trying to blame TTIP for delaying and then not getting rid of the left. If I remember the story correctly, it was mainly because the negotiations were running out of time. Americans and Europeans failed to agree on what they really wanted. It was not the popular demonstrations that were tough at the negotiating table. I also think that Mr Rothenberg must respect democracy better, both in the United States and in the European Union. In fact, in Europe we have systems where we take time to make decisions. Sweden is an excellent example of this – we sometimes take a very long time and investigate things for a very long time before we finish. But we make decisions. In the United States, it is the right of American citizens to choose which President they want. Trump may be a particularly bad president, but it is still the right of the Americans to choose him. But left, Hans Rothenberg, he is absolutely not. Two and a half years ago, the government presented its export strategy. It was a strategy aimed primarily at Asia and the Middle East, where it was felt that companies had the most difficulty entering markets and navigating correctly. At the same time, it was predicted that growth would be highest in these countries in the coming years. Over the years, however, it has been shown that it is the government that lacks compass and has difficulty navigating in its efforts to promote Swedish exports. Democracy and human rights must stand back – here we are selling gadgets! The crown of the work is the government's ongoing work to participate in the World Fair in Dubai in 2020. We are talking here about the Emirat State of the United Arab Emirates, whose princely family belongs to the richest in the world and whose economic boost is based on unsustainable oil extraction and the exploitation of cheap labour from poor countries, who are allowed to work under disgusting conditions in the desert sun. The fact that Sweden is also exporting arms to the United Arab Emirates, even though it is participating in the forgotten war in Yemen, makes one wonder what the state of feminist foreign policy is like. This week a new bomb exploded. The Swedish Radio programme Caliber revealed that the Swedish State Aviation Administration has extensive cooperation with a local military company on air traffic control. Swedish government employees have helped manage airports that military flights from war Yemen have landed at. It has strengthened the fighting capacity of the United Arab Emirates and facilitated their attack on civilians in Yemen. In practice, Sweden has become a party to the war. It is important that the government takes this disclosure and this information seriously and goes to the bottom of what has happened. Mr President, I would like to In November, Ann Linde's Under-Secretary of State travelled to Azerbaijan with a delegation of Swedish business leaders. This despite reports about the country from Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and Transparency International being dark reading. They criticise the imprisonment of political activists, the lack of independent media, the use of torture and corruption. The Swedish company Bombardier has been shaken by a legal process concerning suspected corruption in Azerbaijan, a case that has not yet been decided. In the Council of Europe too, the Azerbaijan delegation has been accused of bribery and corruption. Ericsson, who was on the journey, has been associated with companies used for money laundering. Despite this, the Swedish Government chooses to go there. It continues to select with precision oily dictatorships such as the United Arab Emirates and most recently Azerbaijan. So does the government just make mistakes in trade policy? No, there are also good examples where the government tries to marry a positive development with trade, such as the visit of the Minister of Trade to Palestine and Israel. Although there are plenty of dark clouds in the sky, functioning trade and exports from the West Bank are crucial for a positive development in the world's oldest conflict area. The Treaty of Lisbon has moved the power to negotiate trade agreements from Sweden to the EU. The Left Party is critical of several of the negotiations that the EU is now conducting in terms of both way and content. It is a lack of transparency, and the EU is pursuing a line that will give large companies greater power and the opportunity to sue states. The TISA trade agreement risks leading to a continuing imbalance in the world between rich states in the North and poorer states in the South. And this afternoon, the Riksdag will vote on the CETA agreement in a vote that seems to be going in the wrong direction, when Sweden says yes to the most problematic parts of the agreement. The EU has signed comprehensive trade agreements on political cooperation with several authoritarian regimes such as Morocco and Egypt. During the Swedish Presidency of the EU, negotiations were opened for an agreement with the dictatorship in Syria. Negotiations were also opened with Libya. But no country has had such deep and extensive cooperation with Israel, even though it continues to violate international law and ignore UN resolutions. The EU is currently negotiating a trade agreement with Morocco. When the agreement is in place, it will be the most comprehensive trade agreement the EU has ever had with any Mediterranean country. The Left Party believes that issues of trade and economic cooperation cannot be decoupled from issues of international law and human rights. As a member of the EU, Sweden should work to ensure that future trade agreements are conditional on respect for human rights and international law and support for the rights of Western Sahara. Mr President, I would like to I noted that when Åsa Eriksson raised the issue of food exports in a change of line with Hans Rothenberg, he thought it was a small issue. However, a few minutes later, Mrs Rothenberg had no problem with the export of a food, snuff, in a replica with Mr Lorentz Tovatt. The announcement made by the bourgeois parties today, together with the Swedish Democrats on food exports, only seems to me to be pushing. Last year, we agreed in Parliament on a food strategy. Since then, substantial efforts have been made on food exports at a level that we have not seen for a very long time. This announcement will then be reached. I just find that deeply regrettable. On behalf of the Left Party, I would like to endorse our reservation 5. We have four reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-135	Mr President, I would like to From the beginning I had not planned to take the line at Håkan Svenneling ; then I got a lot of reasons to take the line at Håkan Svenneling. Let's start with the last, snus. It is a question of principles for both what can be exported and what can be traded within the European Union. That's a big question. This is a matter of fundamental importance. It will concern other products that also have national characteristics. It will also affect jobs – creating new ones and replacing old ones. It would be interesting to hear Håkan Svenneling take a discussion with the trade union at Swedish Match, where he says, "No, you should not be able to expand your business." I don't want your jobs to be any more. I don't want you to be able to have any more colleagues. Is that what Håkan Svenneling believes should be the principle when it comes to handling snuff as a commodity? I can't avoid getting into the TTIP. You in the Left Party say from time to time that you are in favour of free trade, but all your arguments and actions arrive in the fact that there is less trade and less agreement. You're going as far as possible. By delaying, preventing and delaying and requesting further investigations, if any, you will ensure that every negotiation, if it does not go on stand-by, is properly delayed. That is exactly what happened in the TTIP negotiations. It may be difficult to understand a somewhat complicated line of thought, but the fact that the Left got in the way when the EU was negotiating TTIP with the US and engaging in delay mechanisms meant that there was no agreement. We got a new president who doesn't belong to the left. He hardly belongs to anything. He is not limited by the trade agreement that could have become and is thus able to kick-start a trade war. Honestly, Håkan Svenneling! Don't you and your party mates feel some kind of guilt in this regard?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-141	Mr President, I would like to I must honestly say that I am a little surprised that Mr Rothenberg is taking a line on me when he had the opportunity before me to take a line on a Swedish democrat named Josef Fransson, who is one of the five members of the Swedish Parliament who have said that they thought Donald Trump would win. Then Hans Rothenberg won't take his line, but it's me he's aiming for. He's trying through a strange mind-whip, a strange thought experiment that he's doing, saying that it's my fault that TTIP has fallen. I think that the TTIP has fallen for the wrong reasons, and I have said this several times in this House. I don't like Donald Trumps's trade policy very much. I think it's protectionist in a way that I don't think is good for the USA, Sweden or the world at large. What I objected to with TTIP was not an increase in cooperation between the EU and the US. In essence, I think it is important to protect the exports that Sweden has to the USA and the imports that we have from the USA. I would certainly not have had any problem getting cheaper Converse shoes by reducing the tariffs on shoes to the EU and Sweden. But TTIP was something else. Mr Rothenberg knows that very well, because it is part of what Mr Rothenberg thinks is important about the TTIP agreement. He thinks it is important that big companies should be able to sue states, that they have this court now called the ICS. It has had some different names during the journey, such as ISDS. That is what becomes so clear to me – that Hans Rothenberg is trying to make me appear as a protectionist when I only question the way in which Hans Rothenberg wants to conduct free trade. It is for me two completely different things to be against free trade and to be against our way of doing free trade. I want to see fair and free trade where small and developing countries have the same opportunities as well industrialised countries in the north to pursue trade policy. It is a trade policy that would be fair to the whole world.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-146	Mr President, I would like to For large companies to be able to sue states is an argument that goes like a mantra through all negotiations between nations and the EU. But the consequence of the perfect fixation of the Left that large companies should not be able to sue states is that small and medium-sized enterprises have less opportunity to trade. It is the consequence that the TTIP agreement could not be concluded. It goes again in every context and in every free trade agreement – South Korea possibly not included. I raised this in yesterday's debate. There was no one on the list of speakers who wanted to discuss that free trade agreement. But in almost every context, the tactics of the Left are to delay, delay, slow down, and drag it out so that there are no agreements left. I would like to show that the consequences of the method that you are using are openings for, for example, a trade war on steel tariffs. The European Union, or the old European Community, was created on the basis that coal and steel would not be a restriction on peaceful association. Now it's steel that you're fighting about. I find it sad that the Left does not see the consequences of its actions. I don't expect to get an answer to what Håkan Svenneling will say to the union club at Swedish Match. It'll probably be an interesting conversation. I would, however, like to hear what countermeasures Håkan Svenneling thinks the EU should take against the US. I recommend that we should not have an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, but a balanced approach. It sounded like Svenneling in that context was a little more military.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-151	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really think we were going to land in the TTIP discussion today. Those aren't the papers I brought with me. But it is interesting that Mr Rothenberg and I always end up here when we debate. Nevertheless, Hans, the United States is one of Sweden's most important trading partners – the largest outside Europe. Norway is the biggest. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are already trading with the United States, and there is certainly a possibility of increasing this trade even more if we work together. However, the problem is that you have wanted to push democracy in the face of the trade agreement between the European Union and the United States with which you have been involved. That is why I have been against the TTIP agreement. I have not been against all the elements, but large parts of the dispute settlement mechanisms. Mr Rothenberg heard me correctly when he perceived me as a little more positive than I perceive him to be in terms of countermeasures on the part of the European Union. I think it's a dangerous way to let Donald Trump dictate the terms anyway and never have an idea of what countermeasures to take. A little over 15 years ago, George Bush did what Trump is thinking now. At that time, countermeasures were taken by the EU, and it worked. I think this is proof that countermeasures work. It is therefore a good thing that the EU is taking steps towards counter-measures. I believe that this is important in order to show Trump that his policy has consequences. Above all, I am concerned about the by-products that will come from Asia and the consequences they will have for the steel price in Europe and for Swedish producers. On the other hand, I am not in favour of some European action, not just on the part of the left. The French, for example, want more protectionism and to impose tariffs on everything that does not come from France. I do not think that is the way forward for the EU or for Sweden.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-157	Mr President, I would like to A ghost goes through the world; it is the ghost of protectionism. Experts from all corners of the world bear witness to the same thing: there is a new spirit of time in trade policy. The protectionist forces are growing. Customs duties and barriers to trade are becoming more common. Politicians like to pretend that nations can manage on their own, without cooperation and exchange with their neighbors. Nothing could be more wrong. In trade policy, the same motto applies as in security policy: alone is not strong – alone is only alone. We need each other for a successful and safe world. The great success of free trade, which has led to millions of people rising out of poverty, has now been slowed down by something. But it's not just protectionists mobilizing. Since President Trump began threatening steel tariffs, free trade friends around the world have also mobilised. We in the EU are united in the defence of the WTO and the international trade regime. For global trade to work, we need our common rules. For Liberals as big free trade friends, it is therefore worrying when the US blocks the appointment of new judges to the WTO. Without common rules, there is anarchy in world trade, and that benefits no one. Mr President, I would like to When the United States threatens new tariffs, we stand united in the European Union. We are defending current trade rules. We have also noticed that more people are now turning to us in the EU, since the US took the more anti-trade line. The EU is becoming a little more interesting as a partner. One such example is the EU's negotiations with Mercosur, where more progress has recently been made since the US closed its door. Unfortunately, however, the EU also has a great deal to be ashamed of. There are Member States which are far from free trade friends. The EU has its own customs and trade barriers to protect its industry. France's President Macron inspires in many areas, but last autumn he signalled that he wanted to slow down the EU's ongoing negotiations with Mercosur. There's nothing to be proud of. Sweden's voice is needed here. We need to push to tear down more trade barriers and offer resistance when EU countries are trying to put a stop to it. We will be an active voice in the world and within the EU and the WTO to push for more global free trade agreements. Swedish trade policy should be a clear voice for democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law and gender equality. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the government should develop a strategy to counter protectionism in the world. The new trend must be actively countered, we believe. We need to build stronger alliances with free trade friends in Europe and the rest of the world. There is no better time to do this than now. Liberals welcome the fact that, on this issue, there is a consensus across block borders. The Social Democrats have a stable free trade-friendly basis, which means that our Swedish voice in trade policy has been able to remain strong even over government shifts. We'll be proud of that. There are, however, other things to be desired, for example, with regard to the EU's internal market and trade in services. Unfortunately, the government here is somewhat reluctant. Trade in services is still a highly regulated area in the EU, and we know that we could have been 10% richer if we had liberalised that market. Mr President, I would like to For Sweden, globalisation has been a success story. We are an open country that has benefited for centuries from trade with others. As a small economy, we depend on contact with others. Because alone isn't strong. Alone is just alone. I request the approval of reservation 1 under paragraph 1 and reservation 9 under paragraph 4.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-167	Mr President, I would like to When you are the last speaker in a debate, it somehow calls for something new to be added. Then it is important to listen to your colleagues before and not just rely on your pre-written speech. It is important to find the new points on the subject in question. That is why I do not intend to touch on steel tariffs, common standards or the importance of different parts of the export strategy so much, but just to raise a very important issue. Today, many of Sweden's trade agreements are concluded through the EU, and other parts of the EU's policy also affect changes in international trade. It is therefore incredibly important that Sweden push for a fair trade policy also at EU level. The new universal sustainability objectives are ambitious and comprehensive. For us to reach them requires a series of changes. A fairer world trade is an important part of this. Trade that lifts farmers and employees out of poverty so that they themselves are given the opportunity to invest in measures to protect their local environment, manage the consequences of climate change and also reduce their own climate impact is of course extremely important. The Alliance has written in its joint motion that Swedish trade policy should be a clear voice for democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law and gender equality. One might, of course, ask how this is done. Despite all positive initiatives involving companies, such as the UN Global Compact, developments in the world are generally far too slow. Swedish companies should, we believe Christian Democrats, be encouraged to be examples, not just here in our own country, where we have regulation and legislation that helps. These values must also be carried abroad. These are business ethics, working conditions, environmental considerations and social responsibility. Trade that sets an example opens up the conditions for greater consideration of human rights and good conditions. Mr President, I would like to Not very long ago, Statskontoret was commissioned by the Government to investigate whether there are significant shortcomings in Swedish legislation in relation to UN principles, and whether there are shortcomings in the possibilities to make up for business-related violations of human rights. The new report, which came just recently, says that companies such as legal persons are not subject to criminal law, and our analysis shows that rules on corporate fines have limited effect in practice. Natural persons operating in companies can often escape liability because it is relatively difficult to prove that a natural person in a leading position or a board individually committed a crime. As there is no jurisdiction for Swedish courts to review most business-related human rights violations taking place abroad, many of them are left without follow-up. In addition, Statskontoret writes that a serious shortcoming is that company law does not at all require companies to take human rights into account. One consequence of this is that human rights become secondary interest after profit interests, that it is not mandatory for companies to implement human rights, that implementation becomes subjective and to the extent of resources and will. If you are going to take what Statskontoret has come up with seriously, it is particularly strange that both Agenda 2030 and the Government emphasise the role of industry as a player and partner for sustainable global development. Why, then, does it not, in its so-called promotion trips, demand that all companies that are to be allowed to join also work with human rights? Mr President, I would like to I protect the Swedish defence industry. Only the other day I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Defence on the Swedish defence industry. A director of information in one of the major Swedish companies in defence-related industry said in a radio interview: The question of human rights is left to others with a warm hand to theorize around. Our positions are industrial. Then the reporter asked the follow-up: So you are not looking at any other ethical and moral parameters? Do I understand you correctly? The company representative replied: Why should we do that? Then I was concerned. In this Parliament, however, we have certain principles. We have values – we can call them Swedish values or fundamental values for society as a whole to work. If we are to export Swedish industrial products, we must also be able to discuss which companies have the value we claim to stand for. The same demands must then be made on all companies, regardless of their activities and regardless of the countries to which the promotion trips are made. Barely two years ago, there was a report from Business Sweden called New Location for Swedish Business in Iran. Iran is a country with many views on human rights. There are also many contacts between Sweden and China. Good business relations are absolutely important – I myself have spoken at China – Sweden Business Forum – but there is a problem where human rights must not be forgotten. We must not waver and dare not talk about these issues. Mr President, I would like to Trade is better than war. That was the basis of the Coal and Steel Union, which is now the European Union. But we must never forget the values on which trade and exports must rest, namely respect for human dignity. I support reservations 1, 12 and 17.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-183	Mr President, I would like to In this debate on the Air Transport Committee's report, TU10, I wanted to raise a few points that are important to us Social Democrats. However, I would like to begin by giving some praise to the bourgeois opposition. It is about the good and constructive work in connection with the committee dealing with the motion for a resolution on remote air traffic control. The members of the other parties are, of course, allowed to speak for themselves, but I believe that I am at least close to the truth when I say that the committee is united in feeling some concern about how the introduction of remote air traffic control at airports in Sweden is implemented and how it is handled by different parties. The committee does not make any announcement on this issue, but I still think that the committee makes an important point in the opinion. We say there that we note with satisfaction that the Government intends to take an initiative in this matter and will instruct the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority to investigate the consequences of the introduction. This is good, because in essence the development of remote control is about something that is positive, a technology that we have developed in Sweden and that can mean that hard-pressed smaller airports can get some financial relief if you handle the issue properly. This also means that small airports can be kept open a larger part of the day as they can be remotely controlled from another location. Basically, the technology is interesting, good and important for Sweden. However, the information we have gathered in committee on various occasions gives rise to concern. Against this background, the Government's mission to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration is very timely. In committee, we have questions about security, systemic impact and financial consequences which unfortunately are not answered as clearly as would be necessary, despite the fact that all the parties involved were at the committee's hearing. For me personally, and certainly for many more, an extra dimension in the whole is that it should make extremely good arguments for me to feel comfortable with Swedavia centralizing air traffic control to the Stockholm area. It should be very good arguments, and we have not really seen those arguments. In the report, the Committee also stresses the importance of a transparent process in which all those involved – airport users and staff – gain insight into the work of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia and have the opportunity to make their views known. I think it is crucial for the future of remote air traffic control in Sweden that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority takes on board the criticism that has existed and exists. This was the praise of the bourgeois opposition, which agreed to be constructive in these parts. Now the praise is over, and so I turn to the other parts that I think are important. The next item is linked to the debate over the last few weeks and months on whether or not we can fly more in the future. It is a good and welcome debate. First of all, we must realise that there are problems in terms of climate and aviation. The ambitions of this government in terms of environmental and climate work, I think, are fairly broad in agreement. Not least, the climate law that Parliament has decided that the vast majority of parties see the climate issue and the threats from emissions as a major issue for the future. Although aviation emissions are beyond the target we have adopted for a 70% reduction in emissions from the transport sector by 2030, aviation cannot be excluded from the work that needs to be done to reduce emissions. Then it is clear that many people ask themselves the question and ask us politicians: can we continue to increase our flight? Can we fly on holiday and on business trips, domestic and foreign, just as we have before? In order for us to find out the answer to that question, I think we need to see the different modes of transport in a context. We need to think about the way we fly today. We need to think about how other modes of transport can take over certain parts where we use flights today. We and this government have proposed that Sweden should start building new high-speed rail lines. It is a way to switch flights to environmentally friendly rail travel. The government has proposed, and the Riksdag has decided, that we should introduce a flight tax. That is another way of dealing with the issue. It is also a question of having to take the consequences if you pollute, and you have to pay for it. The third issue initiated by the government is the establishment of an investigation into biofuels in aviation. Can we change the flight so that we fly more on environmentally friendly fuel? These are three initiatives that I believe are important for the future when we ask ourselves: can we continue to fly? If the conversion to biofuels is not successful, the share of aviation in emissions in the transport sector will be even greater. In a report, Nordea points out that SAS is the company of Swedish listed large companies that increases its emissions most. You have to be able to see that. You have to be able to take that to heart. Here comes my criticism of the bourgeois side. When we discuss and argue for flying or to limit flying, some bourgeois parties cannot even admit that aviation is an environmental problem. It also has a large part of the fly globe village a little problem with. Of course, it will be very difficult to motivate people to limit their flying or to take the consequences of flying if you do not even think it is a problem for the environment. I therefore believe that the first thing the bourgeois should do is to think about their aviation policy from an environmental point of view. There are two other issues I would like to raise. One is about the government launching a flight strategy. In that aviation strategy, there are a number of areas that are important for the development of aviation in Sweden. There is one area that I know the government is giving very high priority and in which we from the Social Democrats are pushing hard in all areas of transport and the rest of the labour market. It's about the social conditions. Unfortunately, I would say that this is also the area that is most difficult to work with. In view of the fact that airlines such as SAS are moving in order to create better economic conditions for the company, it is clear that this is a matter of concern. When I see that Norwegian, as an argument against airline tax, says that consumers have become accustomed to flying at low prices, it is clear that this is worrying. We must be prepared to pay the price for what flights cost, both in terms of employees' conditions and in terms of the environmental damage caused by flights. Many of these issues are at EU level. It would be good if Parliament sent the signal to the other EU countries at every opportunity that the Swedish Parliament sees the issue of fair conditions of competition and social responsibility as fundamental to a functioning EU. I have now gone over my speaking time by a few seconds, but I would like to finally mention the second question. If we had been here a year ago, it would probably have been one of the hot issues in the debate – it is about the economic situation of regional airports. At that time, we were in a very strained situation, in which the European Commission examined individual airports and questioned the state aid that we are giving them. Now it's lightened up. Now it has eased the fact that the EU actually recognises that there may be a need for national parliaments and municipalities to support important transport infrastructure with public funding. It's very pleasing. This also means that the government can provide new money, which is now being done, to make it easier for these airports. On this issue, we have different views in committee. The Alliance is against this extra money. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 1, which relates to the explanatory memorandum specifically concerning regional airports. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report in the parts we do not have a reservation.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-204	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on aviation. I will not, for reasons of time, be able to go through all the parts of the report, but I will deal with some of the proposals that exist. These include the proposal for a notice that priority should be given to work on Single European Sky. I will come back to those parts more. It is also about the importance of regional airports and air traffic services. But let me start at a completely different end! I will talk about the importance of good aviation policy for a small export-dependent country, which is sparsely populated and located on the outskirts of Europe – that is how aviation policy in a country like Sweden needs to be understood. Good air connections within and outside the country are crucial for maintaining competitiveness in our country. It's about jobs and growth. Without a functioning domestic flight, the whole of Sweden cannot live, develop and contribute. The Moderates and the Alliance are therefore the main defenders of aviation from those points of departure. We do not see flying or travelling on flights as the big problem, as the government does. It is not people's travel that is the problem. It is aviation's emissions that are the problem and that are to be combated. We are not going to fight people's travel in this House, because it is absolutely necessary for a country like Sweden. I think it is a pity that the representatives of the Social Democrats do not see the need for this – I just want to say that. The most likely bad decision for aviation in Swedish history is the aviation tax imposed by this government. It is the single worst decision, and it testifies to all parts of the flight. It is a great pity that this is being done. It is not possible to be in order for the whole of Sweden to live, develop and be able to contribute and at the same time say that you are against people being transported by air. This is necessary in a country like Sweden. If we are to cope with global competition, we must have good air connections from above all Arlanda to the rest of the world. It's about having many good direct destinations. This is ultimately about headquarters for the large companies remaining in Sweden. Then travel to other countries must work. But it is at least as important to have domestic aviation opportunities when it comes to having headquarters locally in the regions of Sweden. Then you must have good flight connections to Stockholm Arlanda and then further out into the world. Sometimes I meet people at different companies. You may not always see this on the floor of every company. You think it's only the CEO and the owner who travels a lot. But that is the problem. If owners, CEOs and others cannot make it work, the risk is that companies will be moved to metropolitan regions and, at the worst, far away from this country. Then the other jobs will also disappear. That is precisely why it is important to see the whole of this. I would like to say that I support the committee's proposal in this part, Mr President. Let me go to the next part. In December 2017, just before Christmas, the Swedish Parliament announced to the government the need for a national aviation strategy that protects regional airports. That is why we say in the text before us that the committee sees no reason for a further announcement. This does not mean that we do not stand by the view, but we assume that the government will come back with a positive approach to the motions on which this is based. We must find a model that guarantees the survival of regional airports. It's about having a functioning bloodstream in our country. It is, as I said, about the ability of companies to actually exist in all parts of our country and to continue to develop in the places where they have started operations. Mr President, I would like to I see the Social Democrats as a party that has at least historically protected Swedish industry and basic industry and has seen the importance of companies being able to exist throughout the country. With such a reverse regional policy, taxing distances, we are making it more difficult and, ultimately, it is impossible for companies to continue to develop in the places where they are today. The hope of the majority of Parliament with the announcement we made before Christmas is that the government is working swiftly with what a majority in this House actually wants. Mr President, I would like to That is how we come to the proposal from the Committee on Transport and Tourism. There we are today sending an announcement to the government. It is a matter of prioritising the work with Single European Sky. For many, this may be a technical concept where it is difficult to understand what we are talking about, but I will try to simplify it. The national borders are causing trouble for flights in Europe and mean that the routes are not straight between two points, but you have a lot going up there in the air that is not a straight flight path. What has been seen at European level is that increased cooperation can reduce routes and distances, thereby reducing emissions by 10 to 12%. A majority of the Committee on Transport proposes that this work be speeded up and that the Swedish Government should lead this work and take a new initiative to ensure that it is moving forward. If you really want to talk about environmental policy, there has not been a single proposal from the Social Democrats and the Green Party that is close to reducing emissions as much as Single European Sky could do. It is therefore very strange, Mr President, that it is precisely those parties who claim to be protecting the environment that do not want to speed up this work. I find this distressing, but a majority of the Swedish Parliament will hopefully send an announcement later today to the government to speed up this work, which can really affect and reduce emissions. Aviation tax is unlikely to contribute to any reduction in emissions at all. On the other hand, it will unfortunately lead to a lot of other bad consequences. I support this proposal in the report. With regard to the Committee on Transport's text on air traffic management, I would just like to agree with what Mr Larsson of the Social Democrats mentioned, and that is that we have had very good cooperation between all parties in order to achieve this. It has become a good text, and after the work that has been done in committee, I believe that all parties share the concerns that were raised and that Rikard Larsson also raised in his speech. Most of us are basically quite positive about the technology, right used. But we should also listen to all the concerns and risks that this may present. As I have said, there has been good cooperation between the parties, and in this, I would like, conversely, to commend the counterpart Rikard Larsson. Let's talk about what this is all about. We note from the committee that the Government intends to commission the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority to investigate the impact on the government's basic supply of air traffic control at a distance. It's basically good, and I don't think anyone is. It is good that the government wants to do this. What we, the Committee on Transport and Tourism, want to emphasise, and which the government is hopefully listening to because today we have a completely united parliament in this, is that more parties are also involved. In our opinion, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority should take help from other relevant authorities, such as the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Armed Forces, but also ensure that those who are employees, users and so on can also be involved in this process. There has been a great deal of concern about how the process has so far worked. What it is about is that if you introduce this kind of technology shift, you have to bring those who work as air traffic controllers in the towers, and you have to bring those who drive the aircraft, that is, the pilots. I believe that the voters in Sweden, those to whom we have the task of ensuring aviation safety, expect us to take this kind of issue very seriously. I would like to conclude positively and say that it is very good that we have been able to have good cooperation on these issues!
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-228	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I didn't have to ask for a line. I believe that for everyone who listens to this debate it becomes very clear that for the Moderates, which I assume is the party within the Alliance that aspires to the Prime Minister's post and a very great influence if you win the election, low taxes are more important than anything. The only priority the Moderates have in all contexts is low taxes. Low taxes are more important than our responsibility for the environment and climate. I think it is important for anyone who listens to even this kind of debate to have as a clear starting point that regardless of the question and regardless of the discussion: if there is something that one could invest more in by raising taxes or where taxes can have a controlling effect, the Moderates are against. Everything is against. I have long felt that the Moderates have evolved and drifted over to become a neo-liberal party. But when it comes to aviation, and especially when I listen to Edward Riedl, I feel that no, I don't think they are. They are an extremely conservative party. They want what it has always been, with all the problems that we have always had. Our aviation policy is based on the fact that, at the same time as we take responsibility for accessibility in Sweden and, at the same time, we take responsibility for ensuring that regions can continue to have good conditions for development, we also take responsibility for the future and for environmental and climate issues. The Moderates don't. With regard to the announcement that you raised about Single European Sky, Edward Riedl knows that work is in full swing at the Department. It's a top priority, so it's actually a non-issue you're raising.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-234	Mr President, I would like to It is good to have this kind of debate in the Swedish parliament, because it is now becoming clear that what some have believed, that it is the Green Party that has brought the Social Democrats before them to a lot of decisions on increased taxes from a distance, in fact, is something that the Social Democrats are very much behind. Let me say this: if you want higher taxes on petrol, then there are the Social Democrats. If you want higher diesel taxes, then there are the Social Democrats. If you want mileage and air taxes, then the Social Democrats are an alternative. If you want higher taxes from a distance and punish Swedish countryside, then the Social Democrats are a fantastic alternative. If you do not think so and instead want the whole of Sweden to live and that everyone should have good opportunities, there are other parties. I hope that will be clear to the voters. Let's talk about the plane tax. The government's own investigation shows that the air tax will only have a marginal impact on environmental emissions. Let me ask Rikard Larsson a question: in what way and how much will emissions from aviation be reduced by your air tax? How much will emissions be reduced by shorter routes in Europe? Rikard President, I would like Mr Larsson to answer those questions. It will then become clear that there are only empty words about environmental policy. What you really want is to treasure Swedish countryside, not to improve the environment. It's boring. Rikard Larsson now has the opportunity to answer the questions. Let me just say the following. Rikard Larsson mentioned Nordea. It is a large company that has now left the country as a result of your policy. It was interesting that Rikard Larsson mentioned Nordea as an example in the previous speech.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-240	Mr President, I would like to It's not either or, it's both. If you really want to take responsibility for the environment and for the future, which is becoming more and more obvious that the Moderates do not want, you have to do more than one thing. We must both introduce biofuels and look at how we fly. The Moderates stood for the 2014 election year and made a large number of plans to build high-speed railways in Sweden. For this reason, an investigation was set up, but there was not even the courage or strength to wait for the investigation to come up with a proposal before saying that one did not want to. The Moderates have no proposals whatsoever on environmental policy. We want the whole country to live, and that is why we are making efforts in the aviation strategy. We have appointed a Arlanda Council, and we have given more money to the regional airports. The flight's actually increasing. Sometimes when you listen to Edward Riedl you get the impression that the flight is decreasing, but on the contrary it is increasing. But if you want the whole country to live, you must also take seriously responsibility for future issues. Then one must also try to understand that what threatens our way of living in this part of the world is if we do not meet the climate challenges. When we sit in this Parliament and make decisions on the Climate Act, Edward Riedl pushes the yes button and says that the climate is good. Every time we get to concrete action, Edward Riedl pushes the "no" button. When will the Moderates acquire an environmental policy?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-246	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who has listened noticed that I asked Rikard Larsson a question about how much emissions are reduced with the air tax that is now being introduced. I note, as I hope the rest of you do, that this answer is not forthcoming. It is for the simple reason that the government itself states that the air tax has a marginal impact on the environment. In the case of Single European Sky, shorter routes, we have the opportunity to reduce aviation emissions by 10 – 12%. It is good environmental policy, and it really makes a difference. I know that the government is to some extent working on this issue, but there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament who says that this work must be even more prioritised. You're opposed to that. Just read the documents. You are opposed to speeding up what can seriously change and reduce aviation emissions. You're not in on that. You stand here talking about environmental policy, but in fact, the air tax you propose has no effect at all more than that it hits all parts outside Stockholm in Sweden. That's the only thing the airline tax does. To stand and defend it with the small marginal environmental effects it could possibly entail is sad. Mr President, I would like to We want to combat emissions on our part. We do not want to fight people's travel. It is the Social Democrats who are responsible for this policy. They feel that the problem is that people travel and that people have a need to travel. That's why you put taxes on travellers. That is the only answer from the Social Democrats. Whatever the question, increased taxes are the answer to everything. It can't be, Rikard Larsson. The only answer cannot be increased taxes. There are other ways to achieve a far better effect than just increased taxes.
i-QhaP1oRWubSzjBncTbmHrr	I would like to welcome the Minister. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Peter Eriksson and Minister Heléne Fritzon. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-252	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. More and more companies are having problems with different forms of crime. According to a report from the World Bank, crime is the fifth highest ranked obstacle that hampers the business environment in Sweden. In an international comparison, Sweden stands out significantly. Almost three times as many entrepreneurs as in comparable countries state that crime is an obstacle to entrepreneurship. What makes Sweden so special in this regard? Could it be that the government inherited a bad migration policy? Why does Sweden stand out?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-256	Madam President, I would like That is an important issue. Competition on the Swedish labour market must be on equal terms. When organised crime takes hold of entrepreneurship, there is often competition on different conditions. It avoids paying taxes and rounds rules and thus does not compete on equal terms. We have also got a development where some entrepreneurs experience threats or problems in their operations. That is why we have made great efforts, both in the short and medium term. The first is that we have commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office and other authorities to work much more clearly on these issues in order to access organised criminal activities. We are now making a major segregation effort in 32 municipalities to increase security in centres, for example. Here many traders benefit from the efforts we make.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-258	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I personally know an entrepreneur who runs a grocery store in one of Sweden's so-called exclusion areas. Thefts daily and even robberies from time to time have become part of his everyday life. Outside, gangs occasionally gather and sell drugs, which in turn can lead to many customers not daring to go to the grocery store. This is something we must address seriously. What can we expect from the government?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-261	Madam President, I would like Increasing security is one of the most important issues for the government. We have a great security programme, the biggest in modern times, where we both tighten the penalties and increase police training so that we have more police officers present in these areas. We also have a co-operation between authorities in which 12 authorities work together to get to organised criminal activities. This will increase security in streets and squares as well as for traders.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-263	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. The largest and really only major housing policy measure of the Red Green Government is building subsidies of 11.3 billion. In Sweden's Television last Wednesday, Peter Eriksson was asked about this, and he could not answer the question if the construction subsidies had had any effect at all. He was also honest that they have been used very little where the need is greatest, that is, in our big cities. So the government and the minister responsible are not sure whether their biggest and really the only measure to tackle the housing crisis has had any effect at all.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-267	Madam President, I would like I'll advise Mats Green to review the news. That's not really how it happened, it wasn't really how it was and it's not really how it is. Investment support for rental housing is successful. It started way too late, and you could say that was a mistake of the government. This should have happened earlier, because then we would have had more rental housing at reasonable cost already today. Last year was the first year when this worked for real, and I have made sure that it has been put into operation. Last year 10 000 rental dwellings were granted, and this year many new rental dwellings will also be available at reasonable cost. The problem is that we would have to invest even more resources in this in order to build housing for everyone, not just for a few.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-271	Madam President, I would like The truth is that it has hardly had any effect at all. That is why the Minister had to answer SVT's question. Grants have been awarded to already planned projects. Madam President, I would like This is the last thing we need to see now that the housing crisis is getting worse and housing is falling apart. We need real, important measures. Again, what effect has it had?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-274	Madam President, I would like It is good that we are asked that question. It has had a significant effect. We have obtained more housing at reasonable cost. The great concern now is rather that the Moderates and several other parties within the bourgeoisie intend to abolish those efforts which now make a big difference to the past. We are building considerably more housing than you did last term of office. Now, above all, we need to focus on building for those people who need new housing.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-278	Madam President, I would like My question is also addressed to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. We have known for a long time that the legislation for tenants in terms of renovations is far too weak. When property owners carry out major renovations, rents are often high because they take advantage of the housing shortage and raise rents significantly. Moreover, since the tenants have no influence or participation in this process, the quality of the renovation risks becoming rather low. The Left Party has pushed for this to be investigated, and the Government has set up an investigation to strengthen tenants' position in renovation processes. To my surprise, however, the government chooses not to present a bill on this. Why?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-281	Madam President, I would like It is true that we set up an investigation to review the position of tenants in the housing market. This investigation has been carried out, it is still being prepared in the government, and that is why we will not be able to present a bill during this parliamentary term. It is an important issue, and I think it will be an important issue in the electoral movement as well. We will have to discuss it there before there can be new decisions that change to a greater extent.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-283	Madam President, I would like I am very disappointed with this answer. The government is presenting a number of proposals, for example this week. On the other hand, it is chosen not to present a proposal on this urgent and important issue. How many families with children will have to move from their renovated apartment because the rents are too high? One in four people needs to move from their apartment because the rents are too high, for example, shows a measurement from Boverket. Does the government not think this is very serious?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-286	Madam President, I would like It's a serious situation for some people. In many cases it works perfectly well to renovate and ensure that there are reasonable rent changes. We also have a rent regulation for this. But there are also clear examples that there have been very high rent increases that make it difficult for a lot of people to stay. This is a problem. The government is still preparing the case, but we will not be able to make a proposal during this term of office.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-287	Madam President, I would like In 2018, we have adult men who receive child benefit for their children's girls. In 2018, we have children who get on buses and buy children's tickets for their own children. In 2018, we have children who have sex with adult men. We accept that, and it is legal under Swedish law. The Migration Agency has in its report Are you married? found that there are at least 132 married children. But it is said that the number of darkness is great. Yesterday, the Parliament ran over the government and issued an announcement on a total ban on child marriage. As a liberal, my attitude on the question is crystal clear: Children should be children in Sweden, and they should not be married. The red-greens chose yesterday to vote against the call for comprehensive protection against child marriage on the grounds that they have not yet taken a position on the investigation that came up last year. The reactions are strong. Heavy consultation bodies, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and others, protest. My question to Minister Fritzon is quite simple: in what situations do you think there should be special exceptions that allow adult men to have sex with children?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-292	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by being just as clear as the questioner: children should be allowed to be children. This has also been the starting point for the investigation received by the Government and for the consultation bodies. Robert Hannah claims you ran someone over last night. But it is Parliament's announcement that anticipates the formal process we have to deal with legislation in Sweden. It is the government's very clear statement that child marriage in Sweden is prohibited and should be so. We intend to come back before the summer with the concrete proposal when the referral is analysed.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-296	Madam President, I would like Being clear does not mean that the Swedish parliament is voting against a bill banning all types of child marriage. That's being unclear. This means taking the side of these men, that is, the men who are married to children, who have children's wives. I do not think it is clear at all by a government that makes the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. Yesterday, more than 100 of the Social Democrats here in the Swedish Parliament voted against a total ban. The whole Parliament could have agreed that we should not have a child marriage in Sweden. That would have been clear.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-298	Madam President, I would like To be clear and make a difference does not just mean that one has a high tone in the debate. It also means making a difference through decisions and legislation. The Government has an explicit and clear ambition to return to the Riksdag with stricter legislation that children's marriages in Sweden should be prohibited. Never doubt this.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-300	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. For a year now, private actors in the care of the elderly have to be authorised by the Inspection for Health and Care in order to carry out their activities. However, the agency's long processing times and unclear requirements have led to municipalities now having to take over activities against their own will, despite the fact that the private operator can offer good care. In Stockholm, Temabo, who has previously received the city's quality prize, is now forced to hand over a popular dwelling to the municipality because of the authority's management. The elderly suffer in terms of lower quality care, and the unpredictability increases for both the elderly and the executors.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-304	Madam President, I would like I can say that, generally speaking, I am never satisfied with long processing times. Long processing times are a problem in public administration wherever they arise. They can cause concern to users and individuals, but also to traders. So it's clear that you can't be satisfied if there are long processing times and it drags on. On the other hand, I believe that there must also be a regulatory framework in health care and care, which means that there is a review and control of who operates an activity. Then you need a permit if you're going to operate. I think that is a reasonable order.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-306	Madam President, I would like That's not where we disagree at all. The problem is that the Social Democrats have now introduced legislation that places higher demands on private performers than on municipal performers. The effect is now that municipalities are allowed to take over operations, despite the fact that the private operator carries out better care than the municipality. This is not just due to lengthy processing times. This is also due to unclear requests from the Authority. SKL says the situation is now critical. We cannot therefore just stand in the Chamber and wave the situation away as it is.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-307	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that authorities work with both effective regulation and applications that can be followed. I believe that the authorities also feel a great responsibility. I'm not happy with long processing times. If it pulls out in time, it can cause problems. But on the other hand, I am not so impressed by the fact that bourgeois parties find it so difficult to make demands of order in the welfare sector as well – that those who operate there should meet certain requirements and conditions. I think that is reasonable if tax-financed activities are carried out.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-310	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Peter Eriksson. Today, Sweden's Construction Industries released their report on the construction business. Despite low interest rates and good economic growth in Sweden and the rest of the world, new investment in housing is expected to fall by over 30 percent. Madam President, I would like There's too little housing built, if you look at the need. 80 000 homes would have to be built per year. Nevertheless, 65 000 homes were built in 2017, and in 2018 the construction is expected to fall down to 42,000 and down to 34,000 in 2019. It's nothing but a failure. The worst affects young people, newly arrived and low-income pensioners. My question is this: what responsibility does Peter Eriksson have for the fact that the construction brake has now hit and for the measures that have now been taken that limit housing construction – amortisation requirements and mortgage cap – and for the expected limitations on interest rebates?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-314	Madam President, I would like We are based more than on decades, even this year. This year, and probably next year, it will be completed to a much greater extent – more than twice as many – than in the last parliamentary term. However, there is concern that the number of new housing projects will decrease. I understand these concerns. It has been a dampening of price trends, and perhaps the greater supply is the reason for this.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-315	Madam President, I would like This is not easy. But it is extremely serious when construction investments fall by 30% in two years. Isn't Peter Eriksson worried when the level would be 80 000 homes? We're building 65 000 homes. In two years' time, we will be building 34,000 homes. The Government decided to change the standard rent level for investment support to SEK 1,550. It is a level that is quite close to what an expensive newly produced Stockholm apartment would cost. The way to face this is to include more housing. Does the Minister like the distribution profile of investment aid?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-318	Madam President, I would like There's a lot of numbers in the air, and it got a little wrong there. But much is still being built. We need to make a change. It has been built for many expensive residential apartments in Sweden, especially in the Stockholm area. We need to build more rental housing. Therefore, we are now making adjustments to investment support in order to promote the construction of more rental housing in the future. But the basic foundation of the economy is very strong. The economy is growing, more people are getting jobs and we have low interest rates. There will therefore be opportunities to build.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-321	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. On 9 September, there are elections in Sweden, and it has surely not escaped anyone in this House. We have seen in recent years that attempts have been made to influence elections in other countries. Perhaps this has also been achieved. There is nothing to say that the elections in Sweden are threatened, but unfortunately there is also nothing to say that it will be protected from the influence of other states or non-state actors. These influence operations were one of the concerns that came up last week when I visited a senior group in Munkedal to talk about defence policy, and also in many other contexts where I meet citizens this is highlighted. My question to the Minister for Defence is therefore: how does the government view this threat, and what measures does the government intend to take to prevent influence operations affecting the outcome of the Swedish elections this autumn?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question; it is urgent. MSB currently has a unit, which has also been added increased resources, which will follow different types of activities in social media and also in other contexts in order to identify in different ways whether there are targeted impact operations. We on the part of the government have also said that we are prepared to establish an authority for psychological defence. We see this as necessary in view of the developments that have taken place throughout Europe. We are members of Stratcom in Riga, which is a NATO-connected organisation for strategic communication. Above all, however, we must help to raise the level of public awareness in different ways so that people take a critical and sceptical approach to the various types of information that exist. This reduces the credibility of so-called fake news.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-327	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As the Minister for Defence says, I see this by increasing the level of public awareness as very important, and there we all have a great responsibility. Protecting democracy is one of our most important tasks, so it is positive that the government is taking action on this issue.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-328	Madam President, I would like We have a common basic view in this. It is basically a question of being able to have a lively democracy which, among other things, is managed in such a way, by both elected representatives and the general public, that one can nevertheless try to pursue debate with respect for one another and start from the relevant facts. The second is to raise public awareness of the activities of undermining democracy from outside and from outside power. The clearer that information becomes, the less effective that type of activity will be.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-330	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Damberg. I recently read in Dagens Industri a report on the Swedish Enterprise's recruitment barometer. It showed that seven out of ten companies in Sweden have major problems recruiting and finding the right skills. A not insignificant proportion of companies have also had to cancel their expansion plans precisely because they do not find the skills they seek in the labour market. At the same time, we have many new arrivals with a high academic degree who get jobs that do not match their skills. We also have many people who, at least at the short stage, do not even enter the labour market.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question, Jonas Eriksson! We see that the business community is doing very well right now. Many new jobs are being created, but we also see that more and more companies find it difficult to find people with the right skills. That is why business has been working on this issue for some time. It has looked at how to help create relevant internships, for example for new arrivals with different degrees from their home countries. Let's switch up the Job Break, which the IVA coordinates. In fact, 130 companies have so far been involved in this, and the experience is that 75% of those involved get jobs one year after the internships. So that is a very good result. Now we change this up, and the goal is to next year be able to offer 1 000 such internships at Swedish companies around Sweden.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-336	Madam President, I would like That was a good news, so I can only thank the Minister for Enterprise and the Government for working on this important issue.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-337	Madam President, I would like I believe that one of the most important issues of our time is to speed up integration. We take several different initiatives to shorten the time between people coming to Sweden, getting relevant education in Swedish and getting an internship or the chance to work somewhere. It is about showing that you can do a job and get into the labour market faster. We are now seeing positive effects. The time it takes to establish oneself on the Swedish labour market is currently being cut quite considerably, so we see a good development in the Swedish labour market – but more needs to be done.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-340	Madam President, I would like I recently put a written question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist about veterans and mental ill-health. I received a reply that, following the 2010 amendment, mandatory talks are held with all of them immediately after returning home. Six months after returning home there are mandatory reunions for all, which also includes mandatory talks, and there is an annual follow-up of the individual veteran for five years after completion of the mission. But what happens to the elderly? Take BA01 as an example: BA01 was the battalion that entered Stupni Do after the 1993 massacre. They experienced daily artillery shootings, kidnapping of Swedish soldiers and diversions, and there are old veterans who feel very bad. One told us: We came home, turned in weapons and clothes. It took two days, and then we got to go home. What, concretely, does the Secretary of Defense do to ensure that older veterans can also receive adequate help? Landstingen often lacks the skills to deal with this type of mental illness.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-343	Madam President, I would like I have also had this kind of conversation with older veterans and people who, for example, served in Congo many years ago. I have also attended the annual meeting of the Congo veterans. The main line is that the care of veterans should take place within the framework of the healthcare organization we have. Much has happened here in recent years, with a tightening up of the Swedish Armed Forces' way of following up on this. If there are shortcomings in this, it must of course be addressed and evaluated in different ways, and I am not in any kind of prestige situation – it is the case that people fall through the net and that there are groups that need additional support, of course, you have to look at such issues. I have also visited the veteran centre that was set up some time ago, and I think that there is a very fine business with a good network.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-346	Madam President, I would like However, the Veteran Centre does not really carry out this activity. We have psychologists who have been out on missions and who would be very appropriate to use. When I was in Mali about a year ago, there was a psychologist there – as the Minister of Defence knows – and these psychologists have been involved. They know about it, which is more difficult for a county psychologist. Why not use the veteran center better that way?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-347	Madam President, I would like What I understand about the activities of the veteran centre is an appreciated activity that is constantly under development and does a lot of work. As I said in my previous reply, if you see shortcomings or gaps in this, you have to be open to see if you can do something differently. Is there anything better to do? You yourself listed a comprehensive catalogue of measures in your opening question, Lena Asplund, and that is a clear sign that there has been a lot in this area.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-349	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon. Finally, this week the legislative referral for the so-called High School Act, the new possibility of obtaining a residence permit for unaccompanied minors who have been refused a residence permit on the grounds that they have no reason for asylum. The first proposal presented was met with severe criticism from a great many consultation bodies. It is not surprising, therefore, that some changes have been made to the Council's referral. But the changes as such are, to say the least, remarkable. In particular, it may be a question of reducing the requirement for identity checks, not least with an explicit justification that it is often a question of the person not being able to make his or her identity likely, because medical age assessments have contradicted the age that the person himself has stated. It is therefore explicitly aimed at reducing identity requirements when medical age assessments show that they have been very likely to lie. Why is that priority being made?
i-Mxe41aRrr47UM7pKyqmf5z	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Paula Bieler! I welcome the fact that the Swedish Democrats are also committed to all the unaccompanied people who came here in 2015 when they were on the run. The background to the government's proposal is that there were very many. They've been waiting a very long time. They've been rejected. And they are still in Sweden. This proposal is a temporary arrangement for a limited group and will apply on a single occasion, namely when applying for a residence permit for upper secondary school studies. After the consultation round, the Government has adjusted its proposal on two points. We link it more clearly to work, but we also recognise the possibility of applying for a residence permit even if one cannot fully make one's identity likely.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. My question was explicitly about why we want to remove the requirement for identity with a specific justification that a major reason why they do not have the identity is that they have lied about their age, as has been proven in medical age assessments. It is true that this is a limited group. The group is made up of adults who have no reason for asylum. Now we are going around all possible legal certainty to ensure that as many people as possible in this group will have the opportunity to stay. It is also explicitly stated in the Government's explanatory statement. Why is this priority being made?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-360	Madam President, I would like There are no changes to the rules in the examination of the right of asylum. So we can set aside those connections. This is a temporary regulation. After the consultation round, it has become clear that it has proved difficult for this particular group to make its identity fully probable during the asylum process. However, the requirement for it to be an individual examination remains. It shall also be a vandels and security clearance. If the proposal wins the Parliament's agreement, it will thus be up to the Finnish Immigration Service.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-363	Madam President, I would like I would like to address a question to Minister Damberg. This week, the proposal to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law came into force. We Christian Democrats are in favour of this. It was our party, through Maria Larsson, that set up the investigation during the time of the alliance government. The Convention on the Rights of the Child requires States Parties to respect the right of the child to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. It also states that states must respect the right of parents to give their children guidance in their development. How can you be in favour of the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming Swedish law and at the same time want to ban religious free schools? Most are well - functioning Christian free schools that show good results.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-367	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that it is the Social Democrats who have presented our views on how Swedish schools should develop in the future before the elections. We have made it clear that we want to move forward with a ban on religious schools. We see a problem in Sweden with children being subjected to religious influence in school, which means that they cannot freely create their own picture of the future. We also see a dangerous tendency towards increased segregation in society. We are concerned about a development where Christian students are at one school and Muslim students at another school. It risks challenging the community in the long term. We think it is good to have a principle that Swedish schools should be non-confessional. The teaching and training shall be non-confessional. We think it's good for the kids and for the community.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We can have a debate on segregation and secular schools in general. But this was the law of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is not only the Convention on the Rights of the Child that is being violated by a ban, but it also violates the European Convention and our own constitution if students and parents are not given the right to choose the school that suits their own convictions. I ask again: how can you get past those paragraphs of the Convention on the Rights of the Child if you make it a law?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-373	Madam President, I would like The government has taken several steps during this term of office to tighten up the follow-up of the secular schools. We have introduced new requirements for who can start a free school. And we have given an investigation mission to look at the legal aspects, such as the European Convention. My assessment, as a social democrat, is that children also have the right to shape their own future and their own religious beliefs. The right of children to develop is also an important issue when we talk about the Convention on the Rights of the Child. What we are talking about now is whether society through school politics should influence the child in terms of religion.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-376	Madam President, I would like I would like to quote the Defence Committee's December report. It says, among other things, that at war in Sweden the nuclear power plants in Forsmark, Oskarshamn and Ringhals will most likely have to be shut down due to the risks of war actions on Swedish territory. Since the national core network is vulnerable, the Swedish Defence Committee believes that there may be a need to create increased conditions for local production and distribution of electricity, for example through local power plants. ..................................................... It continues to pay tribute to the energy agreement that the Social Democrats did with, among other things, the Center Party and writes: ..................................................... My question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist is: In what way is this in line with the fact that the defence has now added an additional 15 per cent, and has a total of 45 per cent, of Sweden's surface under it as a stopping area for wind power?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-379	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces must be able to plan their operations according to operational conditions and, above all, according to what is required in a possible crisis situation, in a strong position. It is an interest that the Armed Forces must assert and assert. How the balances should look like is handled in different legal processes. Many times they also end up as government affairs. We must have the opportunity, on the basis of the circumstances, to have an operational defence force capable of carrying out its tasks. It must also be possible to have views on the location of wind turbines.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-382	Madam President, I would like I and Peter Hultqvist share the view that there should of course be such possibilities. But is it not more reasonable to try to assert those interests in dialogue with those who are actually affected? In, for example, Peter Hultqvist hemlän, Dalarna, we now see effects. It will probably be difficult to build licensed projects, where the defence has not had any views before. Is it not a problem for defence capabilities, security and total defence if we cannot build more local power plants?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-385	Madam President, I would like In its first report, it is reasonable that the Committee on Defence should address this type of issue in terms of overall energy supply and more sustainable energy supply. It is also reasonable to be able to assert defence interests and, above all, operational opportunities on the basis of existing regulations and legislation. I will not comment on individual projects. Then I step into a government exercise, which is not the government's job.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-388	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. The Environmental Protection Agency has pointed out the need for new consumer behaviour and better coordination between different policy areas. The EU roadmap for a resource efficient Europe is also addressed within the Swedish environmental objectives system. There is much talk about the circular economy in order to achieve sustainable resource management. The consumption we see today goes beyond all bounds. We'd have to work on it better. It's good that the government is working on repairs. But I wonder if the Minister for Economic Affairs has looked at this with longer warranty periods. Could this issue possibly be pursued both at home in Sweden and at EU level?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-391	Madam President, I would like It is no longer me who works with warranty periods, but it is the consumer minister or the like. But the issue has been discussed. If so, it would put greater pressure on producers to produce things that are sustainable and also worth renovating or repairing. This is definitely a discussion that we should have, not only in Sweden but also in Europe. When you produce something, it is also a question of how to design the product and make it recyclable. Many products are so complex today that it is not really possible to operate a smart recycling system. Sweden has good experience in some areas of recycling, but we would need to take a grip together with the producer industry on how to design products that become more recyclable. It would also benefit the industry.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-394	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has developed an ecological and economic programme in which we handle this. We believe that a strong welfare system favours public service consumption, perhaps at the expense of a little more private consumption, which may sometimes be unnecessary. Unfortunately, our economy is now very much based on unsustainable consumption. For example, a Finnish ferry looks rather like a Greek temple full of designer goods. It feels almost like a Titanic boat in these climate times. I would like to hear about the Minister's ideas to speed up the circular economy.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-397	Madam President, I would like Circular economy is one of the areas mentioned in the Government's Smart Industry Strategy, which deals with how we can ensure that Swedish industry is at the forefront in the development of sustainable processes as well. We believe that there is something to be gained for industry both by resource efficient use of things and by building new consumption patterns for the future. However, it is not easy to define what is unnecessary consumption, but I think we should concentrate more on making production sustainable. Then consumption will also be more sustainable. That's a big question. I look forward to returning.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-399	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon. We have regulated immigration in Sweden – a model that here in Parliament has strong and broad support. When it comes to asylum immigration, it is important that each individual has his or her case tried. It is clear to me that, in order for us to have a sustainable and long-term migration policy, we need to ensure both rapid establishment and effective return. The Minister for Industry was clear here earlier on a matter where we have done a great deal when it comes to speeding up establishment.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, for a very urgent question! If we are to achieve a sustainable migration policy in the long term, we need the asylum process to be legally secure, but if we are rejected, return will work well. This is an issue that we discuss a lot at our ministerial meetings in Europe. In Sweden, it is based on a return of one's own accord. But we ask for the help of the Political Authority when it doesn't work. The government has taken a number of measures to strengthen return. On 15 March, we also presented the proposal for workplace inspections. We believe that it is an important tool to be able, through random checks, to go out to companies in the risk sectors and ask who is staying there. It is also important to avoid unfair conditions on the labour market, but it is also a contribution to the debate on shadow society.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The question of return is important. It also leads directly to the issue of detention and detention sites. In my part of the country, Norrland, the problem of long distances has been pointed out and there are no detention places. The police point out that this leads to more difficult enforcement. But it also leads to tough conditions for those people who are placed in detention that are very far away. What is the government doing about this?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-408	Madam President, I would like Since 2016, the Government has provided additional funds for detention sites. We've got five places in custody today. But the government has given a clear mandate to place another unit in northern Sweden. Tomorrow I will go to Åstorp and visit the facility there. I know that there is an increased need for additional places, as the police have pointed out in particular. For this year, there are at least 100 additional seats. But there is money in the budget for additional seats both in 2019 and 2020.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-411	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. Many employers offer their employees health insurance to reduce sick leave and contribute to better health. Does the Minister think that people who choose to relieve the hard-pressed public health care and leave room for others by taking out a private health insurance should pay three times for their health care, first through the county tax, then through the insurance premium and now through a penalty tax? Is this reasonable and morally justifiable?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This is a very important issue, which is about the quality of healthcare and its challenges. We are now making historically large investments in health care. We're making a billion-dollar effort to shorten queues. Above all, we invest in staff and to train more staff, so that we get specialists that allow us to shorten the queues. One of the government's main focus is to ensure that we get a healthcare that delivers high quality but also increased accessibility. We believe that the way to achieve this is to invest in staff. On the specific issue of employee benefits, which some employers choose to have, it is reasonable that both individuals and employers can take out such insurance. But it is not reasonable, in our view, to give a tax subsidy for this. Our tax money should go to give healthcare to everyone, no matter who you are, how rich or poor you are or who your employer is.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-419	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is regrettable that the government sees health as a luxury to be taxed, and increased taxes do not actually provide better care, on the contrary. The government has increased taxes by SEK 40 billion, and the care queues are longer than ever. No, I do not think it is morally right to tax those who choose to take out private health insurance and relieve public health care.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-422	Madam President, I would like It is an ideological question, how do you view taxes and thus how much money is going to go to health care? If healthcare is to be available for everyone throughout the country, large investments are required. Instead, if you want to reduce taxes, there will be less health care. Another ideological question is whether healthcare should be given on equal terms, whether we should make investments in healthcare so that all people, regardless of who is your employer or where you come from, should have healthcare on equal terms. We think it is reasonable for employers who wish to take out health insurance for their employees to pay tax on that benefit to the employees.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-425	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. Lidingö has recently terminated housing contracts for newly arrived immigrants after the municipality has had to give them a housing guarantee through the State Act – a law that the Swedish Democrats also want to tear up. After two years of establishment, this means that the municipality of Lidingö no longer has a responsibility to arrange housing for newly arrived immigrants. Peter Eriksson spoke on this occasion when he visited Lidingö. What was Peter Eriksson thinking when he made the statement?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-429	Madam President, I would like I thought that we all in this country have a responsibility to try to make this country as good as possible, that we should ensure that people who have come here and been granted a residence permit can be integrated into society as quickly as possible and that it costs as little as possible for each and every one of us together. Then both poor and rich, including rich municipalities, need to be involved in taking responsibility, perhaps sometimes beyond what the law requires, because you cannot regulate everything. But everyone in this country should be able to take on a responsibility.
i-U4SgA7ajqYEH8VgSrHqG9U	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Peter Eriksson! Yes, there is, of course, a fundamental principle of the Local Government Act, which is a principle of equal treatment for all citizens. For what reason does the Minister of Housing think that it should depart from this principle and give a housing guarantee to newly arrived people before the Swedish citizens in Sweden?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-431	Madam President, I would like In practice, we have social legislation that says that municipalities have housing responsibility. For those who are unable to solve their own housing problems, municipalities have an additional responsibility. In this case, however, it is a question of reducing the costs for municipalities and society by ensuring that there is a rapid and good integration rather than picking up people who have been given a home and who may have got a job or are studying.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-434	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. I am also addressing the gallery where many young people sit. When I was 19 years old, I had the opportunity to rent my first apartment. Everyone who has had an apartment knows what the feeling is like when you open the door, pull out the key and unlock. That feeling is spelled freedom. We are aware of the importance of a functioning housing policy. The Government's ambitions contribute to building it. In Stockholm, affordable rentals are being built, and we have turned a policy from privatisation to investment. But then the right is knocking on the door, and I'm worried. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats want to see market rents and there is talk of sales of rental apartments. How do higher rents help to give young people the opportunity for a first apartment? And what does the Minister say about market rents? Does it give more 19-year-olds, like myself and many in the gallery today, a first apartment at a reasonable price?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-439	Madam President, I would like My view is that we have moved from a passive to an active housing policy in which we are trying to support the development of housing for all. Above all, we have seen that in parts of the country, especially in the Stockholm region, there is an enormous shortage of rental housing for young people and new arrivals. That is why we, and also Stockholm Municipality and the municipalities around us, need to make efforts here. It is incredibly important to have a rental level that is reasonable and that people can pay. The problem if you move to market rents to a greater extent is that there will then be even fewer people who can afford to pay.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-441	Madam President, I would like This is extremely important in order to be able to make an entrance into adult life, to be able to apply for a job, move to a new city, study or take part in our society. The question is quite simple: what do you, as Minister of Housing and Government, intend to take further steps to make it more attractive to rent and easier to get a first apartment for reasonable rent?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-443	Madam President, I would like I'm pretty proud of what we've done. Today, we build more than twice as many homes as we did a few years ago. When it comes to youth and student housing, a lot is happening. We have even commissioned a state-owned company – Akademiska hus – to build new student housing. Now it looks like 28 000 new homes will be built. In addition, there are a number of others who build student housing, partly with the help of state aid. It will solve the problem of the lack of student housing.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-445	The conditions for organising major events in Sweden
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-446	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Damberg. Sweden is a popular tourist destination. Figures from the Swedish Agency for Growth show that the total turnover in 2016 was as much as SEK 296 billion. The export value of tourism, i.e. the consumption of foreign visitors in Sweden, increased to as much as 120 billion during the same year. Within a few years, I believe that up to 200 000 people will be employed in this sector. In short, tourism creates jobs and increased prosperity. Tourism is important for Sweden and also has a potential to grow in the future. I myself come from Tyresö in Stockholm County, and I know, for example, that the Stockholm archipelago can be made more accessible to tourists. Another important part of the opportunity to grow is the organisation of major events. Therefore, my question to the Government is: What does the government want to do to attract major events to Sweden in the future?
i-XX74DziRZ12iGF76az8z7C	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for the question. It is true that both the tourism industry and tourism create a huge number of jobs throughout Sweden. The same year as it was referred to, 2016, there were 11,000 new jobs created net in Sweden, jobs that did not exist before. It is a major job and integration engine because the tourism industry and tourism create many new jobs for newly arrived or young people. Perhaps this is the first step into the labour market. That is why, as Minister of Economic Affairs, I have taken a strategic approach to the whole tourism industry. I have gathered for a visitor industry forum, and we have worked with a strategic development of the sector, with marketing of Sweden internationally, with destination development, with simplification projects and we also work with major events. We see what it means to get major events to Sweden such as the World Championships in Åre or Eurovision in Stockholm. It not only creates new jobs and new business opportunities on the ground, it also creates a very positive image of Sweden internationally.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-454	Madam President, I would like That sounds excellent. Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. One thing we have seen historically is that few cities and regions are able to arrange recurring major events. I am thinking, for example, of the Water Festival in the 1990s, but also of other events such as major music festivals. Then my question is: Can the state take a greater responsibility to support such arrangements?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-457	Madam President, I would like We are trying to take a concerted approach to major meetings and events as a whole. Within the export strategy we have chosen to have this as our own grouping that we have called Team Sweden. One should work together to develop the tourism industry in Sweden. A whole chapter in the new tourism inquiry is devoted to events and the country of meeting Sweden. It proposes a number of initiatives: measurable goals, increased collaboration, more money for Business Sweden and other things to be able to work with this. The investigation is on the table now, so we look forward to getting even more suggestions on how we can do it. I do not see the state always guaranteeing with financial means at major events. Here I think you should be a little careful.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-460	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. Last year 64 000 apartments were started in Sweden. It is a record figure approaching the highest levels during the million-year programme in the 60s and 70s. But we have a big mortgage to pay off. It has been built far too little for so many years. As an example, I can mention the former bourgeois government when things went a little up and down. When it was at its worst a few years ago, 10,000 apartments were built each year. Today we pay the price for it. It is not enough for us to have a high level of construction. You also have to build apartments that people can afford to live in. That is why the government's investment aid for the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents is so important. Now this support is to be increased. I was going to ask why and how is it supposed to work? And what effect does the Minister think it will have?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-463	Madam President, I would like That's really true. We still have a large housing shortage, so right now is not the time to reduce the production of housing. We are redeploying state investment aid by increasing remuneration levels a little bit and also enabling slightly higher rents, including in the Stockholm region, so that it will be more attractive to use the aid so that there will be more housing based on needs, not just build for a few. We also intend to give special support to those who build on one or two floors of existing housing. I think that is very good, because then you are using existing land. You don't use virgin unspoiled land for new housing. It also creates increased accessibility in the two- and three-storey buildings that exist today.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-466	Madam President, I would like I think it's very important to move on with this. Over 10,000 apartments were built with investment support last year. It's not just over 10,000 new apartments, it's 10,000 apartments with lower rents. The prerequisite for getting this support is to build housing with lower rent. Where the housing shortage is greatest, for example in Stockholm, it also needs to add apartments with lower rents. So it's very good.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-468	Madam President, I would like It should also be remembered that it has been important that this has been used throughout the country. For example, I have been to Jokkmokk, where for the first time in 25 years they have built rental apartments. With the help of state investment aid, it became instantly full. There are similar examples throughout the country. This is very important for us to be able to create a situation in which we can cope with housing debt to a greater extent.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-470	Madam President, I would like I will try to get back to the debate earlier. There'll be some butt-cut on Thursdays when we get an hour off. Let us try to remember what we were doing last time. At least I'm gonna give it a try. First of all, I would like to support Amendment No 3 and, secondly, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report. I listened a little to previous speakers and made some notes. I didn't recognize Rikard Larsson from the past. He's been an encouragement to the aeronautics industry. For the rest, I think that during the eight years I have been in Parliament we have been right in agreement on one thing: as long as nothing better comes, we need the traffic laws that we have. I think they're compromised a lot. I read a rather scientific article in Svenska Dagbladet's business section. In it it said: a lot of environmental preachers, instead of solution-oriented reality, put the power to summon guilt, shame, and symbolic sacrifices from the already believers. Inquisition of politicians' air travel and other everyday sins is given great scope. ..................................................... This struck me when Rikard Larsson mentioned the importance of this debate. And it is enough, but perhaps not the way it is applied. If we really took an interest in emissions in global order, we might instead go to Venezuela, India or the United States to put energy there. In those lands, a sermon might have done more good than here. I'm saying global, because we're talking about global warming, not Swedish. We haven't noticed much of it here. Rikard Larsson also mentioned concrete measures. Sure, it's taxes. There should be more taxes, and the worst of all they have been able to produce now with the strong approval of their government partner. It's about the plane tax. Let me say something brief about it. I have spoken about it before, and so have many others. It only produces counter-productive effects. Some time ago I had quite a lot of contact with leading municipal politicians up north. They contacted me when they were anxious about how to preserve their airports. If I may dwell a little longer on the flight tax, I don't think those crowns that we minimize the traveller will deter. We usually talk about 60 SEK for a small trip within Sweden. On the other hand, it may have a deterrent effect on the airlines operating these smaller airports. It may simply be the tuft that is destroying the lass. They simply stop flying there. And then we certainly have airports left, but no flight. I do not think I need to explain to the Social Democrats the importance of regional flights and airports to business and others. Edward Riedl and other painters have described this. I agree with him. Paragraph 1 addresses the importance of airports. Surely it will be a kind of announcement with the reservation that is there. But there's not much point in making an announcement. We did one in December on the very same issue. We have not seen any effect of that. The disregard shown by the government in announcements is astounding. This is not just the case with announcements from the Committee on Transport, but it is also borne out by many other committees. But that debate should not really be held here. I think that the Constitutional Committee should take this seriously and take a closer look at it. The government is a minority government. It has increased this tax, for example, without there being a majority for this in Parliament. Historically, this cannot be a common behavior. It shouldn't be now either. I would also like to say a brief word about aid to airports. I have long argued in favour of this on behalf of the Swedish Democrats that the violent profits that Swedavia is making must be taken seriously and the losses that the small airports have. Municipalities and regions can support them to the best of their ability. I have used Finland as an example. In that case, we have Europe as the next brake block. Finland has state airports and can therefore manage the distribution of aid as desired. That is why they do not have the same problem as we do. Sweden is now trying on artificial roads to have certain charges that are outside the traffic itself in order to do something with the EU's propensity to do something. This is definitely not satisfactory. To my delight, the Alliance seems to have an increased interest in solving the problem. Maybe I'll have to wait and see how the next Parliamentary Session can do something about this. Another thing you can say about the airline tax is that it is simply to congratulate Kastrup. I have noted that even SAS intends to move a large part of its long-distance traffic from Arlanda to Kastrup. That, of course, has to do with the tax. One might wonder why the southern part of the population should benefit from this by being able to go abroad and thus avoid a tax, which I think is both stupid and unnecessary. Of course, I am in favour of the committee's proposal on the Single European Sky and the need for joint action, and preferably global, because aviation is, of course, a global concern. We in the Swedish Democrats therefore welcome this.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-487	Madam President, I would like I did not really intend to go up in any line, but I felt that Tony Wiklander had probably neither read the aviation strategy we have presented, the texts contained in the report nor the reasoning we have on environmental measures. Tony Wiklander describes it as the only thing the government does is impose a flight tax. In view of the speech made by Tony Wiklander, I have to ask questions about some of the things that we are now doing and which Tony Wiklander apparently thinks are bad. We've set up the Arlanda Council. Does Tony Wiklander think the Arlanda Council is a bad idea? We're setting up an investigation into how to use biofuels in aviation to reset. Now I know that the Swedish Democrats and environmental policy are not the two best friends. Does Tony Wiklander and the Swedish Democrats think it is foolish to set up an investigation into biofuels? Does Tony Wiklander and the Swedish Democrats think it is bad that we are now spending more money on regional airports, for which Tony Wiklander argued? Should we give less money to regional airports? There were a couple of questions. Tony Wiklander says it's just to congratulate Kastrup. Me and Tony Wiklander come from the same country. We know how it works there. If you are from that country, that is, southern Sweden, you are already flying from Kastrup today. You don't go up to Arlanda to take a flight abroad, you fly from Kastrup. If Tony Wiklander had read the entire aviation tax investigation, he would have seen that the effects this would have on Kastrup and Arlanda are considered to be very limited.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-494	Madam President, I would like I hear Rikard Larsson has comments on SD's environmental policy. I don't know what he knows about it, but I haven't found any major faults with it. On the other hand, we do not preach. We're trying to talk about how to do things better. We will not be in danger of a new treasure as soon as we discover a social problem. I have full confidence in technological developments, especially in innovations in aviation fuel. I can tell you that the U.S. Air Force researched hydrogen-controlled planes back in the '50s. The closure was due to the fact that the situation was so different and that there was no question of oil dependence in any way. But if it is something that we Swedish democrats question, it is, of course, oil dependence. To get fossil-free fuel, there is every possibility. Hydrogen research has progressed very quickly. In Sweden in particular, new innovations are current. I think I said at the outset that I do not really recognise the Social Democrats. You were not anti-aircraft, nor were you hostile to technology in the last parliamentary term. I supported a number of Socialist proposals, including on air traffic control and the like, which I thought were resolved in a sensible way. That time seems to be over. Now you sound much like the friends you rule with. You can sometimes ask yourself if the tail controls the dog.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-498	Madam President, I would like None of the issues in which I described the government's aviation policy I received any comment from Tony Wiklander. Tony Wiklander says that he does not recognise the Social Democrats and that the Social Democrats have not been anti-aircraft before. We're not anti-aircraft now either. But we take responsibility for both regional and international accessibility and environmental issues. I am not getting an answer to any of the questions about the initiatives we have taken. But I have one more chance to get Tony Wiklander to answer. Does Tony Wiklander think it's good that we've set up an investigation into producing biofuels? Does Tony Wiklander think it good that we have put more money in the regional airports so that they can survive? Does Tony Wiklander think it is good that we have appointed a Arlanda Council to develop Arlanda? It's kind of simple questions. Is that good or bad? This is the aviation policy of this government. Is that an anti-aircraft policy? Is it anti-aircraft to develop biofuels for aviation? Is it anti-aircraft to spend money at regional airports? Is it anti-aircraft to appoint a Arlanda Council? Tony Wiklander said that he does not think it is wrong with the environmental policy of the Swedish Democrats. I understand that, because he is the representative of that party. I will, however, honestly say that I have not quite understood what it is about. But Tony Wiklander has two minutes. He may be able to publish the text on what that environmental policy looks like. Was it wise for this Parliament to decide on a climate law? Was it wise to set targets for how to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, for example in the transport sector? Did the Swedish Democrats think it was wise decisions, or do they have a different idea about the climate?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-503	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions that we won't be able to clear out here. When you came up with a flight strategy, we responded with an announcement to the government. I guess that's enough of what we think of it. You always come up with new investigations. I'm clear on that. Money would, of course, be good to keep the small airports running. But there are better ways to go. We could do it only with the excess profits from Swedavia without involving taxpayers further in this. But you won't even take the time to look at that. I understand that you cannot treat aviation in the way it would be deserved, not with the partner you have in the government. I can understand that. But it's not my concern. It's yours.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-508	Madam President, I would like How wonderful it is that we are now to debate one of the most important issues when it comes to solving a number of societal challenges, especially of course the climate challenge, namely aviation and how to deal with it. I would like to begin this debate by expressing my sincere thanks to everyone around Sweden who has contributed to the aviation debate that has taken place in recent months. This debate has been important, not only to inform the public about the enormous climate problems that exist in aviation, but also because it has forced debaters, editorials, cultural debaters and, above all, politicians to recognise colour and show where they stand on these issues. It has shown that some politicians have difficulty with priorities. Often some politicians, Madam President, have chosen to listen to, for example, the fly-glob village rather than climate research. That is why this debate has been very important in general. Apart from the fact that this debate in general has forced politicians to confess colour, it has also created pressure on us politicians. I think we should bring this with us here. We cannot just put this on the individual side, but it is something that we politicians must act on. It puts pressure on us. We need to come up with new and sharper demands. Let's get to the point. Let me start with two basic prerequisites for this debate. The first is emissions. Here there have been confusing views that have been spread by the flyers' lobby and other actors. Even political parties have spread errors. But if we look at the facts, we know that international air travel today accounts for 11 million tonnes of emissions. That's almost 11 tons per person. We know that it is not good enough to stay at a global sustainable level. Then we need to get down to one to two tons per person. We know that aviation already stands for an incredible amount more than is globally sustainable. To make a comparison, international air travel corresponds to all driving per year in Sweden. It gives an indication of how much it is. What you should also have with you is that the car ride consists of many car trips with many people; when it comes to air travel, it is far fewer people who, so to speak, stand for the whole cake. Air travel has also doubled since the 1990s. I think it is important to include this in this debate. Can we fly more or less in the future? When you talk about it, it sounds to some people like it's clear that we can fly as much as we can. Then one easily forgets the fact that we have already doubled air travel since the 1990s. This is also a central part of the first basic prerequisite for this discussion, namely emissions. Let us look at the second basic prerequisite for the discussion. I'm afraid the technology won't do. It was a very interesting article as recently as yesterday in Svenska Dagbladet where researcher Stefan Gössling had to express himself on various issues. What Stefan Gössling has done is that he has gone through all the newspaper articles since 1994 that have been about technology development for aviation. Then he looked at: What has really happened to technology development? What he says is that not a single technology has taken on a broad front that is about reducing aviation's climate emissions. It's important that we have it with us here. He also notes that this is precisely why aviation fuel should be at least three times as expensive to reach the level of the car fuel today. He notes that there has been some energy efficiency improvements but that at the same time it has started to stop in recent years. He is very clear that the technology so far has not been good enough, and that is why we will need other things. What do we need to do about it? Yes, we need strong political proposals. It is therefore very gratifying that in ten days' time the airline tax will be introduced in Sweden. It is something that has been longed for by all those who have worked to ensure that the flight takes on its climate responsibility and pays some of its climate debt. It is the environmental movement that has fought for this, and we in the Green Party have fought for it for a very long time. It will certainly be a celebration that it will be introduced in ten days' time. Madam President, I would like I have noted from the debate that there seems to be some sort of exception from not trying to stick to the alterative facts. I note that, for example, the Moderates choose to say that there is no climate effect of the air tax, while the investigation clearly indicates that emissions are reduced by 180 000 tonnes. That is the equivalent of 100 000 petrol cars per year. It is important that we stick to the facts in the speaker's chair. The airline tax is absolutely central. But I think it is not enough, but we will need more. Here the government has already begun to perform in a number of areas. The first thing to say is that we need alternatives. This applies in particular to two parts. The railway, which has been highlighted here before, needs to be improved in all its parts. But not least, we need to build high-speed lines between the three largest cities in Sweden. One might wonder why we should build high-speed roads right there. Some of the most common flights in Sweden take place between Stockholm and Gothenburg, and Stockholm and Malmö. That is, of course, unreasonable. We cannot have it so that we fly between cities where you might as well take the train and not lose a lot of time on it. The train is an excellent alternative to flights in those contexts. The second option needed is biofuels. There's been a lot of things going on. Here I would like to stress that it is good that the government is now moving forward with an investigation into increasing the share of biofuels in the aircraft tank. I would also like to warn against blind technology optimism, where it is believed that it will be enough for everything. There are some parties who claim that we will be able to run all flights on biofuels in the future and continue at the rate of increase that we have now. Those are alternative facts. That's not true. Research is clear that we will not have that capacity for biofuels. Furthermore, we will not get rid of the high-height effects which, in addition to the other climate problems, also apply to biofuels. At high altitude, biofuels have a climate effect. It is important to emphasise while, of course, we should welcome the fact that we have more biofuels in our mind. Of course the Green Party and the government are behind it. That's very positive. The Green Party as a party also wants to go further. We have several different ideas on how to tackle the climate challenge in the aviation sector. I am thinking above all of the need to be smarter and more efficient in the way we use our airports. There is a picture that we are going to expand the Swedish airports. In fact, they are being used rather unsmartly today. Instead of squeezing all flights in rush hour, market-based congestion charges should be introduced to ensure a more even distribution of departures. This, in turn, means that airports do not need to be expanded. Of course, we need to press on internationally to renegotiate the Chicago Agreement, which prevents us from taxing the fuel itself. That goes without saying. But it should not take the focus from the fact that we also need to do things here and now nationally in Sweden. Last, we need to review parts of the aid going to regional airports. Public funds will be needed to support regional airports. However, when it is not clearly justified, it is strange that taxpayers should go in and keep businesses under arms that are not profitable or sustainable. That is why we need to review those parts that have very good public transport or are close to other airports. It's basically just common sense. Madam President, I would like That's really all I was going to say. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I hope that I have not forgotten to support anything or to insist on anything.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-526	Madam President, I would like In these times transport is discussed in a very general sense and their impact on the environment very much. We discuss, reason and reflect on how we can continue to move goods and people in a much more climate-friendly way than we do today. Virtually all parties in the Swedish Parliament are in line with the 2030 target, i.e. that by 2030 we should have reduced the climate impact of transport by 70 per cent compared to 2010. It is a very tough but absolutely necessary commitment to implement. Virtually everyone stands up for the goals, but the means of getting there we are arguing quite a lot about. That is very clear in this report on aviation. The Center Party believes in environmentally-driven growth. However, we do not believe in embarrassing people who live from a distance and in rural areas, away from the capital Stockholm or anywhere else. You shame them by almost implying that they live in the wrong place. We believe that this is possible with environmentally driven growth. These ambitious objectives can then be achieved without restricting the accessibility of people and industries, mobility to the market, other people or destinations. The transport work can and must be carried out but in a much smarter way. Here the views of the Center Party and the Alliance differ dramatically from those of the government parties Social Democrats and the Environmental Party and their Left Party support party. An example of this is the government's belief in and ambition that by introducing a tax at a distance regardless of the mode of transport, one should force people and goods not to move. Aviation tax introduced from 1 April this year is an example of this. The climate benefit of the airline tax exists, but it is low. On the other hand, people's mobility and accessibility are at risk of taking a very great deal of damage. Is it perhaps the case, Madam President, that the revenue to the Treasury, estimated at SEK 1.8 billion per year, the fiscal perspective, is the real motive for introducing the air tax? Aviation tax risks being counterproductive as an environmental policy instrument. Let me take an example of this. There are several. For example, if SAS or the Airline BRA deploys a new, more climate efficient, more transport efficient aircraft with a greater transport capacity between Rikard Larsson's hometown Malmö and his workplace Stockholm, this new aircraft will be estimated harder than if they continue to run with older, less transport efficient and thus more climate impacted aircraft. The plane tax is per chair. One must have had bad luck in thinking about this tax, Madam President, when one shoots down with such precision all the incentives and opportunities to do the right thing and do better. Measurements among people show that people who fly and people who do not fly want to contribute to environmental work. You'd be happy to pay what it costs to fly environmentally smart. But I am absolutely convinced that when it is discovered that the airline tax, this SEK 1.8 billion a year, falls into the pit of the treasury instead of helping to change the climate, you will feel cheated. The legitimacy of the tax itself disappears. Madam President, I would like There is another climate perspective on aviation that is important and in which I must express my honest surprise that the government parties, supported by the Left Party, reserve themselves against a committee majority and later a parliamentary majority. It is about Parliament's ambition to push for the introduction of Single European Sky. Edward Riedl and other speakers before me have described what this is all about. It is therefore a question of making European airspace work much more effectively. In addition to clean cost savings of EUR 2 – 3 billion annually, this means that climate impact can be reduced by 10 – 12 per cent. 10 – 12 per cent of emissions reduction is an extremely large climate step, infinitely greater than the effect a flight tax can be expected to have on Swedish domestic flights. This is a very low hanging fruit in order to achieve efficient transport efficiency and climate benefits. I therefore find it really difficult to understand why the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Left Party, are opposed to prioritising the work on Single European Sky. Now the Riksdag will run over these reluctant parties and address an announcement to the government. But why do we sit on the hind hats when we in a clip could do so much more? Madam President, I would like The Center Party both recognises and affirms the importance of aviation in connecting towns and countries and enabling people, entrepreneurs and residents throughout the country to be active. The Center Party does not believe in embarrassing those who have chosen to live their lives outside Stockholm. Of course – if anyone hesitates about this – aviation, like all other modes of transport in our country, will bear its environmental costs. However, this should not be done through a flight tax, but by providing the right incentives for climate smartness and efficiency. The aviation industry itself wants this, and has signalled it, but of course it wants to do it in a sensible and efficient way. Madam President, I would like I will mention a few examples of far more effective ways of going about this than introducing the aviation tax: promoting research and development of biofuels for the aviation industry, gradually increasing the use of biofuels and politically providing the long-term rules of the game that the industry is so keenly asking to achieve both stable demand and large-scale production of, among other things, biojets. Of course, Sweden should also be an international driver so that the Chicago Convention is revised and effective economic instruments can be introduced for international flights. Finally, of course, the demands on intra-EU flights and their distribution must be substantially tightened. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to highlight the need for good, sustainable and competitive aviation throughout Sweden. Sweden is a country with great distances, and this means that there is a need for a working flight and opportunities for people to get to other destinations within the country and out into the world. Very much of the production of air transport is maintained by regional and locally owned airports. One could put it this way that these regionally and locally owned airports feed traffic to the State airport operator Swedavia. There is interdependence. However, the economic conditions for these two types of airport keepers are fundamentally different. It could be said that regionally and locally owned airports are the poor cousins from the country. There are therefore, as the Center Party sees it, strong reasons why the owner state and Swedavia are reviewing the profit sharing model that exists, or should exist, within Swedavia in order to strengthen also the functionality of regional airports. It will not be a question of shifting tax revenue, but of moving and distributing revenue from air traffic in a sensible way. I am of course behind the reservations expressed by the Centre Party and the Alliance in the report, but for time, I am only in favour of reservation 13.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-543	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by withdrawing my previous motion, because it was simply wrong. I'm not asking for anything at all. I'd like to ask you, Anders Åkesson, where you've been thinking about getting all this biomass. I am also a technology optimist in essence, and I believe that technology will be able to contribute a great deal to climate change. I want us to use the biomaterial smartly, efficiently and as far as possible. When it comes to aviation, however, it does not work that way; it is not that easy. Let us imagine that we have 100% bio-based flights by 2030 and continue with the increase that has taken place in the aviation sector – an increase that the Center Party has welcomed and not questioned. If we see this continuing increase in parallel with moving to 100% renewable, the climate effect will be exactly the same as it is now. So we continue to have a situation where we have enormous emissions and a huge climate effect from aviation. My first question to Anders Åkesson is: How can you accept such a climate effect? The second question is: should we now aim for 100% renewable – where should this biomass be taken? We are already seeing the shortcomings that have arisen in filling up the transport sector in general. We have seen, among other things, that palm oil has entered the market. So far, the Center Party has not questioned palm oil in the fuel market. We've done it because we think it's really problematic. Is that palm oil in front of you? Is that the one that's supposed to be involved in the conversion of the flight? Where is all this going to be taken? That is my question to Anders Åkesson.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-547	Madam President, I would like Let's dismiss the palm oil. There is no one who anywhere in Europe or in Sweden is pushing us to keep on burning palm oil. That's just nonsense. We have agreed at European level that we should not burn palm oil, so do not try to paste that label on the Center Party or on anyone else! Where does the bioenergy come from? Unlike the Green Party, the Center Party believes in the market and politically stable information that market players are asking to immediately start the production of biofuels for all forms of transport work. We believe in giving clear political information to the transport industry, in this case to aviation, about a gradual quota and the involvement of biofuels. The fuel will be more expensive, but you know why you pay more. It is about ending the plans to introduce a kilometre tax on the land slope, Tovatt. In addition to sending us further out into Europe's periphery, your ideas and cramping for mileage taxes, landside taxes, will greatly prevent the possibility of exploiting the bioenergy mass that exists and that is possible to convert into the bioeconomy of our country. Finally, Madam President, it is about stopping threatening property rights. We constantly see this threat of ownership and disposal rights in Swedish forestry to which the Environmental Party and the Government repeatedly fall. I believe that this would be the clearest and best information, Madam President, to provide the amount of bioenergy required to redesign aircraft and other means of transport in our country. In addition, it is about efficiency, and I have already mentioned that.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-552	Madam President, I would like This by using biomaterials in different sectors echoes familiarly. This is because the Center Party has this as its mantra when faced with a social problem. If we have problems with emissions from cars, we will use biofuels. If we have problems with emissions from trucks, which is a real problem – we see that trucks take market shares from the railways – we will put biomass there. The same applies to buses. Chemin should be changed using biomass. The plastic will be produced bio-based in the future. Textiles — clothing — shall be produced with biomass. In the case of shipping, ferries shall run on biomass. Somewhere around here, you make a self-goal in a way. We know that the Swedish forest has great potential, and we agree that we should use a lot of this potential and ensure that we can use the biomaterial in Sweden to change society. We also know that Sweden globally is a country that has very good access to this, but it does not have other countries. When we talk about changing the entire aviation sector, we're talking about huge needs. These things can't take in the Center Party. They're a little too hard to accept. They mean that, at the same time as switching transport to renewables, we must also recognise that there is a problem with too much flying. The Center Party can't do that. Instead, it is the impact on biodiversity and the lack of bio-materials that will be the consequence of the policy of the Center Party. In addition to this, it is also familiar because taxes in this area are generally opposed. They say that they want the emitters to pay, but as soon as the Green Party proposes a measure that makes the emitters pay, they are against. This applies to the road user tax, fuel tax throughout the last term of office, air tax and so on.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-557	Madam President, I would like Perhaps the reason why Tovatt recognizes the center party mantra is that we have adhered to the same policy both in government and in opposition. This is not the case with Mr Tovatt's party, and it is a concern of the Green Party. I'm sure that's why you recognize what I've said. The center party's mantra bioeconomy, or conversion, including using biofuels, electrification, transport efficiency and so on, is a much better and more fun mantra to work with than the environmental party's recurring mantra on tax from a distance, I can inform Tovatt about. I put a question in my speech: for what reason does the Green Party not stand up to push much harder than today for Single European Sky, which, if implemented in a cliff, could reduce the climate impact of European aviation by 10 to 12%? If it were, Madam President, just about 1% reduction in the emissions of European aviation – and now it is 10 – 12% – this would mean an infinitely greater climate gain than the aviation tax so cramped by Tovatt, the Green Party and the government. I think Tovatt should have used the line round to explain why he and the Green Party do not think that priority should be given to international rules and cooperation in order to achieve climate impact on aviation. I am sorry that Mr Tovatt did not take this opportunity, but I had the opportunity to point that out.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-561	Madam President, I would like I support all the proposals in which the Liberals are present, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 10. Madam President, I would like Is the flight needed? Does the flight fulfil any function in the transport sector? Does aviation create mobility? Should aviation take environmental and climate responsibility? These are some issues that I too intend to raise – they have been debated here before me. Madam President, I would like Technology development is moving very fast in the transport sector. The role of politics should be to create long-term rules of play. Politics should not take a position on the technology of the future, but create conditions. Game rules are about removing obstacles to development and enabling knowledge, innovation, research and development. It is also important to develop economic instruments that reward those who want to contribute to better environment and climate. Mobility itself is important. Mobility is good. Travelling or transporting something from A to B should be as climate-smart as possible. Mobility of persons and goods is important. Sweden is a small populated country – we have about 23 inhabitants per square kilometre. The flight is therefore needed. Liberals believe that the policy should be technology neutral, that we should design instruments that reward the environment and that fees can be used if they are useful. Taxes and charges can be used to put a price on effects that, for example, are not good for the environment. But the point of such a system is to reward those who take good environmental measures and to allow those who do not take any action to pay more. This is the lack of government policy. The government's measures on air tax are blind to those who are trying to take climate-smart action. Those who have old, fuel-consuming aircraft pay no more than those who have invested in the new, modern, more energy-efficient, lighter and more environmentally-smart planes. How is it climate smart? Madam President, I would like The Chicago Convention has been mentioned in the debate. It is the reason why aviation fuel cannot be taxed, as it stands today. It should be possible to do that. The starting point of the Chicago Convention is that states should cooperate internationally, and so ICAO was also created. International instruments are important, and we believe that Sweden must do more to be a driving force in this area. The Single European Sky has also been mentioned. That is where the major environmental effects could come from. Flying straight the way from A to B should be self-evident, and Sweden should do more to drive this work. Every day, European air traffic control operates around 26 000 flights. That is why we must ensure that airspace is used the smartest way. Single European Sky is important. I note that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have reserved themselves. Why are you doing this? The work that has been done on this issue is interesting and new opportunities are now being opened up. I note that the issue has been blocked by countries within the EU because of a small airport in Gibraltar. Now take the chance to try to be a driving force and make sure we get a change! This is where the major environmental benefits are. How, then, will aviation be more environmentally and climate-smart? Which instruments should be used? What is the responsibility of politics? What is the responsibility of travellers – or the aviation industry –? There are, of course, a number of different measures to be taken. These are new fuels that are also economically reasonable. These are differentiated landing charges based on the amount of biofuels used in flights. It is also about a reduction obligation system, about climate declarations, about flying the straightest way and about new, fuel-efficient, efficient aircraft. There is much that can be done, and more needs to be done. As regards future flights, the Transport Committee had a visit from the Norwegian Transport Committee. We were then able to note that Norway is likely to have its first electric aircraft, perhaps already this summer. We are also seeing developments internationally in this area. The only thing we know for sure is that we do not know what the vehicles of the future will look like. That is why we need to have long-term rules of play. From the Liberals' side, we also see a completely different sector that also contributes to emissions. It's about how people get to and from airports. We believe that we must be able to do more here. This is also what our reservation is about – to make sure that climate smartness is easy to get to airports. That applies to everyone, and we believe that we should invest even more in this. Regional airports are incredibly important. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with 23 inhabitants per square kilometre, and that is what you have to do if the whole country is to live. The development of the Red-Green Government is worrying. As regards Arlanda Airport, the Government appointed a Arlanda Council. We believe that there is cause for concern about what will happen to Arlanda. What about pre-clearance? Will the airline tax adversely affect it? There the government parties are responsible for the answer. As regards air traffic services, which has been mentioned in the debate here, it is very good that the committee has acted. Liberals look forward to getting more information on what this should look like in the future and be safe. Madam President, I would like I started with the following questions: Is the flight needed? Does aviation fulfil a role in the transport sector? Does aviation create mobility? Yes, the flight is needed. It plays a role in the transport sector, and it creates mobility. However, like all other sectors, aviation should also take environmental and climate responsibility, and that is quite possible.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-583	Mr President, I would like to As happy as you are when you hear liberals talk about the emitter paying, you get just as sad when they always fail when it comes to implementing it. It is recurrent in Liberal politics that they say this, but unfortunately they are not implementing it. That is truly regrettable. Speaking of this, Nina Lundström spoke nicely about creating incentives for the emitter to pay. She said that environmental charges and taxes should be used to the extent that they create incentives to be more environmentally friendly and lead to technological leaps and the like. I have a tip here. There is one way to be much more environmentally friendly, and that is to choose the train. When talking about creating environmental incentives, one often forgets that there are alternatives that are not the same means of transport. The most common flight within Sweden is between Stockholm and Gothenburg. It doesn't make sense. It is really not reasonable to take the flight between Stockholm and Gothenburg. At most, you earn 15 to 20 minutes of it, and you emit huge amounts of carbon dioxide. In addition, tax exemptions in general, as a liberal principle, can be called into question. We know that the railways are currently paying rail charges. We know that aviation is already heavily subsidised and so on. Then my question will be to Nina Lundström : What is the liberal nature of allowing aviation to be a source of tax subsidies? I never understood how it would be liberal.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-587	Mr President, I would like to I listed a number of measures that we in the Liberals consider to be quite obvious for aviation to be more environmentally and climate-smart. But what I can't understand is how Lorentz Tovatt discusses a tax that doesn't reward those who try to do the right things. It is so blunt that anyone who shits down and drives with old aircraft that consumes a lot of energy will pay as much as those who have new, smarter and lighter planes that are energy efficient. We can do a little thought exercise on this with taxes. Let's assume the electric plane test is successful. Let's assume that the researchers in Luleå have found a way to produce biofuels that Sweden could be self-sufficient in. If, then, aviation becomes environmentally and climate smart, in what way will air tax reward those who try to do the right things? Lorentz Tovatt has not answered why he and the government parties have reservations about being able to fly the smartest route from A to B within Europe. Then you can save lots of fuel, somewhere between 10 and 15 per cent, which is much more than the marginal effect it has on the Swedish area. We Liberals believe in instruments, but if you are to argue from an environmental perspective, you really should ensure that those who do the right things and take environmentally smart initiatives are rewarded – not that everyone should pay as much regardless of what measures they have taken. That's where the Green Party owes the answer. Then I understand that the Green Party thinks everyone should ride trains and wants to use instruments to achieve it, but say so! Then let's say it's about praising the flight.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-592	Mr President, I would like to I just said that. I said that it is often much more reasonable to take the train instead of the flight. That does not mean that I believe that in the future you will not fly at all. No one's saying that. It's hard to grasp this. What few know about is that if you compare globally, Sweden is one of the cheapest countries in the world when it comes to flying. The flight is VAT-free, tax-free. We have taxes on most things else – we have track charges, and in the case of cars we are taxing both fuel and vehicle. We're taxing heavy traffic. We tax most of the other things, but the flight should therefore be tax-free. It is, as I said, VAT-free and cheapest in the world. It is heavily subsidised, nationally, regionally and from municipalities and the like. Somewhere there I come back to my basic question: where is the liberal? We know we have the most effective way to fry the planet. In principle, nothing else can be done that is more effective in destroying the planet. Is this supposed to continue to be the salvation that we have on a pedestal? It is said that we should certainly not tax this. Then there are the things that Nina Lundström mentions about actually contributing to a change in aviation. We're in favour. That is positive – absolutely. Of course, we should have more measures to bring in more biofuels, for example. We're going to have technology development on the power side. But that is not what this debate is about. This debate is about the fact that it is alternative facts to believe that we will be able to fly more in the future. The research is in agreement. That is why I ask the question once again: why, if we know all this, should aviation continue to be a tax-free and heavily subsidised carrier?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-597	Mr President, I would like to The main question is: do we think it is possible to change the flight? We believe that everything indicates that what is happening right now means that aviation will take greater environmental responsibility. This is already happening today. The flight today pays take-off and landing fees. The flight today pays for all the infrastructure connected to flying. So there are already opportunities to develop a system based on it. But what Tovatt does not answer is: Why should anyone who drives old aircraft, which consumes a lot of energy, pay as much as the one who drives the most climate-smart aircraft, the new aircraft, which is extremely much more fuel-efficient? Where is the environmental impact of air tax to reward those who do the right thing? Tovatt won't answer. Mr President, I would like to There is also much about this with statistics. I would like to inform Mr Tovatt that there is a follow-up group within the Committee on Transport and Tourism that has looked at the impact of aviation and the possibilities that existed. It highlighted the possibility of developing alternative fuels and the existence of technological developments. It can be said: If you were to put all flights around the world, you would achieve perhaps 2% of all CO2 emissions, and the high altitude effects would be 4 to 5%. This investigation is called 2013/14 RFR16. I recommend Tovatt to take part of it, because there are very good statistics there. We from the Liberals believe that we are going to change the flight, and we are going to make sure that we reward it with political decisions. But if we're going to talk about environmental charges, they're really going to have that effect and nothing else. We look with great excitement at what is happening in Norway, and we look with great excitement at what research has come up with. We are absolutely convinced that technological developments will allow for great opportunities. But Tovatt's the answer. Why should the dirty person get away, and why should the one who does the right things pay more?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-601	Mr President, I would like to Aviation is an important means of transport that connects Sweden with large parts of the world and makes it easier for companies and residents to operate and live in different parts of the country. Aviation is also of great importance for competitiveness, growth and, not least, the tourism industry in our country. Mr President, I would like to It is important that aviation also moves towards more fossil-independent fuels and contributes to less emissions and negative impacts on the environment and climate. Air transport today pays through emission allowances for some of its emissions and today accounts globally for about 5% of global CO2 emissions. With new technologies and modern and less fuel-intensive aircraft and sufficient access to biofuels, emissions from aviation can be reduced. With Single European Sky, which means a straighter and shorter route within the EU, emissions from aviation will be reduced by about 10 – 12%. The Christian Democrats also stress the need to implement more effective measures against air emissions through the EU and the International Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and to actively work through the UN, ICAO and the EU to further reduce the climate impact of aviation emissions through emission allowances. Mr President, I would like to For the aviation sector, it is essential that sufficient access to biofuels is made possible. It is therefore important to continue to develop and increase the availability of renewable fuels in order to reduce the climate impact of aviation. The Christian Democrats believe that a national plan for the development of bio-based aviation fuels is needed to secure access to biofuels for aviation, so that we can make a real transition to biofuels. Mr President, I would like to At the initiative of the alliance parties, the Parliament issued an announcement to the Government in December 2017 on the need for a national aviation strategy that protects regional airports and their survival. We expect the government to deal with the announcement as a matter of urgency. Mr President, I would like to The regional airports in Sweden are of great importance for communication with Stockholm and other locations around Sweden and around the world to work. The smaller non-governmental airports are located around the country and are mainly owned by municipalities supported by county councils and regions. These airports are very important for municipalities and regions and are job creation, but they do not have enough passengers to enable a high turnover. Therefore, they find it difficult to manage on their own. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that a possible organisation could be for the state to finance and ensure the operation of all the areas that are crucial for the operation of air operations – these include fire and rescue services, customs, police, security control and snow clearance. Other operations could be carried out by a local or regional operator. Such a construction would be accepted by the European Commission, as similar arrangements already exist in several other European countries. The Christian Democrats believe that efforts are needed at state level to put the conditions for regional airports and state airports on an equal footing. And a form of financing for non-governmental regional airports needs to be reviewed in order to create long-term sustainable solutions and secure their existence. Mr President, I would like to A national airline tax, which the government proposes to introduce from next month onwards, is harmful to the Swedish economy. Almost all the consultation bodies judge this national aviation tax. In practice, such a tax becomes a penalty tax for those who are most dependent on flights. A national aviation tax puts jobs at risk, increases the cost of travel and transport, and hits regional airports hard. In addition, it will hit rural people and businesses hard. A majority in the Riksdag is against a national airline tax. The Council's comments are critical, and 90% of the consultation bodies are negative and consider a national aviation tax to be socially harmful. In spite of this, the government will introduce a flight tax. Mr President, I would like to With a national aviation tax, Sweden's total emissions are reduced by about 0.2 per cent – this is a marginal effect on the environment. This compares with road traffic, which emits about 0.2% in 48 hours. The Netherlands, Ireland, Denmark and Portugal have abolished a national aviation tax because it inhibits growth. The government has recognised this and is compensating regional airports with 120 million earmarked money, due to the introduction of a national airline tax. The climate threat, which the aviation tax is intended to remedy, is global and needs global agreements. The Christian Democrats therefore say no to a national airline tax. Mr President, I would like to Growth in Stockholm is high. The population is growing at record speed. Therefore, Stockholm needs a city-by-city airport, such as Bromma Airport, which is a hub for domestic flights and also some international flights. As an economic driver in Sweden, Stockholm needs fast transport both domestically and abroad. Furthermore, Bromma airport is of great importance for regional airports and for rural accessibility. The threat of the closure of Bromma airport, which is a national interest, persists, as the government's investigators have proposed that the flight operations should be moved to Arlanda, while Bromma airport's land should instead be used to build housing on. Arlanda Airport is now making major investments via Swedavia to meet future challenges and increase traffic. Furthermore, there is no capacity to deal with Bromma's air traffic. Bromma and Arlanda complement each other and contribute to increased accessibility, growth and job creation. Therefore, the Christian Democrats say no to the closure of Bromma airport. Mr President, I would like to It is very worrying that it has been discovered on several occasions that pilots and flight crews have been intoxicated in the ministry. Many passengers' lives are at risk as this increases the risk of aircraft accidents. In order to ensure the safety and safety of passengers, the Christian Democrats believe that a requirement should be introduced to test pilots and crew members during boarding and disembarkation on aircraft. In order to increase road safety on the road, Parliament has pushed the issue of alco-boms at ports. In a short time, alcoboms will be introduced at ports to prevent alcoholic drivers from entering our roads. The Christian Democrats believe that it is at least as important to introduce alcohol tests also for pilots and flight crews in order to increase the safety of air passengers. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation 16.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-620	Mr President, I would like to I cannot stay away – thank you for the floor! I would like to respond to a figure mentioned and also mentioned before by Nina Lundström, and this is because 5% of emissions worldwide come from air travel. You might think that sounds a little bit. Of course it is not; it is enormous, even if it may sound a bit. What you should remember is that Swedes belong to the group that flies by far the most in the world. If everyone were to fly as much as Swedes, we would therefore have real problems. Then we wouldn't even be able to talk in these terms anymore, but then there would be real danger. I want you to have that with you when you throw yourself with that particular number so that you do not confuse anyone in that context. As a political spokesperson you can go around and meet a lot of actors and companies. Most often I am very happy when different sectors and companies say that they want to contribute and switch to bio-based fuels and bio-materials in their production. It is about the chemical industries and those who manufacture buses and lorries. It's about plastic, clothes, shipping and so on. I won't repeat everything I said before. I'm always very happy when I hear this. But if I think about it, at the same time I get a little worried, because that means that we have to get biomass from somewhere. We have a lot of biomass in Sweden, but it's not infinite, and globally we really don't. Sweden is very rich in biomass if you make a global comparison. My question to Robert Halef is therefore: Given the limitations that exist, will we be able to increase air travel from Sweden? Will the whole world be able to fly as much as Swedes do?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-626	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for the question. I have mentioned a lot of proposals from the Christian Democrats on how we want to tackle aviation emissions. It is very important that there are enough biofuels for aviation as well. Today there is no such thing, and that is why it is a huge responsibility for us and for the industry to ensure that there are enough biofuels in place so that they can realign and so that aviation can assume its responsibilities in terms of emissions. They pay for their share of emissions via emission allowances, take-off and landing fees and so on. In my speech, I mentioned the figure of 0.2% in connection with the national air tax to be introduced from 1 April, in about ten days' time, and which will make travel expensive for all those who depend on flying in Sweden. Sweden is an elongated country with large distances between municipalities and regions. We are very dependent on several modes of traffic. Air travel fills a large and important part of accessibility and allows people to live and work in different parts of the country, as well as companies to remain in the country and create jobs and growth. This air tax, which is about 1.8 billion in a budget of 1 000 billion, will not help the people living in the country and the companies that depend on travel. However, since the government itself has realised that this is a harmful tax, it has set aside SEK 120 million in earmarked money for certain regional airports in order to survive your national aviation tax. We know that national airports already receive 133 million in state budget support in order to survive. Now additional costs come to them.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-630	Mr President, I would like to It sounds to Robert Halef as if the flight already bears some of its costs. Landing fees and the EU ETS were mentioned here. Let's remember a few things. I've been into it before, but the first thing to say is that we are among the ten cheapest countries in the world to fly from. We're incredibly generous. In addition to that, airports and flying are subsidised in a lot of different ways, as Robert Halef himself was in. I'm not going through it again. The EU ETS is a particularly interesting issue. That argument could have bitten to some extent if the Alliance were not to fight for eight years against tightening up the EU ETS, which means that the price has been collapsing for a long time. I do not have the exact figures, but I think that about one hundredth is the price when compared with the taxes we have on fuels for road transport. The EU ETS cannot therefore be raised as a good argument in this context. Then I am very positive and happy that the government has now succeeded in tightening up the EU emissions trading system and that it has been pushed through in the EU. The Swedish proposal is called it and hailed by the entire environmental movement as one of the best that has been done in the EU in ten years. Very well! I will come back to my basic question, because I did not receive an answer from Robert Halef. You can talk positively about biomaterials, and I often do. I talk very often about us being tech-happy and really changing. However, the problem we are facing is, for example, about biodiversity. It is completely impoverished if you are too rough in how to take out the bio-raw material. This is about the whole world increasing its air travel – that equation sort of doesn't add up no matter how you do it, and there Robert Halef is still guilty of the answer.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-636	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I can win Lorentz Tovatt in this debate. He hears and says what he wants in the speaker's chair. I agree with the facts contained in the report that we have produced in committee. I mentioned in the speaker's chair that if the Alliance Government's recommendation to introduce a Single European Sky is followed, emissions will be reduced by 10 to 12%. The government parties and the Left Party have said no to this in committee, and that is why we have an announcement to the government on this point. At the same time, you are saying yes to a national aviation tax that would reduce emissions by 0.2%. In fact, Lorentz Tovatt can ask himself the question: Is 0.2 percent better than investing in another system that would result in a reduction of 10 – 12 percent? I think it is very important to stick to what you talk about in your contributions. Now Lorentz Tovatt is dealing with global environmental issues, and that is exactly what we are saying: the environmental issue is global. That is why it should be managed globally via ICAO, the EU and the UN, via emission allowances and so on. At the same time, we will also motivate the technology to move forward so that even the vehicles become more environmentally friendly through engines, battery operation and so on. We are not against all developments on this page. But at the same time you must realise that Sweden is a successful country with good growth and good economy. Sweden is an exporting country. We are dependent on different modes of transport, and aviation is also needed. Sometimes we need to travel with shorter travel times. It is therefore important that aviation is good, that it is cheap to travel and that we take responsibility for the environment at the same time.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-642	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 9. We want to see that the development of Arlanda not only means that it will be a large and central airport but that it actually stays within the environmental framework within the set climate and environmental framework. We simply need to reduce aviation as alternatives are expanded. That is where we stand today, and it needs to happen quickly. Recent reports show that the Paris objectives will not be achieved. It's terrible. In fact, we can reach the climate targets if we work effectively to reset and at the same time work with carbon binding. In Iceland, new technologies are being developed to make the basalt of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. There will be new technologies, and one should not be technology-belief in such a way that one believes that one should continue with emissions. Rather, we need to pull the emergency brake fast – really fast! We need to look at our consumption, we need to resource-efficientise and we need to work with the circular economy to get the most out of as little resources as possible – and transport less by air. Today, many products are also transported in the aviation sector. It is an emergency brake that applies now – nothing else. It is the emergency brake if we want a civilisation, if we do not want storms and floods that destroy our infrastructure, that blow away the railways and the road network, so that we cannot at all transport food home to our own tables. That's where we are. We have to understand that! It is we who have the chance to reverse the trend – no one else. It won't be anyone else. It's the emergency brake. Then a flight tax of 60 - 80 kroner is domestic and a few hundred kroner abroad quite little. What needs to be done, however, is to extend the options to include the electorates. We have invested in night trains to Jämtland in the budget negotiations together with the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. Then you can sleep up to Östersund and then take other transports up to the whole of Norrland. When we are in Norrland talking to people who live in the far north, they say that it is the night trains to Östersund that are crucial if they are to commute. This is how they have commuted at all times when they have not had any railway in Norrland because everyone has only invested in the big cities and southern Sweden. But the night train to Jämtland has been their salvation. Those night trains we pulled in because we didn't have a ground perspective. We don't listen enough to the population, we sit here in Stockholm, in the Riksdag, building our little bubble that creates some economic growth and we think we are doing it great. But we need to listen. We need to be out in the country talking to people about what they need to change. What they needed was the night train to Jämtland, and now they have red-green saved them – thank God! That's how we're gonna keep working. We're going to expand the options while making it harder to make mistakes. We're gonna have to fly less. We release as much on a tour-and-return trip to Thailand as we let out on car trips for a whole year. There are huge amounts released for each flight. We will not be able to replace more with biofuels. Biofuel shall be divided between many modes of transport. The largest carbon sink is the forest land. They bind in much more carbon than we let out fossils every year. But if we create a lot of huts, especially on dry ground, that carbon will be released from the ground. That is why we need to be careful about biofuel management. We will not be able to have biofuels just for flights.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-653	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put the same question to Emma Wallrup, whom I have also debated with others in this House. It is about the approach to instruments. How does the Left Party view this? We Liberals think that if there are to be instruments aimed at better environmental alternatives, there must be a design that rewards those who make efforts for fewer and less emissions compared to those who actually do nothing at all. The construction of the airline tax has the consequence that those who have made efforts, bought new energy-efficient planes, even tried to involve biofuels, have paid as much as those who have not done anything at all, flown with half-empty planes or driven with an old fleet. How do Emma Wallrup and the Left Party view this? You still support the government's proposal. On the basis of the international opportunities available, why does the Left Party not act more stubbornly in order to really take action to ensure that routes from A to B at European level are planned in the smartest way? There you have reserved, just like the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It's about the planes being able to fly the most direct route. Why have you reserved? Why don't you want to do this? There you could save fuel of the equivalent of 10 to 15 per cent. It would also be an important measure – in addition to working internationally. Airplanes fly all over the world. They don't stay in Sweden, they fly all over the world. Then there must be international taxes. What is Emma Wallrup's answer?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-658	Mr President, I would like to We have supported the work of Single European Sky. We have previously supported, highlighted and recommended it in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. It is good to co-plan the most efficient routes in Europe. It really needs to be done, and we have nothing against that. We can agree across block boundaries that it is incredibly important. We are also in favour of a kind of obligation for aviation to involve biofuels. It's not wrong. Of course we should work on that question as much as possible. But it can't replace the airline tax. Then the airline tax is not high enough. This is just a symbol treasure. It is a way for us politicians to tell us that flying is not a good thing. But the money that comes in can be spent on, for example, what we got through in the night train negotiations to Norrland. We simply spend money from air travel to train travel. That way we can move forward.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-661	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I note that Emma Wallrup and the Left do not want to answer the fundamental question of instruments. It argues for an instrument to control environmental effects, but now I hear Emma Wallrup arguing that the night train to Jämtland requires funding, and so air tax is needed. It is a good thing that it is clear here what this is all about. I also note the percentages that have been involved in the debate. I note once again that the Committee on Transport and Tourism carried out a follow-up on aviation. I could read there today that aviation accounts for 2% of CO2 emissions globally, and in Sweden road transport accounts for 30% of emissions. We Liberals believe that, regardless of the transport sector, measures should be taken, but they should work locally, and there should be environmental arguments at the bottom. That is why we have presented a whole package of measures that we believe would be effective. I also note that Emma Wallrup thinks Single European Sky itself is a good thing. But the Left Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, have reserved in the report. I suppose we will also be voting on this issue. That's too bad. There are 26,000 air movements every day across the continent. What if those planes could fly the straightest way? We liberals believe in biofuels, we believe in investing in research and innovation, we believe in changing aviation and we also believe in economic instruments. But they will reward those who do the right thing and make sure that those who continue to pollute pay more. We then look forward to the innovations on which the Transport Committee has been informed, not least from Norway. There we see a very rapid technological development. Emma Wallrup! It would be good to have answers to the questions I have asked.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-668	Mr President, I would like to I thought I answered the questions, but I can answer even more carefully. We are as the only party of reserveers to reduce flights at the same rate as the alternatives are being expanded. Here you need to take a holistic approach and not set goals with Swedavia where you strive to increase aviation. We want a strong instrument and a sharp goal of reducing aviation at the same rate as the alternatives are being developed. Unfortunately, today we are the only party that wants to do so, but I hope to bring more people along on this. So we are very much in favour of instruments that give the effect we need to see very quickly. Single European Sky has been working for a very long time on the Transport Committee, and there are many wordings showing that we support it. The fact that we do not support the wording contained in the report depends on the whole of the report. However, it is an issue that we have long supported and that we have voted through and argued for in different ranks, so that is something we support jointly. It is important that we extend the carrots, preferably before we put the tools in place. The people must feel that it is easy to do the right thing. In this serious situation, it is important to roll out all the carrots and all the solutions before imposing taxes and charges. I hope that all parties are watching this.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-673	Mr President, I would like to The Swedes are fooled. They are fooled to believe that if they pay high taxes, they will gain world-class prosperity. Sweden has among the absolute highest taxes in the world. Nevertheless, we have a mediocre school. We have an elderly care where the government has increased the fees and where many older people cannot come to their own. We have care queues that have become twice as long, and we have some of the western longest periods of care. We see how the children's groups in preschool are growing. We see proposals from the government that the blind should be forced to get the ice receipts – it can bear to think about what it really means. We see how the government hits those who have the most difficult of all in society. Disabled people who receive support through LSS see their conditions deteriorate. We have comparatively low pensions. The current government has failed to create equal cancer care; there are still major differences in how people get access to care. In Sollefteå BB is closed down. On top of all these welfare deficiencies, we see the spread of crime, especially in the exclusion areas in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Here the police have largely lost control. People are being shot to death in the street, innocent people are being squeezed, uncontrolled violence enters the emergency wards and drug sales are taking place on the open street. The Swedes are fooled. Despite the world's almost highest taxes, the state cannot cope with the basic welfare and provide a basic security worthy of the name. We will later hear speakers talking about the importance of high taxes financing good welfare. But this is based on two lies. The first lie is that the high taxes we pay go to the core of welfare. It's not like that. Between one in five and one in four kronas goes to benefit systems. Sweden does not stand out in the Western world when it comes to providing good and extensive welfare. We stand out by providing comprehensive funding. Although Sweden, thanks to a global boom, has had a good development with falling unemployment in recent years and thus received more money and even though the government on top of it has raised taxes, we still have these problems in welfare. This is explained by the fact that during this period we have seen almost SEK 70 billion go directly into benefit systems. The second lie is based on a lack of understanding that high taxes hamper the economy. They hamper growth and mean that businesses and entrepreneurship do not pay off and that entrepreneurs do not have the opportunity to develop their businesses and hire people and thus create wealth. It is exciting to compare with Switzerland. About 70 years ago Sweden and Switzerland were equal. But Switzerland chose another road and today has almost half as high taxes as Sweden. Yet you get as much money as Sweden, as much money to spend on welfare. I can't bear to think about it. The high taxes also mean that people get stuck in benefit dependency, which increases the cost of benefits. This creates, not least, the exclusion problems that we see and which ultimately lead to problems of crime and other exclusion. The Moderates want Sweden to go another way. The effort on welfare must be based on the development of society, the creation of wealth and the employment of people, not on ever-increasing taxes. It is not a long-term sustainable equation, but the public sector must grow and develop in the community and together with the private sector. We realize that it is through hard work, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship that we make Sweden stronger, not through ever-increasing taxes. We also realise that taxes are essentially not State taxes. They belong to the people who pay them in, the people who, in agreement with others, have chosen to work and give their work in exchange for money and thus create prosperity. That is why it is right to have as low taxes as possible, but also because it is conducive to growth and wealth creation. It is wrong to have too high contributions because it creates unemployment, exclusion problems and high costs, but also because it is wrong to live off the work of others. Mr President, I would like to Some taxes are more harmful than other taxes. What we are discussing now are excise duties, and they are not as priority to be reduced because they are not as damaging to the economy and to growth. However, I would like to make a few points. It is good that the Alliance with this proposal forces the red-greens under the gallows to correct the problems they caused when they introduced the chemical tax. We are not, by definition, against a tax of this kind, because we think that one should pay when one pollutes. But the tax must be cost-effective and aimed at what really hurts. It shall be technologically neutral. Today, more has become a penalty tax on white goods. We also think it important to change the bonus – the malus system so that it is not overfunded and becomes an extra charge and tax for motorists. It is also important to evaluate the high alcohol taxes. It is not a priority tax group to reduce, but yet too high alcohol taxes mean that we encourage smuggling. That is why the government must address these issues. There are two new taxes which are not proposed in this report but which are nevertheless affected and which the government has promised to introduce in the long term, namely kilometre tax and air travel tax. It is taxes that will hit, above all, the countryside and our competitiveness, and which will be paid for by ordinary people. With these words, I call for reservation 5. I will conclude by saying that there will be elections in less than six months' time. We in the Moderates will be a voice because it is with entrepreneurship, hard work, rigour and entrepreneurship that Sweden is being built. This is not done by ever-increasing taxes, which will gradually undermine the functioning and wealth creation of the economy, so that in the long term we will have less well-being.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-694	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats support all the SD reservations in this report, but for time winning, I only call for reservation 12. Excise duties make a significant contribution to the Treasury. They are in the 100-billion-dollar class, and they can be used precisely as instruments to influence behaviour and consumption patterns and more in order to influence the use of goods, products or materials that may have a negative impact on public health and the environment. It is also important that the tax system, including specific excise duties, is generally perceived as legitimate precisely for the maintenance of good tax ethos and an understanding from those who pay the tax why it should be paid – what the money should be spent on and in what way it intends to influence consumer behaviour and corporate investment. When it comes to economic instruments, it is essential that they are designed to bring clear benefits. What's the benefit? What behavior do you want to influence? They must not create unsound or distorted competition, and thus unfairly hit Swedish companies or Swedish consumers. The recently introduced tax on consumer electronics is an example of a chemical tax that is difficult to justify from an environmental perspective. In particular, it acts as a penalty tax on consumer electronics without helping to reduce the incidence of dangerous chemicals. It is a good thing that the committee is taking a stand in favour of an evaluation of the chemical tax and its socio-economic effects. It would have been best, however, to abolish the current chemicals tax on consumer electronics and instead look at how a chemical tax can be designed, or what else can be done to really help reduce the incidence of dangerous chemicals. Another example of unfair competition is found in the transport industry. Cabotage means carrying out domestic transport outside the country in which the haulier is registered. It's basically a good idea. The idea is that long-distance cross-border transport can be combined with transport on the way home within the country of destination. Cabotage rules allow for a limited number of such transport operations in order not to distort competition on national markets, as there are, among other things, widely differing rules on employment conditions, wages and more. Unfortunately, cabotage has become a major problem in Sweden. Despite the existence of rules, the controls are, to say the least, inadequate. The so-called cabotage study concluded that more than 2 000 lorries never leave the country and thus compete on unfair terms with Swedish hauliers. This has been the death blow for many domestic hauliers who simply cannot compete price-wise with foreign companies with poorer working conditions and lower wages. We believe that this is unacceptable and that something needs to be done about it. Then it's not enough with just more traffic officers. In order to maintain a high level of compliance, a good control of which vehicles are present in the country is required. Such a system exists in Germany. It's an electronic tracking system of heavy traffic. It is based on the fact that all heavy-duty vehicles must have transponders in order to drive on the German road network. This system makes it easy to check how long a vehicle has been in the country, how far it has gone, how many transports it has carried out and whether it has complied with driving and rest times regulations. We therefore believe that Sweden should explore the possibility of introducing a similar system and that it should be a priority measure to overcome the unhealthy competition and the unsustainable road safety problem that this poses.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-704	Mr President, I would like to Tax rules should be effective economic instruments, but they should also promote a legitimate and fair tax system. Confidence in the tax system is crucial, not only for legitimacy but, by extension, also for the welfare state. People should be able to trust that every crown is used correctly. That is a very high target, I can say, which we probably agree on but which is not always met. With Sweden's high tax burden, it is required that each krona is used carefully and that new and increased taxes, if and when they are introduced, play an important role. In this respect, it is striking that the government is often faced with tax increases with reasons that do not hold up. I am concerned about the cleavage of Sweden that is obvious. It is a cleavage that is visible, among other things, in the labour market and in the housing market. We also have a serious regional cleavage. Excise duties may fail. A clear example of this is the mileage tax. With a new proposal, the government has disguised an old idea with partly new arguments. But it still has the same negative consequences on Swedish jobs and entrepreneurship. It has a one-sided focus on distance rather than on fuel and emissions, while at the same time having a small environmental impact. As is well known, in many places in the country an alternative transport infrastructure is missing, and jobs dependent on truck transport will be affected. In this way, the government tightens up the regional split that we can already see. It is clear that a new leadership is needed for the whole of Sweden to live. Emissions from the transport sector are the largest remaining climate challenge in Sweden. We believe it is urgent to increase the use of renewable fuels that replace fossil fuels in passenger cars, machinery and transport. In addition to the reduction obligation, clean and highly mixed biofuels are extremely important for the transformation of the transport sector. It is important that these continue to be highly competitive with fossil fuels. We believe that tax reduction is a crucial tool for strengthening the competitiveness of renewable fuels against fossil fuels. Sweden will therefore continue to push forward within the EU to ensure that it will be possible to continue tax-free renewable fuels from carbon tax. Mr President, I would like to During the time of the present government, we have seen an increase in the tax burden. Excise duties are increased and new excise duties are introduced. As a centre party, I am a strong advocate of green tax exchange, where taxes are increased on what is bad for the environment and reduced on what is good, for example on labour. This is where the government has chosen a different path during its term of office. As this is the last debate on excise duties in the parliamentary term, I would like to remind those who listen about the solar tax imposed by the government – how it could now be thought of. It is a direct counterproductive reform, because we want more people to use energy from renewable sources such as the sun. I cannot understand how the government reasoned when the solar tax was introduced. Both revenues from environmental taxes and taxes on labour have been rising or constant since the 1990s. But behind the figures are significant changes. Emissions have decreased during the period. As employment has increased and jobs have increased, income from taxes on labour has increased, despite lower tax rates. There is, of course, much more to say about this report – on important tax issues, on issues that are important for Sweden. However, I would refer the interested party to study this further. It is available on Parliament's website. I support the Centre Party's reservations in the report, but I only support our reservation 10.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-714	Mr President, I would like to In the 2018 Budget Bill presented by the Government in collaboration with the Left Party, the climate issue is among the top priority issues. The Left Party has an ambition that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, and to get there requires a more ambitious climate, energy and environmental policy. A review of energy and environmental taxes is needed to enable effective economic instruments to reduce emissions and meet the climate challenge. In our negotiations with the government, important steps have already been taken, and the legislation on environment, climate and energy in particular is being negotiated in order to turn us into a more sustainable society. Tax policy can play a crucial role in the work of a more sustainable society and a good environment, Mr President. It is through fiscal policy that we can stimulate a transition that can lead to reduced emissions from, among other things, the transport sector, in order for Sweden to reach the long-term climate goals. Mr President, I would like to This is extremely important because road traffic accounts for about half of the Swedish greenhouse gas emissions that are not covered by the EU emissions trading scheme. The design of vehicle taxation and premiums for environmentally friendly vehicles can be a significant complement to the more general fuel taxes in order to steer the development towards vehicles with lower emissions. In order to increase the proportion of environmentally friendly vehicles with lower CO2 emissions per kilometre and reduce the climate impact of road traffic, the Parliament adopted a bonus-malus system in connection with the preparation of the 2018 budget. The Left Party has been working for many years to introduce a bonus – the Malus system for light vehicles, and we are therefore very pleased that this will soon be implemented. The system will enter into force on 1 July 2018 and means that environmentally friendly vehicles with relatively low CO2 emissions will be rewarded at the time of purchase through a bonus, while vehicles with relatively high CO2 emissions will be charged with a higher vehicle tax. These are important steps to reduce emissions from the transport sector, says the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to However, this initiative only includes light vehicles – passenger cars, light trucks and light buses – and not heavy vehicles. In April 2017, the Swedish Energy Agency presented a strategic plan for the transition to a fossil-free transport sector. Several other authorities have been involved in the work, including the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Trafikverket and Trafikanalys. In the Strategic Plan, the authorities propose that a bonus – malus system also for heavy duty vehicles should be investigated as soon as possible, so that it can be in place when CO2 values are available for new heavy goods vehicles in 2019. They believe that the system should subsequently be developed gradually as data for more types of heavy-duty vehicles become available gradually. Many hauliers who choose clean technology in their new trucks today feel that there are no carrots. It is therefore important to encourage the transition so that it can take place rapidly throughout the truck fleet. The Left Party shares the view that it is of interest to investigate the conditions for the introduction of a cost-neutral bonus – malus system for new heavy goods vehicles, in accordance with our reservation. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. Mr President, I would like to While we are working on political reform to achieve environmental objectives, it is more important than ever to consider how the decisions we take in this House affect the rest of the world. Pricing environmentally friendly vehicles, such as electric cars, to achieve environmental objectives is an important step in the right direction – but only if we can ensure that these vehicles are produced in a sustainable way. The environmental problem is global, which is why it is important that when we make decisions here we think in a global perspective. We can't just think from Sweden's borders, because the decisions we make affect many other people around the world. Not long ago Aftonbladet published a report on how child workers as young as four to seven years old and poor Congolese work for foreign companies in dangerous mines, but neither helmets nor other protective equipment, to extract a mineral called cobalt. The mineral is broken into batteries for the very electric cars that both Volvo and we politicians in Parliament want people to buy. It's the same cars we reward and give bonuses for. Everyone talks about these electric cars – about Tesla and Volvo – but rarely do you hear anything about the unacceptable and inhumane working and living conditions these foreign companies expose people to. According to the organisation Afrewatch, at least 7,000 children work with cobalt in a city in Congo – in what the UN calls the worst form of child labour. We are pleased that Northvolt will build Europe's largest battery factory in Skellefteå and that from 2019 Volvo will build electric motors into all its new models, but the price paid by children and miners to extract the raw material, in a remote corner of Africa, is unacceptably high. We must take this into account when deciding on the environment in particular. Mr President, I would like to We can't save our future like that. We cannot save the environment in this way. We must make clear demands that Swedish companies comply with sustainability requirements, respect human rights and ensure reasonable working conditions wherever they operate. Congolese children are worth as much as Swedish children, which is why we should never accept child labour – no matter where in the world it happens. These are extremely important issues that must always be taken into account when we are pursuing a progressive tax and redistribution policy in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise the issue of congestion tax. The congestion tax law allows the State to levy time and location-related taxes on certain vehicles. This is done to improve accessibility and the environment, but also to help finance investments in the road network. The intense private carism in our major cities is a much greater threat to the environment than car traffic in rural areas. For example, the environmental and climate impact of transport in major cities can be addressed by congestion charges and major investments in improved public transport. The Left Party welcomed the introduction of congestion tax in Gothenburg in 2013 and sees the need for further measures to strengthen congestion charges as an instrument. Today, a municipality cannot decide for itself on the introduction of congestion tax. We believe that municipalities, county councils and regions should be allowed to decide for themselves whether they want to introduce congestion charges and how the revenues should be used. The government should be given the task of returning with proposals for new legislation that allows municipalities, county councils and regions to decide for themselves on the introduction of congestion charges and their design. This is a reservation that we have and which I support. I naturally agree with both of our reservations, but only with reservation 11.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-732	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 2. We are dealing with excise duties in this debate. I'll talk about two of these. They have to do with the environment. Liberals' environmental tax policy is very simple at its core. Some claim that it is ingenious in its simplicity. It taxes what is harmful to the environment. It is by far the most effective way of eliminating environmental pollution and eliminating what is not meant to lead to emissions. At the same time, it does not point out exactly what is to replace this, but makes it profitable with technology development and spending money on research to develop alternatives. Politics doesn't say that a particular option is best. However, we point out what should be removed. With such a tax policy, it is important to have just green tax exchanges. When you raise taxes on various environmentally hazardous things, emissions that you want removed, you should also lower them in other areas, especially on work and jobs. It's a green tax exchange. There was a time when several parties embraced this. It still does on the alliance side. But on the red-green side, it has gone from green tax shifting to red tax shifting. Both environmental taxes and taxes on labour are being increased. And, of course, the sun tax was not a brilliant idea. In the energy sector, there is a great deal of excitement in terms of technology development, not least in terms of solar cells and solar energy. Since the 1970s, the price of solar energy has fallen by 99.6 per cent. And the fall in prices continues. Over the last ten years, the price of solar energy has fallen by 80 percent. It is the cheapest source of energy in over 30 countries, especially in countries where the sun shines more often than in this country. But even here, prices are beginning to reach a good level. Furthermore, the development of batteries is improving. They are also becoming cheaper and cheaper. It is therefore more profitable to invest in them. The price has fallen by over 70% over the last ten years. In wind power, the development is also very interesting. However, the Liberals do not think that the task of politics is to identify exactly which of these options should be put forward, but our task is to tax what we think should be removed. That is precisely the principle behind our reasoning on aviation. It's not the flight we're against, it's the emissions from the aircraft. If emissions from the aircraft are the problem, the aircraft itself cannot be taxed. In this area too, there are rapid technological development and research showing exciting alternatives, such as various alternative fuels. This applies not least to electricity. Last autumn I met Eric Lindbergh, the grandson of Charles Lindbergh, who was the one who really showed the potential of aviation. His flight across the Atlantic was the start of the great commercialization of the flight. His grandchildren are now working on electric airplanes. So far, they're small. But with battery development, things are moving fast. There are also alternatives on the ground. In addition to trains, there are alternative technologies such as hyperloop. The focus here is on taxing emissions, not taxing aircraft per se or taxing cars per se in the area of cars. There the red-green side is stuck, not least the environmental movement and the Green Party. They've been very good at pointing out problems. They have often been the first to show problems. But then they're stuck in the fact that it's the car or the plane that's the problem. In fact, emissions are the problem.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-745	Mr President, I would like to I would argue that we have a welfare crisis in Sweden. There are 5 000 retirement homes missing, and that number is increasing every year. We know we have too few cops out in the streets and squares. We don't feel safe. We know that the queues in health care have doubled during the term of office. We know that care is unequal in our country. I am surprised that the government's solutions to this are always increased taxes. Increased taxes and subsidies are the solution, instead of real structural reforms, for example to consider nationalising hospital care or introducing new queue billions. The answer is always increased taxes. In this way, it has been the whole term of office. The last year is no exception. I have spoken many times in this pulpit about the eagerness of the Social Democrats to raise taxes on almost everything. I have not changed my mind on the matter, but one can of course consider whether tax can sometimes be an instrumental instrument. Of course, some excise duties can help control people's behaviour – if they control things we don't want in society, and if you reduce taxes by as much on what we want in society. The Christian Democrats have pushed the issue of introducing a so-called bonus – the Malus system. Eco-friendly vehicles with relatively low CO2 emissions provide a bonus at the time of purchase, while vehicles with high CO2 emissions receive higher taxes. I believe that it is a way of using taxes as a means of governing. The individual citizen can make an active choice, either choosing the tax-cost option or the tax-intensive option. We are now confident that this will be introduced. We believe that it will be good for the environment and that it will lead to good consequences in people's behaviour when choosing a car. It is also good that there is a follow-up system in the bonus – the Malus system, so that you can constantly calibrate it and so that it is not used to collect more taxes. Taxes should be placed on what is environmentally hazardous and make it easier for what is less dangerous to the environment. Many of the excise duties in the report concern people, and many have strong opinions. This applies not least to the airline tax, which I do not think will have the intended effect at all. People from the west coast, where I live, will take the train to Copenhagen and take the flight there to a greater extent. Then the tax has done no good at all, since the flight will still take place. The flight's going to happen anyway. Some flights must take place, and then companies or citizens may decide where to travel, not whether to travel. Regional airports, which are an important part of the development of business, will be severely affected. Regional airports exist for a reason, and if they are removed, the regions are severely affected. Of course, not all excise duties are evil. Some are in charge, which is good. But it can be seen that many of them are more of a confiscative nature than a ruling one. We need to be better at calculating the negative dynamic effects, in order to have the right basis for calculating the economic impact, but also so that it will not be a surprise when the economic impact is not as expected. What if people don't choose the way we've wanted? Then the economic impact and government revenue will not be what was thought. Sweden needs to be better at encouraging and facilitating entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs often face unnecessary barriers and high administrative costs to drive their business forward. Excise duties drive administration and the regulatory burden. We should analyse this better so that it is easy to run a business and so that the entrepreneur can do what you are best at instead of administration. With this, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 8 from the Christian Democrats.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-758	Madam President, I would like Low-tax states are characterised by poor welfare, deep economic gaps and a lack of gender equality. States with high taxes have better welfare, higher equality and more equality. Can the taxes then be so high? Of course not. A tax level of around 50%, which Sweden has had in times of crisis, is a ceiling, but that is not where we are today. On the contrary, the tax ratio in Sweden in 2018 is at a historically low level, 43.5 per cent, and still falling, as we will, among other things, remove the entire pensioner tax by 2020. It is lower than in Fälldin's year in power, lower than in Bildt's devastating tear-off years and lower than in Reinfeldt's first three years of government in 2006-2009. What, then, did these three bourgeois electoral periods stand out? Well, they ended up in horror with deficits in public finances, which we Social Democrats had to sort out. Now Kristersson is loading the shotgun with a new swarm of little accurate tax cuts. They are not accurate as they do not give growth and jobs but accurate in increasing inequality in Sweden – an inequality where we at least started a good job. Despite the world's highest taxes, Sweden is one of the world's most economically successful states – perhaps something to consider. Taxes can be used for various types of social investment, not least to educate people and to make all talents bloom regardless of whether Dad is a director or a worker. However, excise duties play a particular role in the tax system. The revenues they generate should not be despised, but unlike other tax types – income taxes, corporate taxes and VAT – they are strongly influenced by consumption and production. They are not neutral or uniform, as the general purpose of the tax system is. I believe that there is strong party political agreement on certain excise duties, not least those on alcohol and tobacco. Deep into the bourgeois ranks there is strong support for a restrictive alcohol policy and for limiting, even getting rid of, smoking and snusping. We all know that alcohol and tobacco are basically unhealthy and that excessive use sooner or later ends up in abuse. And it is we taxpayers who stand there with the costs of cancer and of all the diseases caused by alcohol abuse. On the other hand, the profits are in the tobacco and alcohol industry, not least the major global manufacturers. The Moderates have their alcohol-liberal freedom wing, which in this report has its fair share in the form of a reservation. Forgotten is already the former Finance Minister Anders Borg, who talked about the Swedish people working instead of drinking and smoking. Who knows what the Moderates think about another four years? Madam President, I would like The bourgeois reservations in this report are running in all directions. Somewhere you get the impression that the government may have landed quite well on excise matters. Basically, for example, the Centre Party on Excise Duty is also in favour of climate and the environment. The Centre Party has various such proposals in its budget motion, but the party rarely dares to talk loudly about this for fear of being accused of tax increases. The Center Party wants a chemical tax on clothing and shoes with SEK 75 per kilo and a tax on plastic bags of SEK 4. I have not heard center parties agitate for this. I am not saying that the Centre Party's excise proposal is wrong, but more shows the Centre Party's fear of the tax bench lobby. You want to be the green battery of the Right Alliance, but when it comes to action you don't dare to push your more radical demands that challenge. The Green Battery of the Right Alliance is disciplined to powerlessness by the Moderates. There has been and will be a lot of talk about how terrible the air tax is and about all the alleged horrors of vehicle taxes, fuel taxation or energy taxation. But to be honest, bourgeois parties, what do you want? Liberals do not want a Swedish airline tax but a European one. Unfortunately, this Parliament does not decide over Europe, but over Sweden, which is surely part of Europe. Why should we not dare to have a national airline tax that at least some other countries have? The large European or world-wide air tax or, better still, the taxation of aviation fuel does not show up. You just talk about it without doing anything concrete where you can. I see various confessions to bonuses – the Malus system, implemented by the government, while it should be done differently, better, contain additional elements and of course evaluated. In the Committee on Taxation, the word 'evaluation' has become the key word as soon as the bourgeois parties lack politics on a matter of fact. The word evaluation is the fig leaf that's supposed to save their faces when the tax sinker lobby asks why they don't stop the terrible government proposal. The government's 200 proposals are in stark contrast with the idealessness and emptiness of the previous bourgeois government in politics in spring 2014. We take responsibility for Sweden in a situation where Reinfeldt and Borg would already have abdicated. I have not commented on the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. SD is a repulsive party that has joined the lunatics called climate skeptics. So they are against most of the proposals that might reduce emissions and improve the environment. Just read their reservation on biofuels and compare it with those of the Center Party, which I find in essence sympathetic. The Center Party knows that the climate is in crisis and that the poles are melting. SD, on the other hand, wants to be the best friend of the fossil industry, while the Moderates do not know on which bone to stand. Madam President, I would like What those who hear, see or read about this debate, like the voters in the autumn elections, have to take a position on, is forward with the Social Democrats or backwards with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. The right has neither the will, ideas nor policies to tackle the climate crisis or other environmental problems. Against this right is the government, but also the V and the middle parties, all of whom recognise that the rule of law must be taken into account in climate and environmental issues. We may disagree about the pace and technology but not about the direction. I support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-776	Madam President, I would like Jamal El-Haj-Haj devoted a great deal of her speaking time to attacking the Moderates and made some statements that I would like to respond to with the facts. For example, he claims that the Moderates aim their tax cuts at the rich and that they are inefficient tax cuts. Wrong, we aim our tax cuts at low-income earners so that it will pay off to work rather than go on benefits. There is also a lot of solid scientific support to just increase incentives to work. Moving from contribution to work is one of the most effective ways of increasing growth and employment. Jamal El-Haj-Haj also claimed that equality is flourishing in countries with high taxes and that the opposite is true in countries with low taxes. Wrong, we can see that some of the countries in the world that are more equal than Sweden have a lower G ini coefficient. Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands have much lower taxes than Sweden. For the next speech, Jamal, it might be worth finding out some facts. Well, that's not what I wanted to focus on. What I would like to focus on in my question is that the Social Democrats promised more welfare and better welfare, but it was exactly the opposite. Despite increased taxes and a boom in the back, you have doubled the care queues. You have made sure that children's groups have grown in size. You have ensured that the fees in care for the elderly have increased. You've shut down BB in Sollefteå. You have squeezed the weakest: those who go on LSS support, that is, disabled. You promised better well-being, but you gave less well-being despite tax increases and despite the boom. I want to ask you, Jamal El-Haj-Haj: Are you satisfied with the development? Is there any sense of self-criticism? You are now going to elections on further increased taxes, a policy that has proved to be less well-being.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-782	Madam President, I would like When Fredrik Schulte stood in the speaker's chair, he said that the Swedish people were fooled. Yes, the Swedish people were deceived when the bourgeoisie ruled between 2006 and 2014. You hit the sick and the unemployed. You sent cancer patients to work. You said they'd make a living. You've really put us outside, when you went to elections, wanting to eradicate the alienation. Yes, the Swedish people were fooled. We've been trying to recreate what you failed to do for eight years. We've created 250 000 jobs. We've created housing. You were at your lowest in between 10,000 and 25,000 homes a year. We are up to 65 000 – 70 000 homes. You have indeed put us in a situation where the whole of Sweden is suffering from the financial measures that you have carried out during your eight years. You ruled for eight years and ended up with a deficit. We left power in 2006 with 60 billion in surplus. You left power to us in 2014 with a deficit of 60 billion. Today, 2018, we are going with 80 billion in surplus. We have paid back 40 billion in debt, and we allocate 40 billion to the Swedish people. The child benefit is increased by SEK 200 for mothers who may find it difficult to buy clothes for their children. What are you saying, Fredrik Schulte? I feel powerless when you put it that way. I'm asking you to read history. I'm asking you to look back, not just for the last two or three months.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-787	Madam President, I would like I asked the question of welfare. Welfare has deteriorated greatly. Care queues have doubled. On point by point, it can be observed that the promises made by the Social Democrats for better welfare became a poorer welfare despite a strong boom and increased taxes. Your promises stand for nothing, and there is no self-criticism. When I ask these questions, I don't get an answer. Instead, what I am getting is a defence number – a defence number for raising the subsidies. This shows very clearly that the Social Democrats are not a welfare party but a welfare party. Here the dividing line is very clear in Swedish politics. A voice for the Moderates and the Alliance is a voice of rigour, entrepreneurship and work. That's how we lift Swedish prosperity. That's how we can invest in welfare. Although it has been a boom, the Social Democrats have created only 250 000 jobs. In our time, despite one of the biggest global recessions, we created more jobs. We did so because we made it profitable to work, invested in entrepreneurship and encouraged entrepreneurship. It is quite clear, Madam President, that the Social Democratic policy continues to focus on raising taxes to damage our growth and our economy and taking that money to invest in the contributions of those who do not work. This is done at the expense of welfare. Care queues have doubled. They squeeze those who are by far the most vulnerable. Suggestions are made that the blind should start presenting receipts. It is a disaster for prosperity, and for that, Jamal El-Haj-Haj and the Social Democrats are unanswered.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-792	Madam President, I would like When rich people, homeowners, want a job done, they use the ROT. Then it's called deduction. When poor people need to go to social services, perhaps because they have become unemployed, you call it benefits. There is a difference between subsidies and deductions. In some formulations, it is deduction. In other words, it is a contribution. It's distressing. I was very active in the industry in 2008, when the crisis came. I was on the federal board of IF Metall and sent letters after letters to your alliance colleague Maud Olofsson : Please save us! I remember companies after companies going bankrupt. Between 2008 and 2009, Sweden lost between 100 000 – 150 000 industrial jobs. Then what did you do? Well, Reinfeldt said that the companies that don't make it can go bankrupt. That is what he said when other countries, such as Germany, helped and helped to lift these companies. There will certainly be a debate next week on business and entrepreneurship. Now we're going to distribute the money we're getting. We distribute them to pensioners. You made sure they became poor pensioners. Now we turn them into people who can make a living and have access to the economy. We distribute them, as I have said, to child benefit. We also see that welfare has improved. People go to work. Industry is looking for workers today, today. In your time, companies went bankrupt, and employees lost their jobs and became unemployed. That's the difference between our time and your time.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-797	Madam President, I would like Jamal El-Haj-Haj! You drew attention to the Center Party in your speech and indicated that we are in bad company. I could counter the fact that the Social Democrats are in bad shape, but I am abstaining from it. Instead, each can draw his own conclusions. The reality is pretty clear, I think. The Center Party is always pushing on environmental and climate issues; that is quite right. In the Alliance we achieved great success over eight years together, such as the energy settlement and the major investments in renewable energy of various kinds. Unfortunately, some of the types of energy have now had problems with the new conditions. In wind, ethanol and biogas it stands still, and there are unfortunately bankruptcies more than big profits. The Social Democrats have many voters all over the country and want to keep industries and jobs in Sweden. I respect that. That is our view, too, so that is where we agree. But if I may, I would like to highlight an incomprehensible tax such as you and the Green Party – perhaps more the Green Party; what I know – suggests: the road wear tax, the mileage tax. It does not benefit the forest industry, agriculture and businesses throughout the country. It places a new large cost on them, which does not improve competitiveness but increases the risk of jobs moving out of Sweden. My question is: Should you not withdraw the attempts to tax-burden industries and companies in Sweden in this way?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-802	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that you are taking the floor and coming to a debate, Mr Staffan. If you feel that you are in bad company, you are welcome to us. I am speaking that way about you because I am actually a little disappointed with the Center Party. I have been following the Center Party for many years in my political career and have seen how the Center Party has changed on these issues. I am therefore speaking in this way because of disappointment, and I hope that you will be correct. Again: If you feel that you are in bad company, you know where you have us. You mentioned something about the road wear tax. We have proposed a distance-based road-wear tax which will also create order in truck traffic. It is not a tax on lorries, but on the wear and pollution caused by lorries. The estimated roads are located in densely populated areas rather than in sparsely populated areas. We are taking part in a European development in which the Eurovignette system is now melting away. That is about what we have written in our report. I am aware that my IF Metall comrades up in Norrland may be a little disappointed in this, but we really need to protect the environment and ensure that those who pollute the environment pay for it. I hope you agree with us on this measure. I'd like to comment on something you said about solar cells, but I don't know if I have time. In fact, we have made the biggest investment ever for a green community.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-807	Madam President, I would like I note that Jamal El-Haj-Haj is a little disappointed in the Center Party and think we were better in the past. I think we used to be good, and I think we're even better now. So we differ a little. As far as the tax on lorries and transport is concerned, Sweden is an export-dependent country. Our well-being and our desire for the whole of Sweden to live is based on the fact that we have competitiveness in our industries and our companies all over Sweden. Increased costs are very tough with the sharp competition that prevails in the market now. I note that Jamal El-Haj-Haj says that we in Norrland are probably a little disappointed in this with mileage tax but that it is needed for the sake of the environment. But if production in Sweden decreases, the forest industries find it harder to compete when transport becomes more expensive, agriculture and other companies suffer the same thing and jobs and companies move from Sweden to other countries, where the laws are not as strict and the environment is not handled as carefully, can it not be good for the environment? That is the balance we must have, and there I am disappointed that the Social Democrats seem to have jumped into bed with the Green Party on this issue. The high environmental standards will fail. We will continue to discuss this issue, but we are on different front lines right now.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-811	Madam President, I would like We should not continue to be disappointed in each other. I think we want the best in Sweden, and we want to protect the environment. It is important that we mean well when we implement this, which we have actually already done. We want order. We have received a lot of criticism that cars coming from abroad pollute the environment – they will have to pay for it. It is important to emphasise that we want order and order in traffic. When we implement this system, it will hopefully be better. I hope, as I said, that you will continue to work on environmental issues. They are close to my heart, and I really hope that one day we will win the fight against those who pollute the environment and eventually get Sweden started and get a better environment for everyone. We must protect the environment for future generations, our children and grandchildren. At some point we will be asked: What have you done? Should we say that we were afraid of a few crowns here and there and that we have therefore allowed the environment and climate to deteriorate in this way? I don't want to give that answer. I want to be able to say to my children and grandchildren: I have done what I could. I hope you agree.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-814	Madam President, I would like Last week, the Society of Nature Protection presented a report on fossil subsidies. I had the privilege, together with three colleagues from the Riksdag, to comment on that report and the 30 billion that the Society had calculated the amount of fossil subsidies. We will go into them in greater depth when we deal with the report on tax expenditure later in the spring, but the issues are quite similar to those we are dealing with in this report on excise duties. Subsidies control behaviour, as well as excise duties. They can steer in a good or less good direction, depending on how they are designed. Then, last Thursday, everyone present – the Green Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Social Democrats – wanted to move towards phasing out fossil subsidies. There was also a strong emphasis on instruments. I am, of course, confident about this, and I assume that this will continue to be the case in the future. Madam President, I would like The former People's Partyist, now the Liberal, Mathias Sundin asked in his speech about the Green Party sees the car and the plane as a problem in itself. He said that we should have misunderstood the matter and did not see that emissions are the problem. Sundin is completely wrong. It is emissions that are the primary problem and that is the problem, especially in the case of aviation. But it is also the case that today we do not have any aircraft that do not emit carbon dioxide. It would be great if we could get electric airplanes in the future. It is excellent that it is being researched on. But today there are none that we can use, so every flight leads to emissions. As far as cars are concerned, emissions are the main problem, but there are also other disadvantages in cities. The car takes a lot of space and competes for space with other modes of transport. Of course, this does not mean that the car should not exist in the future. It should exist, even when we have changed fuel, but we need to see the problems that exist. Later we will handle the bill on congestion charges. When congestion charges came up a number of years ago, many parties were very strongly opposed to them. Now they have been accepted by the vast majority; it has turned out that we actually needed to charge a fee for the congestion that the car renders. The party that is now called the Liberals is today in favour of this, which I am pleased about. Madam President, I would like Excise duties are about internalising externalities, as they say in economics. By taxing something, the price is baked so that it becomes more accurate, so that the full cost is paid and not passed on to others. During this parliamentary term, we have introduced several new environmental taxes. We have got new systems in place that are necessary in the transition we need to make environmentally. This is important, and it has an effect. Once we have systems, we can then screw them in and improve them. The previous alliance government did not take environmental issues seriously at all as they demand. One thing that was actually done, however, was to set up a study on chemicals tax, a tax that was then introduced a year ago. The Center Party was the driving force in this. In the shadow budgets it has had this year, it has had higher revenues than both the government and other alliance parties have had in their budgets. This may be worth pointing out now that we want to design this in other ways. In fact, more money has been wanted through the chemical tax than any other party has wanted. Next week the airline tax will finally start to apply in Sweden. It's been a pretty tough trip. There has been quite a lot of opposition to aircraft starting to pay a small part of the costs involved. There has been strong opposition in quite a few party camps. The bourgeois parties threatened for a while even a motion of censure because of the air tax of SEK 80 which was announced for travel within the EU. It later became 60 kroner. Thank God they turned around. There was no government crisis. The airline tax will now be in place on 1 April, and it is not a day too soon. It has also been shown in measurements that the airline tax is more popular than some partisan strategists might have expected. The first measurement that I saw was made by the Nature Conservation Association. There, 70% of respondents were in favour of the tax. The lobby organisation Svenskt Flyg then carried out a similar survey. Possibly they asked the question in a different way. There 55 percent were positive. Maybe Svenskt Flyg didn't like it, so they didn't sign up with that survey so much. Last week I saw a survey from Novus or Sifo which also showed that there are far more positive than against the tax. It's no wonder. In Expressen we were able to read yesterday a columnist who urged the Alliance to reconsider its position on this: Lower taxes on labour was his message. I can also mention something about the airport subsidies that exist and about which the newspaper ETC has written meritoriously. In the worst cases, from Pajala airport, each individual ticket was subsidised by taxpayers with SEK 2,861. It is, of course, terrible that taxpayers should subsidise individual tickets with so much. I'll also say something short about the road wear tax. It has also been the subject of discussion. There was an investigation last spring that the government was not satisfied with and therefore did not refer. Instead they continued with a preparation work at the Ministry of Finance, where they came up with a specialization proposal, which was referred the other week. There will probably be a reason for us to come back to this. The proposal contains important changes compared to what was in the previous investigation. Among other things, the proposal includes regional differentiation and a proposal to avoid charging roads with fewer than 500 heavy goods vehicles per day. It shall be an electronic reading procedure, which shall create order and order. It is therefore just as much a measure to create a level playing field between Swedish and foreign hauliers as it is about the environment. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-832	Madam President, I would like We now have to deal with VAT movements from autumn's general exercise time. VAT is a major issue in which we should relate to the EU countries' common VAT directives, which are under change, and to Swedish legislation. The VAT issue is characterised by a wide range of legislation and applications that can sometimes be perceived as contradictory. The Parliament's tax committee has previously stated that there are good reasons to strive for a system with few exceptions, while there must be great flexibility for the Member States. It is important to take into account the political aspirations of each Member State to be able to apply low and reduced rates for, inter alia, social reasons. Having said that, changes in the field of VAT must be balanced. There's nothing to be done casually. Madam President, I would like All taxes and charges must be transparent and perceived as legitimate throughout the country. As a private individual and a taxpayer, VAT is possibly not something you think about in your everyday life, but you notice changes in different ways. We can see in various studies that, unfortunately, VAT is high on the business list of administrative problems and burdens. For the Center Party, it is important that we can extend the simplification work in the field of VAT. It is therefore important that we achieve a change aimed at maintaining and extending the possibilities for more individual entrepreneurs to report their VAT annually. Today's system must be extended to smaller companies with cross-border trade. Simplifying the daily lives of companies, more companies can start and hire, and more jobs will be created, which will of course also strengthen welfare. This shows the strength of VAT legislation. The difference in VAT levels is not always entirely logical. The VAT level at a music concert where the audience only listens to the music is 6 percent, but at dance the VAT level is 25 percent. This seems very illogical to the common man. Madam President, I would like It is clear that we need to work to ensure that the VAT system is applicable to the economy of the new era and to consumers of the new era. Today, when the purchase of goods is in full swing on mobile phones and computer screens, it seems more than clear that the formal VAT system has fallen short of technological and economic developments. Increased use of new technologies and global services pushes forward the need to simplify for both consumers and traders. We need to join the digital society. Legislation and its application must be followed in reality. Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier the legitimacy of the system and the burden on businesses. Just a few years ago, I stood here in the speaker's chair and raised the situation of non-profit associations, which suddenly had to pay 25% in VAT instead of 0. After strong criticism, including from parts of the Riksdag, and proper discussions here in the Chamber and in the Tax Committee, where Magdalena Andersson was visiting, however, the government changed the conditions so that our non-profit associations would not suffer. That's good. Now we have a new example where changes in VAT rates so change the conditions for economic activity to the extent that the government tightens the regional split. I'm thinking of the increased bio-memory that the government has pushed through. VAT on cinema visits was increased on 1 January 2017. There was then an increase from 6 to 25 percent. Now we're starting to see the consequences of that. The government's policy thus means that an increased cost for cinema visitors is created in the order of SEK 240 million, which hits smaller cinemas in rural areas hard. Of course it is totally unacceptable. This is problematic from a number of perspectives, but above all it is a measure that increases the inequalities between rural non-profit cinemas and the city's commercially prosperous cinemas. We warned when the increase was announced that it would hit the rural cinemas hard, and now we are seeing reality. A few weeks ago we could read in both local newspapers and Stockholm media that the cinema in Gagnef in Dalarna closes. It is too typical a situation for rural cinemas, the aim of which is not to make much money. The business is more or less going around. Then, of course, there will be a massive increase in biomems as a hard blow, and the business will have to close down. More examples can be mentioned. Let me take one from my own home country! It's about the cinema in Järpen. The Chairman of the Järpen Cultural Association, Håkan Nilsson, notes that the increased VAT has been added to the ticket price. 25% of visitors have been lost. He sums it up with the fact that this reform has moved the visit to the cinema to those who can afford it. It's anything but a happy development. This clearly demonstrates the need to proceed with caution with changes in VAT rates. Above all, one must have a holistic approach, with the whole country included. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that I support the reservations of both the Center Party and the Alliance. But for time winning, I only ask for the Center Party's reservation No. 3 and the alliance reservation No. 5.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-848	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte took part in the previous debate on excise duties, providing a fine framework and a starting point for where the Moderates stand ideologically on the tax issue. I am not going to repeat what Mr Fredrik said, but those who possibly follow this can gladly look at the debate on excise duties, I think. Rather, I intend to use my time of debate to highlight two of the issues that the Moderates think are absolutely most important in this report. We have five out of nine reservations in the report. The two issues I would like to highlight are, firstly, tax rates and, secondly, the need for an evaluation of the impact of the increase in VAT on cinema visits. As far as tax rates are concerned, we want taxes and VAT to have reasonable levels and to be predictable and fair. But that is not really the case in the field of culture. For example, we have a VAT rate on paper books and a higher VAT rate on e-books. We have a VAT rate if you go to a concert. But it is a higher VAT rate if you play for a dancing audience, a so-called dance band mom. We have a VAT rate for theatre visits, but we have a higher VAT rate for cinema visits. The Moderates believe that these issues need to be identified with a view to harmonising the VAT and tax rates of the cultural sector in the long term. Now I shall turn to the need for an evaluation of the effects of the government's increase in biomems. It is during this term of office that the government has increased the bio-VAT rate from 6% to 25%. So we have moved from harmonisation of cultural VAT to greater differences, and if we are to believe that media reporting in this area has had a major impact. On 5 February this year, Swedish Radio's Cultural News reported the following: A year has passed since VAT was raised for cinemas. This has led, among other things, to some 30 small cinemas having to raise their prices in order to survive and some have had to close because of the increased VAT. ..................................................... On 21 December last year we could read about Ulf Berggren. He runs Scala Bio in Båstad. He closed his theater in protest for five days. He says: It is a matter of being able to live on the business. He can barely make it look like it is now. The increase in VAT has forced him to raise fares, and fewer have gone to the cinema. I can go on. SVT News in Dalarna reports about Björn Wallgren. He's the third generation cinema owner. He says: Biomoms kill the country and benefit the big cities. SVT in Dalarna notes that the heavily criticized bioVAT has harvested its first victim in Dalarna. So it was only four days since the cinema in Gagnef was permanently closed. On 1 November, the Gothenburg-Post quoted Anna Serner. Anna Serner is the CEO of the Swedish Film Institute. She believes that every other Swedish cinema can be closed down – every other Swedish cinema. She points out that the entire film industry agrees in principle that the increase in VAT is wrong. I will conclude with a quote from Kulturnytt, Swedish Radio, on 5 February 2018. That's what you say. There are no aggregate statistics for exactly how many cinemas have chosen to raise ticket prices, but clearly representatives from SF, Folkets Bio, the National Association of Cinemas and Folkets hus and parks all agree that cinema should count as culture and therefore pay the same VAT as other cultural events. That is, 6%. ..................................................... It is for this reason that the Moderates and the Alliance want to see an evaluation of the effects of the government raising the biomems. Government policy is hitting culture hard, especially in rural areas. People's opportunities to go to cinema will be severely reduced if half of the cinemas are closed down. An evaluation is therefore needed. Finally – I see that I have a minute left – I would like to highlight the general need for regulatory simplification in the area of VAT. In particular, many small businesses find it a huge challenge to manage VAT, especially if they operate abroad. We need a review of this, and we need to make it much easier to operate, so that more jobs can be created. Of course, we of the Moderates are behind all the reservations that the Moderates have signed, but for time winning, I would only like to endorse the Moderates' reservation No. 1 and the Alliance's reservation on the biomems, i.e. reservation 5.
i-PFv7t8s59Lar8e84aWsEuQ	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2. Sweden has among the highest VAT rates in Europe. The standard level in Sweden is 25%. That was not the idea when it was introduced in 1960. It was then called general sales tax and was just over 4 per cent. The idea from the beginning was that it would only be temporary. Between 1960 and 1991 the tax increased at a relatively high rate. VAT has now been 25% for quite a long time. The increase in VAT went hand in hand with the increase in taxes on other tax bases. It may be worth mentioning and knowing, given that costs in the public sector, especially those outside the core of welfare and state security missions, have increased significantly over the years. Sweden has a rather diversified and complex VAT system partly shaped by regulations and directives at European federal and supranational level. There is a basic rate and two reduced levels of taxation in relation to the basic rate. One could say that we have four VAT rates in Sweden, where 25% is normal. Then there is 12% on food, for example, 6% on books and newspapers and 0% on banking, financial and insurance services. It is a relationship that the EU, as it puts it, has allowed Sweden. The view of Sweden's democrats is that Sweden needs to leave this supranational system within the EU and instead fully build collaborations around voluntary intergovernmental and global tax treaty networks. It is, as we see it, the only way to create equivalent rules for the management of VAT. If the EU develops its own system and the rest of the world has other systems, there are risks that these differences will be used for tax planning purposes. The conditions for using tax planning are reduced if we apply similar principles globally. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to cooperate multilaterally in a voluntary, intergovernmental form within the framework of the OECD Base Erosion Profit Shifting to gain success in the issue of VAT evasion. I would also like to reiterate a little of what I said in the previous debate on excise duties, namely that the tax system, tax rates and tax base must be logical, understandable and justified in order to have a high degree of legitimacy among those who pay the tax. It is also about the maintenance of tax standards, not least, and that tax revenues go to something sensible and which is perceived as just, especially core activities in welfare and state security responsibility. The conditions for harmonising the regulatory framework for different tourist attractions so that equivalent activities are taxed more uniformly should be examined. The differentiated VAT rate in various tourism industries can be problematic, as it leads to unnatural competitive advantages and disadvantages small-scale nature and eco-tourism, which is mainly found in rural areas. For example, 6% of VAT is paid during a visit to a zoo while 25% is paid for wild game watching in the open. A 6 percent guide in a museum, while a 25 percent walk in the city. A review of VAT rates is under way in the EU, but as it may take time, we believe it is justified to carry out a national review. As I said, there are a lot of differentiations that make the VAT system difficult to understand. It can be difficult to see why there is, for example, a reduction in certain services and normal VAT on other things in music. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that we need to seek broad cooperation and create a simplified regulatory framework, and we would like to see it in the form of a broad parliamentary inquiry.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-872	Madam President, I would like Taxes are intended to finance common welfare and public expenditure and to steer economic development in a social and ecological direction. VAT should be designed and used for similar purposes and not just as a cash cow for the current government to be able to make new reforms. We Christian Democrats have long believed that the current system of different VAT rates is cumbersome, bureaucratic and does not make it easier for the entrepreneur to do the right thing and understand the tax system. It would be a good approach if the number of exemptions from the general VAT rate were reduced and the general VAT rate could be adjusted instead. It would also facilitate the problems of drawing borders in the VAT system today, as we have heard from previous speakers. An important part of stimulating growth in, for example, tourism and the meeting industry is to simplify VAT and make the boundaries understandable. If, from the point of view of VAT, the activities could also be divided into the four categories of food, accommodation, activities and transport, which are the basis of tourism, VAT would be more understandable and easy to manage both for the entrepreneur and for the citizen. Today, there are a variety of VAT rates in the tourism industry. The meeting industry with conferences, fairs and more has great growth potential in Sweden. A good effect on national incentives for the meeting industry would come if the cost of food at conferences ended up at the same level of VAT as other services, i.e. 12%. The total cost of those buying food would be reduced, thereby increasing the purchasing power of small businesses and organisations. Similarly, a coordinated VAT system would make it easier for those who book conferences and other events, not least for buyers from other countries. This should be reviewed and simplified for businesses. There are too many exceptions to the general VAT rate, and that makes it difficult for the entrepreneur to do the right thing. The Swedish market is too small for many companies. International trade is not exclusive to large companies, but also to small and medium-sized companies that want to expand. The issue of VAT across Europe and of doing the right thing as a small or medium-sized enterprise is not an easy one. I have here examples of material currently to be submitted to the Spanish tax authorities in order to be registered. I could read out all these documents, which are in English, but I won't. There are 17 different documents that you should fill in, while answering 32 questions about your company, yourself and why you do it this way. You must also submit identification of yourself as a person, your company, your company account and your company's legitimacy in the form of documents from specially selected lawyers in your own municipality, which must also be certified by another lawyer in another municipality. You should also do it from your bank as well as from the Swedish Companies Registration Office. Many of these documents should have an apostille stamp. Those in the hall who know what an apostille stamp is and have seen one can raise their hand. I do not think so many people have seen such a thing. I think this is far too complicated for an ordinary simple entrepreneur from a European country. It should be easy to do the right thing, but it's not easy. Please also note that if you submit it to the Spanish tax authority, it should be in Spanish and include the involvement of a number of different lawyers, authorities and banks to obtain everything. Isn't that what I'm working on now? There is, of course, an easy track to get help with this. That's what I told you. If you're going to do everything yourself and not take the help of someone, it's far more difficult. As you can see, I am looking to show that this is an enormous administrative task for a small entrepreneur. It is not reasonable that, as an individual SME, you should find out everything and solve all these documents in order to be able to do the right thing. That's why I'm very happy that the MOSS system exists. It should be extended to all entrepreneurs in any sector so that VAT can be accounted for in one place, rather than in this way. With my small example, I wanted to show that we are far from making it easier for companies to submit data and the like. We find our tax authority difficult to deal with – but ask the entrepreneur who works all over Europe which tax authority is easiest! I still think they think that the Swedish tax authority is easier to work with. We must make a journey here and help companies be able to be international in a simple and clear way. I think we all want to speed up that journey, and I think that all parties can help each other in it. Being an entrepreneur must mean doing what you are best at and not spending time, effort and commitment on administration, which does not give revenue to the company. I agree with the Alliance's reservation 5 on the issue of bio-VAT, and I think that my alliance colleagues have presented the Alliance's position in this exemplary way. I'm not going to say any more about it.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-890	Madam President, I would like In order to maintain the legitimacy of VAT, it is important that the tax rules are predictable and easy to apply and do not lead to excessive administrative costs for those who apply the rules. Since the entry into force of the VAT Act, a new, modernised VAT Directive has been adopted in the EU. The Swedish rules have also changed several times. New rules have been introduced, and this, of course, has increased the complexity of the legislation and made it more difficult to apply. The VAT legal framework should therefore be simplified. Clear and simple rules make business easier and help to strengthen the competitiveness of companies. However, as the tax policy guidelines show, the benefits of simplification must always be weighed against the need to safeguard tax revenues, to ensure fairness between taxpayers and to counter tax evasion and evasion. Already in the 2016 budget bill, the Government assessed that the VAT Act should be reviewed to make the law more transparent and adapt the rules and concepts of the law to the VAT Directive. Therefore, in autumn 2016, the Government appointed an investigation to make this review of the VAT system. That work will end on 1 April 2019, if everything goes as it should. To this end, the European Commission is also working to develop the common VAT rules within the EU, including the objective of creating a single VAT area in the EU. It shall aim at combating fraud, supporting business and promoting the digital economy and e-commerce. On 4 October last year, the Commission presented a proposal for the first step in the transition to the definitive VAT system. It is about cross-border business-to-business trade. The overall principle of the new system is that cross-border business-to-business trade should be taxed in the same way as domestic business-to-business trade. This means, among other things, that the need for harmonised tax rates within the EU is reduced because it is the country where the goods are sold that determines the level of VAT. Thus, companies no longer benefit from being established in countries with low VAT rates in the same way as under the current system. On the other hand, of course, there may be other problems, including a more difficult existence for companies selling goods in many countries with different tax rates. They must, of course, be weighed against each other. As a general rule, we Social Democrats believe that VAT should be of a uniform nature with as few exceptions as possible. There are many reasons for this, perhaps above all a distortion of competition created by different tax rates, such as the problem of bordering between different categories of goods with different VAT – it could be, for example, the cultural sector or swimming education, and the cultural sector has heard a lot about today – although in one sector it may be similar activities. It has also been noted in many of the motions we are discussing today. A study on uniform VAT was set up after an announcement by Parliament in 2002. The study submitted an interim report proposing uniform VAT and a final report in 2006 proposing changes to the current system of three rates of VAT. However, the investigation has never been referred to, and instead it was sent in the trash by the previous government. However, it is available to those who have now practised on uniform VAT. As regards e-books, online newspapers and their printed counterparts, work is under way in the EU, supported by the committee and the government. In the treated sports, reduced or abolished VAT is proposed more often for several new categories of goods and services than for uniform VAT. The discussion on this is not at all new, but we recognise it from countless debates. But our position remains that such changes must be implemented carefully and thoughtfully, and we do not want to precede the more comprehensive work that is going on in Sweden and in Europe. That is why I am calling for all motions to be rejected.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-899	Madam President, I would like I'd like to ask you a question about the bio-VAT. I mentioned in my speech that Anna Serner, CEO of the Swedish Film Institute, spoke in an article in the GP. She warned that every other Swedish cinema could be closed down – this in the light of the government's increase in VAT from 6 to 25 per cent. She pointed out that the entire film industry agreed in principle that the increase in VAT was wrong. We Moderates think it would be good to evaluate the issue now. It's been a year, and it's reasonably short. But if we get so many serious reactions via the media, it feels important to react and think. At the same time, we cannot be guided by media data alone. Therefore, we think it would be good to have a proper investigation now. Why can't Patrik Lundqvist, the Minister for Culture and the whole government support such an evaluation, so that we at least deal with the issue further? There are many cinema owners who are worried.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-902	Madam President, I would like The increase in VAT in cinemas was part of an entire package aimed at getting a change in the film industry in Sweden. The film agreement was abolished and the 10% cinema fee was abolished at the same time. These are not just negative elements, and they are not an individual increase in VAT. The government has the task of evaluating and reviewing all these responsibilities, as well as this. I am convinced that this will be done if it is found necessary. But we can also say that the visitor numbers in cinemas do not correlate as surely with the prices as it sounds at Jörgen Warborn. Between 1994 and 2014, bioprices increased by 57 per cent, compared with the Consumer Price Index, which increased by 26 per cent over the same period. No such dips were seen visiting because of that increase. The number of visitors went up and down from year to year and fluctuated quite sharply. With this background, I cannot see that a price increase of 5 – 6 SEK per ticket can be evaluated within a year and get the results that Jörgen Warborn is looking for. I am convinced that if it is possible to obtain such a basis, the government will address this issue.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-906	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that Patrik Lundqvist says, namely that it was a holistic move around film policy. Perhaps the problem is that the state would take greater responsibility for film policy rather than letting the industry have that responsibility. It was basically a wrong way to go. The industry is critical right now. When Anna Serner speaks as she does – she is the CEO of the Swedish Film Institute – the government parties should be a little nervous. It is not certain that the fares are correlated. It's possible they don't. On the one hand, there are a lot of cinema owners who say things. We've seen closures. On the other hand, there is Patrik Lundqvist's indication of correlated fares. I think it would be good, because there are a little bit of double tasks, that there is an investigation to find out what it really is, so that we do not just go on feeling or media data. Here I think the government parties are tone-done. When we see that cinema owners are clapping up businesses – and I think none of us basically want to – it is now time to react and act. Such an investigation takes a while before there is a good basis for decision-making. I understand that the government parties have painted themselves in a corner and want to defend themselves to the letter in different ways, but the serious thing is if it goes out over the culture of the countryside in particular.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-911	Madam President, I would like Paint yourself in a corner, you can always say. I note that far-reaching conclusions are drawn on the effects of what has been done. Of course, I welcome the fact that we are looking at these issues over time, but I certainly do not think that as small changes as it is actually about, a few crowns per visit to the cinema, 5 – 6 crowns, the average is 1.7 visits per year, is so much money in the personal budget. I do not think that is reducing the number of visits to any significant extent, so I think it is premature to draw that conclusion. But of course we in the government parties want the whole of Sweden to live, and in that the cinemas are part of it. Therefore, there is every reason to review cinema death and how to handle it. However, I do not believe that the VAT rate on cinema visits is the reason for cinema death, nor do I believe that the VAT rate will be the solution that saves cinemas.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-915	Madam President, I would like We are therefore discussing the Sku11 report on VAT – consumption tax which has its merits but also leads to some main concerns for businesses and others because it can be complicated. Let me begin by saying something that fell away from the previous dossier. Several people then spoke of the solar electricity tax as if it exists, but it was actually abolished on 1 July last year. To speak of it as if it were, therefore, is not fair. I wanted this to be said so that it will be correct and so that everyone knows it. Back to VAT. Sweden has a rather small tax error when it comes to VAT payments compared to the vast majority of EU countries, which is good. In the EU, the VAT gap was a total of EUR 170 billion in 2013, which is an astronomical sum. It is therefore no wonder that the EU is actively working to change this and to tackle fraud and error in the field of VAT. There may be a value in having uniform VAT. It's simple and predictable, and there's no confusion. One example that is often mentioned is music with dance and without dance. At the same time, there is a value in having differentiated VAT rates in order to support certain activities that we want to benefit and have more of. A couple of years ago, the Supreme Administrative Court made a change that meant that second-hand shops were taxed. There were many of us who opposed it, and we managed to stop it. During this term of office, we have also received reduced VAT on easier repair services on clothing, shoes, bicycles and the like. That is a good thing, and it is also something that has been highlighted in several countries. Just a couple of weeks ago I was in Norway talking about the Swedish experiences about this at the conference Broen til fremtid. If the EU continues to move towards a more flexible use of VAT than at present, it could be a way of moving more towards greater recycling and better use of resources. Madam President, I would like Two opposition parties have proposed in their budget options to increase VAT. The Christian Democrats propose an increase of as much as 18 billion by increasing each step by 1 percentage point. The Moderates advocate an increase in VAT from 12 to 13 percent, which corresponds to SEK 3 billion. In its letter on tax expenditure, the Ministry of Finance wrote about the distributional effects of increased VAT on food, i.e. on the intermediate stage. It turns out that low-income earners spend a larger share of their income on food, but high-income earners add more nominally. As far as the increased cinema VAT is concerned, I have every respect for the sad fact that cinemas are closed. But if we compare this SEK 200 million with the Christian Democrats' SEK 18 billion, the latter is 90 times as much. The Moderates' proposal of 3 billion corresponds to 15 times more. I'm addressing this so we can see the proportions. None of these parties themselves wanted to account for the tax increases they have proposed in their budgets; instead, they wanted to point out what the government is doing and the taxes they wanted to reduce. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-927	Madam President, I would like Rasmus Ling mentioned the food VAT, and it is true that there is such a proposal. Let me point out that when the Tax Committee organised a seminar on a possible future tax reform on 1 February, it was the Socialist State Secretary, Leif Jakobsson, who highlighted the reduced food VAT as an area where politicians should think about it. He showed a Powerpoint, and it said: Time to reconsider certain taxes and tax expenditures, such as food VAT? Just as you did, Rasmus Ling, he referred to the letter that the government made on tax expenditure in 2017. It also analysed the distributional effects of such a proposal. In this letter, the government in turn refers to the OECD, which conducted a study in 15 Member States in 2014. They say about reduced food VAT, as we have today, that the measure is a tangiblely unfulfilled way of supporting poorer households and that, in terms of the amount of aid, richer households receive at least as much of it, if not significantly more. I believe that Rasmus Ling will bring up the food VAT with his own government partner, the Secretary of State of the Social Democrats, rather than with me and the Moderates. It seems more like you guys don't agree with each other than we do. As we also reduce income tax, the effect of our food proposal is not so great for the voters.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-932	Madam President, I would like There is no division at all between the government parties on this issue. I have in no way ruled out that changes could be made marginally in this, but that depends on the overall picture. With the combination of measures that the Moderates have in their budget, the people with the lowest incomes, such as those outside the labour market and the sick, will get higher food prices – everyone must eat – as well as less money. If, on the other hand, it were to be combined with measures that improve for low-income earners, neither I nor anyone else would rule out marginal changes. What I wanted to point out was that the Moderates always avoid talking about the tax increases that they actually propose, and this is about 15 times more than the bioVAT that Jörgen Warborn devoted much of his speech to. Therefore, it was good that he came down on the track to tell us that this is a proposal that the Moderates want to go to elections on.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-936	Madam President, I would like This is a motion for a resolution and the proposal for an increase in VAT is not included in this report. This is about exercise. The proposal for an increase in VAT is included in the usual budget preparation. I chose to focus on what the report says. I have one more question, and it concerns the ban on the deduction of permanent residence. This is an issue that has been raised in connection with the large reception of refugees. This means that private companies can convert premises into housing. If you do this, you can as an entrepreneur and property owner suffer from a rather outdated legislation that leads to higher rents and great uncertainty. As a property owner, you can be liable for VAT ten years back by making such a conversion. The Moderates want to review this legislation and possibly modernise it. The Green Party does not want to carry out this review, but the report states that it assumes that the government is reviewing the possibilities of simplifying the situation for individuals and companies wishing to rent premises as refugee housing. I would like to ask Rasmus Ling: When does he think the government is going to do this review? Will it happen in the next month? Will this happen before the end of the term of office? Or will it take a year? This is a rather relevant issue because this particular wording is exactly the same as that of Rasmus Ling and the government parties exactly a year ago. The Moderates have a reservation in this area and are pushing in it, but you are very passive. We still accept many refugees. This is therefore a very topical issue.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-940	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying now to hear a moderate commitment to Sweden receiving refugees and to be able to find housing for refugees coming. Unfortunately, we see among the Moderates around the country that they are doing everything possible to prevent people coming to moderate-controlled municipalities. And they want the refugees who have been given housing to move to other cities when the time of establishment has expired. We've seen it around the country. The government has been active to enable them to stay and is now taking steps to ensure that this happens. One reason why nothing has been done on this issue may be that we have had an ongoing situation for a long time with moderate municipalities around the country who have not taken responsibility for the situation and who have not wanted to take the rightful responsibility that we have to take to cope with this situation now and to be able to cope with it in the future. This is an issue that I am also prepared to review. I think we need to turn over a great many stones in this regard in order to be able to do so. It's good that Jörgen Warborn is involved. I hope you can talk to several of your party colleagues, because everyone in your party is not on the track on this issue.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-944	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, the Left Party held its Party Congress. Then we voted in favour of an election platform. In this election platform we really tried to formulate a vision of the Sweden that we want. It is a Sweden that is equal. We have seen how inequality has increased in Sweden for many years. Therefore, it is important to know that if you vote for the Left Party, you vote for an equal Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country where we have the opportunity to create a good life for all of us who live here. My speech here is very much based on what is in our election platform that I was talking about, it has a lot to do with precisely redistribution policy. We cannot create an equal Sweden unless we have an equal redistribution policy based precisely on fiscal policy. That is what we are discussing here today. We have the opportunity to create a good life for all of us who live in this country. The accumulated wealth is greater today than ever. Nevertheless, many do not share in the success. Mr President, I would like to We see the economic divides increasing, and a small economic elite pulls away from the rest of us. We see how the richest get richer while poverty increases. Today, the possibilities of life are determined by the size of your wallet and by the sex and color of your skin. That's the decision. We see how the welfare is dismantled and how the most vulnerable are attacked. It is pensioners who do not get the pension enough, even though they have worked their whole lives and contributed to the construction of society. It is the vast majority of women who often have lower incomes and lower working conditions than men. It is all those who cannot get a firm and secure job and must be content with temporary, precarious jobs and working conditions that are constantly deteriorating and undermined. Hundreds of thousands of people find it difficult to find accommodation that suits their lives and their finances. It is they who borrow more than they can afford to have a place to live. It is all those whose daily lives would not work without LSS assistance as personal assistance and who are currently losing their assistance, or who are in danger of doing so. How is this possible when at the same time we are richer than ever in Sweden? The simple answer, which is quite complicated at the same time, is that we do not have an equal redistribution policy. The Left Party strives for and works every day to create just that. We see how consumption among the richest reach new heights. It is 1% of the population that is very rich and that is getting richer. With this wealth comes increased consumption. Many politicians talk a lot about equality, also in this House. But it does not help to talk about it all the time, but to have proposals that actually change and that create equality. That is why we need to shape our tax policy in order to close the gap. We will design it as an instrument for creating a socio-economic, cultural and environmentally sustainable society. Tax policy therefore has a distributional effect. Mr President, I would like to VAT is a general tax on the consumption of goods and services. The tax is levied at each stage of the production and distribution chain. The trader who trades goods or services is normally liable to pay taxes. The aim is to move the tax forward in the chain to ultimately burden the consumer. It is therefore the consumer who ultimately pays for it. It's husband's sense. If the consumer is often the one who has actually accumulated wealth, then it is important that it is the consumer who contributes more. That is what the Left Party's policy is based on, i.e. that it contributes according to ability. Those people who are the richest and who consume the most are allowed to contribute according to their ability. Mr President, I would like to Often it is heard in this debate, especially from the bourgeois side, that wealth is created by companies. Entrepreneurship is incredibly important to the economy. But it is people who work who create wealth in a country. We must be very clear about that. It is therefore important for us to understand that it is workers who are the prerequisites for entrepreneurship to function. It is those who work who ensure that entrepreneurship creates the very wealth that we are looking for. Mr President, I would like to VAT is an important source of income – it is estimated to have accounted for 41 per cent of central government tax revenues in 2016. It is extremely important for funding welfare, while helping to create an equal redistribution policy. The Left, on the other hand, feels it is a pity that the EU is interfering and constantly trying to influence the design of VAT in Sweden. It is no surprise that the Left Party is against the transfer of the power of the Swedish people, and in particular the economic power, to the EU. We are against that; it is no surprise. The Swedish economy and tax policy should be designed by the elected, elected politicians in this House in the Swedish Parliament, no one else. We are very clear about that. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Left Party shares the Government's ambitions regarding clarity, simplicity and predictability of the rules applied to tax collection. This applies, in particular, to those taxes which affect a large number of taxable persons or tax deductions which are particularly important for various reasons. It is important to work to ensure that the regulatory framework is as easy as possible to understand, in order to avoid unnecessary administrative costs. That is why we think it is good that the government has set up a study to review VAT legislation in order to improve it with a clearer structure, transparency and linguistic modernisation. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party supports the report and the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-Uiq5LybumKdxS2CwdYm4nx	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. In connection with the general elections in 2006, a referendum was held in Stockholm on the introduction of congestion tax. The Swedish Democrats, who were then such a small party that many might not care what we thought, took a stand against this. Our main justification was that what we voted on was probably not what we would get in the longer term. We realised that the tax would be increased and increased. This has happened in the past – we have stood here before and debated just this – and now it will happen again. So what we are debating is a proposal to increase the tax. The Government proposes, among other things, to introduce an additional fiscal period in the morning, at 2.30 p.m. 06.00 – 06.29, and to increase the amount of tax for certain periods of time. The Government also proposes that the congestion tax should be differentiated during the high and low season and that increased amounts of tax should be introduced during the high season. It is also proposed that taxes should be levied during the first five working days, except Saturdays, July and on days prior to certain holidays. We believe that the government is proposing a very substantial increase in congestion tax for those who need the car to get to and from their jobs, for companies that depend on car transport for their activities and for others who need to use cars for various reasons to transport to and from Stockholm. Even transit traffic that is forced to cross Essingeleden suffers unfair charges. The government's proposal is based on a relatively vague basis, and it will not solve the problem of road congestion. We therefore believe that the proposal should be rejected. If congestion were reduced, it would simply be because there has been a decrease in activity in the region and thus reduced growth. We do not believe that this will happen, but rather that there will be considerably higher charges for all those who actually depend on the car. We therefore believe that the proposed changes should be preceded by a proper evaluation of the outcome of the existing congestion tax and the expected side-effects of the changes, as well as an analysis of the measures leading to the next objectives and should be financed primarily by the expected increase in revenue. The Swedish Parliament should announce to the government its view that the effects of the congestion tax in the City of Stockholm should be investigated. We believe that the purpose of the tax should be clarified and fully focused on reducing congestion. Congestion tax should also be used to facilitate car passengers to switch between car and public transport. The funds should therefore initially be used for two main purposes. One is to create safe travel centres with guarded parking directly adjacent to strategic locations at the entrances of Stockholm, and the other is to speed up the construction of Bypass Stockholm. This would solve many of the problems arising from the fact that today's transit traffic is forced north on the Essingeleden. The Swedish Parliament should therefore announce to the government that the possibility of allocating resources from the congestion tax to the construction of strategic travel centres to facilitate the switch between car and public transport should be investigated. Resources should also be allocated from the congestion tax to speed up the construction of the Stockholm bypass. That is something that should definitely have been done, and it is even more urgent today.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-966	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 3. It's about how to use the revenue from the congestion tax. Today, they can be used to expand public transport, and they can be used for road projects – but to be honest, most of them go into the public purse. We would like the money to be used for bicycle projects as well. It makes sense when you think about it: If you can expand the bike paths, which can lead to some who otherwise take the car taking the bike in, it naturally reduces congestion and driving. So we want to see that difference in the congestion tax. Otherwise, we support the proposal.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-969	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by calling for the reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved. There seems to be a very broad consensus that congestion taxes should remain and that they should finance the expansion of public transport in the Stockholm region. This applies both here in the Chamber and in the Stockholm Region – several municipalities support this and share the view that tax revenues need to be increased in order to finance further expansion of public transport. This applies, for example, to the metro extension between Älvsjö and Fridhemsplan, Roslagsbanan to the city, Tramway Syd and metro station Hagalund. The agreement also includes that the municipalities concerned undertake to develop other parts of society in order to enable continued growth in the region. The pressure remains high when it comes to moving in. However, I will not prolong the debate, but I note that there is broad support in this House – although there may be some different ideas about what you want to do with the money.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-972	Mr President, I would like to The question of congestion charges in Stockholm was very big in the first election movement in which I participated actively, namely the election movement 2002. It was also large in the election campaign after that, i.e. 2006. The issue was then discussed in a completely different way from today – to say the least. At that time, there were considerably fewer cities around Europe and the world with congestion charges. London had recently introduced it, but there were not nearly as many as there have actually been now. Most parties were against this, especially on the bourgeois edge, but most have now re-evaluated the issue. Today we have a common understanding, except that the Swedish Democrats stick to their opposition. The congestion charges have been a success. The Stockholms had a trial period and a referendum in 2006. That is when they voted in favour. There have not been referendums on an individual tax on very many occasions, if any. Perhaps it has been at some other time, but not as I know. Here it was. And people liked the congestion tax and voted for it. Unfortunately, the money has not been wagered on what they would be wagered on, according to the ballot. It said they were going to expand public transport. Instead, some have wanted to prioritise expensive motorways in the region; Bypass Stockholm costs a lot of money. Instead, it would have been much better to invest in the expansion of public transport. When we vote on this tomorrow, we will most likely vote in favour of increased times, higher charges and a few more days in which this will apply. There doesn't seem to be much drama about it. We now have a broad consensus. It's basically good. However, I think it is important to remind you that this has not always been the case. It was different from 10 to 15 years ago. One of the most persistent opponents of the congestion tax was Liberal Party leader Jan Björklund. He devoted a not insignificant part of the election campaign in 2002 to fighting with all that he was able to fight for the congestion tax to come into place. I note that the Liberals have changed not only their name but also their opinion on this. That, of course, is good. More parties have also moved in that direction. If you want to hear more about the background to the congestion tax, you can listen to the Swedish Radio's programme series Decisions that have shaped Sweden. One section is about the congestion tax. It is well worth listening to – very interesting and instructive. Mr President, I would like to This says something else. This is often the case with environmental taxes in general. Someone's coming up with an idea. At first, it is mocked. Then there will be lobbies with bitter outcomes about terrible consequences, for both businesses and consumers, if it should come into place. But if it is introduced, it often turns out to be a very good solution and that it helps to solve the problem. A previous example is that many houses around the country were heated with villa oil in the early 90s. There was a tax on it, and it could disappear quite quickly. There was a lot of warning about this. But we can see that the transition was quite calm. And I don't think anyone wants to go back to what was meant for heating oil 20 - 25 years ago. Parallels can also be drawn to contemporary discussions. The airline tax will be introduced on 1 April, at the end of next week. It has also been mocked. Everyone, from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce to Svenskt Flyg – the lobby organisation that includes Swedavia – has warned of unreasonable consequences. But we will be able to see that this governance is also reasonable. If we get it in place, we can also gradually make it better. The road traffic tax should go this way too. We have seen in the past that it is an effective way of controlling. It is indeed a market economy way of controlling, because we are at the expense of the actual price, which is not present until a price has been set for the discharge. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and this proposal.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-985	Mr President, I would like to I mostly requested a line to correct Rasmus Ling on one point. We do not maintain any resistance to congestion tax as a phenomenon. We chose to accept and respect the result of the referendum. We are in favour of that kind of direct democracy. So it's no problem. However, we have had comments that, as Rasmus Ling said, the money may not have been used for what was intended or what was said from the beginning. Of course, me and Rasmus Ling have different opinions about what they should be used for. But, as I said, it was not as promised, either in terms of levels or where to levy the tax. It has also been raised time and again. We have heard others argue that revenue must increase. Is there an upper limit? Or does Rasmus Ling think that you can continue to increase the tax on this in order to raise more money for things that you think are important? Is there no reason to stick to what has been said before, both in terms of taxation itself and what the money is to be used for? What is the goal if you are not to have a pass-by? Is the objective merely to reduce activity and thus reduce growth in the region?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-988	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Swedish Democrats have turned the question of congestion tax in principle. I didn't know. But that's good, of course. However, I am a little confused that the Swedish Democrats have an approach that means that if something is decided on one occasion, for example through a vote, it should not be able to change as the world changes. Conditions are changing all the time. A lot has happened since 2006. It has been many years, and Stockholm has grown a lot. It would be strange if we could not change such a system as things change—not least we have inflation. For me, it's perfectly natural to change. There's something we're gonna do. The aim is to maintain the governing effect that we decided we would have. It would be really weird to have the same tax on cigarettes we had in the '70s. Things are getting more expensive. We do not want people to smoke, and that is why we have gradually increased the tax. We want to maintain a controlling effect on the congestion charging system as well. That is why we are now making small corrections. There may, of course, be an upper limit. We have wanted an effective system. In order for the traffic system not to cork again, you have to pay to go to jail. There are also other charges, for example for parking spaces. We also need revenue to finance, preferably public transport. Unfortunately, other priorities have been set. I'm throwing over a counter-question. Is SD not prepared to make any changes in this? Do you want the system to be the way it was in 2006?
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-996	Mr President, I would like to There's a point in holding what you've gone to elections on. Confidence in politicians decreases the more you change and deviate from what you said from the beginning. In the Västra Götaland region, for example, there is a fairly large public dissatisfaction with congestion tax. The attitude has been skeptical from the beginning. If there are examples from Stockholm that it has not been as promised, there is reason to suspect that it may not be in Västra Götaland either. I assume that Rasmus Ling's party is for congestion tax even in Västra Götaland. There, as I said, popular discontent has become apparent.
i-446f11bf1bc41cd1-999	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the world is changing, and with it you have to make changes. For a congestion tax to retain its governing effect, you need to change it over time. There's nothing strange. That is something we have said before the elections and been very transparent with, so I do not understand at all how we would have been unclear to the voters. On the contrary, we have been very clear about this. In the case of Västra Götaland and Gothenburg it has been a little different. A number of mistakes have been made there. It is not the Green Party that stands for any of these, and I do not have time to account for what is happening there in the time that I have now. You can also listen to the programme in Swedish Radio that I referred to earlier. I think there are things to learn there about how to manage this type of process in a better way, and that applies to quite a lot of parties. I think, Mr President, that in the long term there will also be an improved system in Gothenburg, which will gradually gain acceptance and, over time, perhaps also be liked in Gothenburg as the car city it is anyway.
