i-U4to1E7RffbJh7SftdHGxB	Mr President, I would like to Last Sunday, the European Council met to take a position on the outcome of the negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. First, we met without Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May to take a position on the proposed agreement. Then the Prime Minister of Britain joined us so that together we could go through what lies ahead. The meeting was well prepared. The texts were negotiated. With the final outstanding question on Gibraltar resolved before the meeting, the European Council could quickly endorse the withdrawal agreement and approve the joint political declaration on the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has no reason to rejoice in Britain's withdrawal from the EU. On the other hand, it is a good thing that we have taken a step towards an orderly exit, and so we can lay the foundations for building a good relationship with the UK in the future. The Brexit negotiations have not been easy for any side. However, the agreement that has now been reached is in the circumstances the best possible for both parties. As honourable Members well know, it is not least a question of providing citizens with secure conditions for the future and of regulating the economic agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom. In particular, it concerns the difficult issue of the Irish border. The agreement also provides for a much-needed transitional period which will allow all those involved to prepare well. The forward-looking declaration on the future is a good complement to the agreement. On this basis, the EU and the United Kingdom are well placed, through this declaration, to proceed in subsequent negotiations on future cooperation. Mr President, I would like to We are all aware of the uncertainty that still remains as to whether the British Parliament will accept the agreement. We have no reason to speculate on that outcome. However, as I have mentioned before, there is ongoing in the Government Office for contingency planning for all possible outcomes. We must and must be prepared for the serious consequences that would result from a disorderly withdrawal, although we naturally hope that we do not end up in such a situation. Mr President, I would like to During this negotiation period, the Riksdag and the Government have been united behind the Swedish position. On Friday, the European Council unanimously supported the position that I presented at the time for Sunday's meeting. That unity is a strength. It will also be needed in the negotiations on the new relationship between the EU and the UK. It is in that process that the real conditions will be determined. There we will ensure the best possible trade relationship and continued cooperation, which are prerequisites for securing our common external and internal security. It is good that we agree with the UK that we are aiming for deeper and broader cooperation than the EU has with any other third country. A good relationship with Britain is an important part of building the strong and dynamic European Union that we need in the future. Mr President, I would like to That was the report back from the European Council.
i-Pr46bosHr9hkGyVgUFF5F7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is in many ways an interesting agreement and an interesting declaration, while everyone's eyes are actually directed at London and the British House of Commons. Most points now to the fact that the agreement that has just been negotiated for a few years will not be accepted by a majority of Members. It is a motley alliance that for various reasons will lower this agreement for Theresa May. The big question, of course, is: What happens then? There are a few different possibilities for what can happen. I personally think that the worst outcome would be a chaotic situation in which Britain leaves without agreement. It is, of course, bad for the UK, but it would also be bad for us, for Swedes living in the UK, for British people living in Sweden, for those who shop and study. This would create considerable uncertainty in many ways. I am sure that the Government Office is discussing the various options available to avoid such a chaotic scenario. I think it is important that we conduct the political debate openly, that we discuss what Sweden's interest is in such a case. Despite all the rigid rules, there are opportunities for creative solutions, such as freezing the situation that is over a certain period of time, what is called stopping the clock. There are, of course, opportunities to reopen negotiations in some way, if you wish. I would like to hear what the Prime Minister sees as the main scenario for the rather likely outcome of the House of Commons failing the agreement.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-14	Mr President, I would like to It is exactly as Jonas Sjöstedt describes it. There is uncertainty in the British House of Commons. However, as I also said in my re-reporting, I do not want to speculate too much on the outcome of this. There is still time, and it is clear that we are hoping for a vote in favour of the agreement. But it is up to the democratic process there. We have always said that the worst thing is to be without agreements. As Mr Sjöstedt says, it will affect citizens, the financial settlement and the issue of Ireland. What then happens is open. What are the possibilities? Then it is first and foremost the United Kingdom that has to report what it wants to do. The outcome of such a no is also unclear. What's the direction of that no? Sometimes in Britain it has been said that it is better not to have an agreement than to have a bad agreement. It also depends on the nature of this. In that case, Britain must address the European Union with some form of request. It is then up to the EU to decide unanimously what it is prepared to do. As far as negotiations are concerned, I would nevertheless like to say that I do not see any new negotiations ahead of me on a new agreement. It has been negotiated for such a long time, it has been twisted and turned over to all perspectives here and there, and the last issue of Gibraltar was resolved shortly before the European Council. To open it up and start a new negotiation I do not see in front of me. In fact, here the members of the House of Commons in the United Kingdom must know that this is the agreement that is in force and which is the best thing for both parties. That is also what Theresa May expresses.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-18	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the British have to decide what they want. But we also have to decide what we want and what we agree to. I do not think that we can be passive about this. We must see that we have an interest as a nation in having as close relations as possible. I regret that it is not prepared to see it as a political opportunity. The second and a little longer term is that if the UK were to have a new government – which I think would be very good for the British – that government would probably want another agreement with the European Union, an agreement that is much closer to the cooperation that Sweden would like, a closer and more dynamic cooperation perhaps more focused on the environment and social issues. Surely it cannot be the case that Stefan Löfven closes the door to the case of Britain having a new government and for closer cooperation?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-21	Mr President, I would like to It is not a question of being passive or not. Sweden has been extremely clear about this in both the European Union and in bilateral talks with the United Kingdom. We want to get a good exit agreement and also a good future relationship that is as broad and deep as possible. And we believe that the political declaration that has now been adopted by the European Council is of this nature. It points to a very broad and deep cooperation. The fact is, however, that it is the United Kingdom that has to decide what kind of situation you want to end up in and what kind of no it is, should there be a no. We need to know that before we can take a stand. To think that you can say no in order to get a better deal, I judge as a closed road. Now we have negotiated as far as possible, and this agreement is what applies. Now the House of Commons will have to take a stand on it.
i-G4ehnsvdLSSg6dMkL9e2eX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of State, for reporting back! I naturally agree with the Prime Minister that it is extremely regrettable that Britain is about to leave the European Union. I also agree that we have had a broad consensus on the withdrawal agreement itself and the political declaration, and that has been the case throughout the negotiation process. I am convinced that it has been a strength that there has been a broad consensus in Sweden on the negotiations with the United Kingdom. It is also clear that the EU-27 has remained together. There are now many difficult obstacles in Britain on the road to an orderly Brexit. Nor do I think we should speculate about that. However, we know that there will be some form of withdrawal, either an orderly form or a much more chaotic and difficult situation. That is why I would also like to look to the future. Whatever happens in the House of Commons over the next few months, we must look to the future. It is clear that the European Commission is now pressing to complete as many processes as possible before the European Parliament elections in May next year. There is no lack of different positions in other negotiations, such as the EU's next long-term budget, the proposal on digital taxation or the common migration policy, if there is a broad consensus in the EU on Brexit negotiations. Here Britain has been one of Sweden's most important allies. We have had good cooperation, and it has been good for Sweden's interests in the EU. Expiry risks having major consequences for Swedish influence. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister how he and the government, in response to the withdrawal of the British, have switched up their efforts to find new partners and allies in the difficult challenges ahead.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-28	Mr President, I would like to I share Karin Enström's view that unity is important, both the one that Sweden has had and the one with the EU-27. Many believed that such unity might not be possible. However, it has succeeded, which has been extremely important. The Commission and Chief Negotiator Barnier have had to deal with this. Although there have been bilateral discussions between shipyards, we have always been able to bring it back to agreement on this. It's a force. In the future, as Karin Enström pointed out, we have some big things to deal with. This applies not least to the long-term budget and the issue of migration. There are lots of questions. It is quite correct that in many respects the United Kingdom has held views similar to those of us on these issues. But Sweden has made sure to build bilateral dialogues with other countries, such as Germany and Holland. We also have the Nordic-Baltic Group meeting before each meeting. So we have both multilateral and bilateral collections where, of course, we are already presenting our position for various negotiations and decisions. All this has been happening for a long time, even during the government before ours. Our government has stuck to it, and we intend to continue like this. Just as Karin Enström knows, it is through regular meetings that you create trust. I would say that we have a very good dialogue with many countries. We do not always share the same view on different issues, but we have a good dialogue. We'll make sure to keep doing that, because that's the only possible thing.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-34	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the Prime Minister's reply. I, too, would like to see another change. We know that, regardless of what Britain's withdrawal looks like, it is in Sweden's interest to build as good relationships with like-minded people as possible. It may not always be the same countries on different issues. As I have said before, I assume that the government and the Government Office have identified in which areas we have the greatest opportunity to build alliances. On some issues, we are quite alone after the UK has left the active work. In addition, if the worst happens and it does not become an orderly Brexit, we must, together with others, find as good forms of cooperation with the United Kingdom as possible. This applies both between the EU and the UK and between Sweden and the UK.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-37	Mr President, I would like to As far as the latest is concerned, that is also our ambition. We have spoken to the UK and said that when this is over, we want to have as good a relationship as possible, of course, both between the EU and the UK and bilaterally between Sweden and the UK. I feel that there is trust between the countries, which ensures that this is the case. As far as the change is concerned, as I said, we have different forums. The Nordic-Baltic is an important forum. But we also have a very good dialogue with, for example, Holland as well as with Spain and Portugal. I was in Slovenia myself a while ago. It is through long-term relationships that trust can be built, and then you can also reach each other on issues where you may not agree on the starting point. But it is possible to do so. There is not only a readiness, but also an ongoing effort to have as strong a relationship as possible.
i-B6DfoBpyTvnoWegRVCu3gB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Britain's withdrawal from the EU is often likened to divorce. Usually it is the party that is left who has the greatest problem accepting the situation. In this case, however, it is a bit strange. Rather, it seems to be the one who decided to leave who has the most difficulty in deciding what to do in the future. Nevertheless, it is satisfactory that there is now an agreement and that the European Council has agreed on a joint declaration on the future and what the withdrawal should be. As many have said, it is, of course, very regrettable that Britain is leaving the EU. In many ways it is a close ally to Sweden. Now it remains for the British Parliament to take a position on this, which we have debated many times. Since uncertainty is great, it is very good and reassuring that the Prime Minister and the Government Office are prepared for all possible scenarios. As has also been said before, there has been a surprisingly large consensus within the EU-27 on the way forward. I would like to ask a question about this. Hopefully we will now perhaps go over in the next phase when we will find out what will actually apply in the future. What is the Prime Minister's view of cohesion within the EU-27? Will the various interests and wishes of the various countries be expressed more clearly? How does the Prime Minister view the coordination in this regard?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-44	Mr President, I would like to I share Åsa Westlund's view that we should be prepared for what we do not want to happen. As far as the future relationship is concerned, I believe that this political declaration is a good basis. It will not automatically mean that everything will go painlessly. That's not gonna happen. There will always be a balance between being inside and being outside – where is the limit of what can be tolerated if you are not a member? Nevertheless, I think that the declaration is so broad in its content about the future economic work such as trade in goods, exports of services and financial services. These are also areas such as transport, energy, security and defence. Both parties have here chiseled out that they want a broad and deep relationship. My assessment is that this is a good platform for that. We will, of course, come up with a number of difficult considerations. I don't want to suggest an easy journey. However, I would like to say that I believe that the political declaration is a good basis for future discussions.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-48	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. There are many parts to be negotiated in the future. We talk very often about the trade in goods and services, which is of course hugely important for an export-dependent country like Sweden. We also often talk about the future conditions for the 100 000 Swedish citizens living in the UK and for British citizens in the EU-27. These are, of course, super important questions. However, environmental and climate issues are also among the most important issues for the EU. There, the EU has achieved great success in raising the bar for many countries, reducing our common emissions and strengthening consumer protection. This isn't discussed very much. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister how he views these issues. Will they also be an important part of the future negotiations between the EU-27 and the UK?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-51	Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset, I believe that the whole agreement is the strongest that will exist with any third country. I do not, of course, include the EEA countries. I do not remember exactly where, but mention is made of the Paris Agreement and that we must work together on global commitments, for example on the issue of climate and the environment, because we have the same interest. This is, of course, a force. Not least in the current situation, where so many countries do not want to live up to this and some do not even believe in the climate threat, it is important. Even if we are separated and Britain leaves the EU, we have the same commitments and visions for the future in terms of the environment and climate.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-53	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. It is positive that we have now reached an agreement and that both the European Council and the British Government have approved it. It's been a tough year. For a long time there has been a question of whether there will really be an agreement, so this is of course a good thing, even that the Gibraltar issue was resolved. This was still perhaps the lowest obstacle on the road. It looks much tougher in the House of Commons, where opposition parties are expected to vote against the agreement under very broad consensus, while the British Government Party may have up to 80 rebels who will not support the agreement. The possibilities for Theresa May to get the agreement through are currently extremely small when following the ongoing debate in the British House of Commons. My view is that the negotiating position of the European Union and also of Sweden has not improved the chances of achieving sufficient unity in the British Parliament. The backstop solution is hard to buy for the British. Even the relatively unclear declaration of future relations is hard to buy for many British people. They would have liked to see a much clearer declaration on future relations. In addition, the Prime Minister says almost absolutely no other agreement can be negotiated under any circumstances. In fact, it looks like we are in danger of moving towards a chaotic solution without exit agreements. I wonder, Prime Minister: is it really the case that under no circumstances is it possible to negotiate a new agreement when this agreement is expected to fall?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-58	Mr President, I would like to I share the picture of the complexity of this. First of all, we are talking about the decisions that are now to be taken in the parliaments. It is estimated that this will be approved in the European Parliament, but then there is the House of Commons. Should it be yes there, we will nevertheless have very complex negotiations on the future relationship ahead of us. They'll be even harder. Then such an agreement proposal will be ratified by all countries. The process ahead is very complex. It's really hard. Backstop's been negotiated. The whole withdrawal agreement and the political declaration have been approved by the British Government. Two parties have negotiated a solution. In all these negotiation processes, it is clear that sooner or later it must begin to narrow down so that you can see what you can agree on. If you have come to the point where both parties think the agreement is good, should you start the process again? Then we have a process that will never end. In fact, somewhere you have to decide what's going on. Should we now tell the British House of Commons that there is certainly something else we can come up with if they do not like this, that would not be a good signal. That would make the process more difficult. This is something that both parties have expressed. This is for both parties the best agreement we can come up with, and it is about voting on that particular agreement. If there is a 'no' in the House of Commons and the United Kingdom is asking for some sort of extension – I do not know exactly what will be requested – then the EU-27 will have to take a stand on what that would mean. But I cannot imagine that this would suddenly begin to be negotiated in order to see what can be found that has not already been found in this long negotiation process.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-61	Mr President, I would like to It is positive to hear that the Prime Minister becomes somewhat more unclear about the question of what will happen after the House of Commons has made a decision. I think it is important that it is Swedish interests that become superior to the Swedish position in the negotiations. Swedish interests are that we can have as close relations with the British as possible and that we can continue to act. Today we have actually one of our major Swedish cities in London, seen how many Swedes live there. I think it is important to be prepared to compromise in order to achieve as close a relationship as possible and to start talking a little less about the bad thing about picking raisins out of the cake. Perhaps it is the case that we can all take the raisins out of the cake and that we can both gain from it if we can have a more flexible agreement and as close a relationship as possible.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-63	Mr President, I would like to If you're going to pick the raisins out of the cake, there's nothing. I can tell you that right away. Nobody's interested in it. The UK is very important to Sweden. We have always protected that relationship, and we will continue to do so. We have a good dialogue with the United Kingdom, and we will ensure that the bilateral relationship between our two countries is as good as ever. But we should also not forget that the EU-27 should stick together. That is why we chose the methodology we chose. The European Union is even more important to us. Nor is there anyone interested in having a situation in the EU where membership is loosened up by the back door.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-66	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for the information. Thank you for the information I would like to thank you for the exchange of information with the Prime Minister and his staff that we have had during the work. It has been valuable for us and for me, but also for the sake of it, I think. This has led to the consensus that we have on this issue, and I think that is good for Sweden. I also think it is good for Europe in general. To my questions: Can the Prime Minister see something that this divorce agreement needs to be supplemented with? Did we leave something out? Have we forgotten something that is important for this to lead to further development in us and – as we also wish – in the United Kingdom? I say this on the grounds that this agreement, as I see it, is very important for people. It's people who create businesses. It's people studying. It's people living on both sides. If there is any concern among those people, the activity that will lead to development will cease. Hence this long and perhaps seemingly complicated question. I put it anyway because I am extremely anxious that people should feel safe in everyday life so that everyone gets the development that we all want. My second question concerns a possible extension, which the Prime Minister has talked about several times. Is there agreement among the EU-27 that the Prime Minister sees it to allow for an extension if it should come into question? I say this about the fact that we now have a budget period.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-71	Mr President, I would like to As far as the first question of supplementing the agreement is concerned, we believe that this is the best thing from a citizen's perspective. This means, for example, that citizens are now allowed to retain their rights. This applies to Swedes or other EU citizens living in the UK and vice versa. Of course, I cannot guarantee that there will never be any question marks, but this is the best possible agreement for citizens to retain their rights and feel secure. I think I mean it. One can always think about the new relationship that the EU and the UK will have. If so, what will Sweden need to complement bilaterally in the bilateral relationship? Of course, all that work remains. As far as a possible extension is concerned, there is no such thing now. It hasn't been on the wallpaper. If it is a no, what will Britain do? Will you apply for and ask for something, and what kind of character is it? It's written in the stars. We don't know that. The EU-27 will then have to consider the request and the application if the UK so requests. But it's just speculation what it's going to mean. That is precisely when you can take a stand on it. We do not know what Britain wants in that case.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It is important to tell the citizens that it is as good as it can be. It is now time to calm the fears and develop Europe in the future as well. I see extremely serious problems with a possible extension on the grounds that we have a choice, a budget and a lot of positions to make that are time-determined. I want a reflection on that, Prime Minister. Is it at all possible to discuss an extension?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-78	Mr President, I would like to It's because of a little fir n. I can't see that's what's going to happen in the first place. Should the British apply for such a thing, it again depends on the nature. It would be wrong for me to stand and say that it is completely out of the question. Depends on what an extension looks like. I share Mr Erlandsson's view that this process will affect both the elections and the long-term budget. The two things would not simplify. I'm completely clear on that. If so, I would like to allow that decision to fall.
i-Lem45y7u1AAcoRJoUgv4cc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The British have previously voted in a referendum to leave the EU. After 21 months of negotiations, both the European Union and the United Kingdom have agreed to withdraw on 29 March next year. The British Government and the Council of Ministers have voted in favour of approving the withdrawal agreement. In December, the British Parliament will vote on the withdrawal agreement. Finally, as mentioned earlier, the European Parliament also needs to approve the Brexit Agreement. Mr President, I would like to British ministers have resigned in protest of the agreement. There is an imminent risk that the British Parliament will reject the agreement, which risks leading to a harsh Brexit and that Britain will leave the EU unabated1. As we know, this would have devastating consequences for future cooperation for both parties. My questions to the Prime Minister are: how does the Prime Minister view the possibility of avoiding a harsh Brexit if the British Parliament says no to the agreement? If the British Parliament votes against the agreement, what is the Prime Minister's view of the possibility of fleeing to the date of withdrawal on 29 March?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-82	Mr President, I would like to I can go straight to the questions. I also share the views expressed by Robert Halef here. It will be extremely difficult if there is a no in the House of Commons. Unfortunately, then, we are closer to an unsettled, disorderly withdrawal. That would be very serious. The possibility of avoiding a harsh Brexit in that case is difficult to pronounce. Once again, I do not see any renegotiation of the agreement. Actually, I don't see that. With regard to a request for an extension and to postpone the date of withdrawal, the EU-27 must take a position on it, and there must be agreement on this. Just as was said earlier here by Eskil Erlandsson, it complicates other processes. Let's take that decision then when it comes and take one thing at a time. We'll have to prepare for that and take that question then. Then we must also know: what type of application or request is the UK submitting? We simply do not yet know the conditions for such a decision, and I would like to leave it. But it obviously looks like we have a great risk of getting into some kind of discussion.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-88	Mr President, I would like to It has been mentioned that British people live in Sweden and in other parts of the EU. We also have many Swedes, 100 000, who live and work in the UK. It is gratifying that the 100 000 Swedes living in the UK and 1 million British people living in the European Union are not hit hard by this Brexit. It is gratifying to see the agreement and that this problem has already been resolved. Mr President, I would like to It is planned that the UK will leave the EU on 29 March. During a transitional period of 21 months, an agreement will then continue to be negotiated to regulate borders, customs duties, trade and more. The agreement also provides for an extension of the time limit. The idea is to find a solution to the question of the Irish border, among other things, during this time. This border dispute is a very important and sensitive issue. My question to the Prime Minister is: what guarantees are there that this border dispute will be resolved so that the agreement will not fall?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-91	Mr President, I would like to Just the dates and time limits listed by Robert Halef apply with the possibility of an extension. That's what Robert Halef said. It's important to say it. If it is very artificial, you can extend it one or two years at the end of the six months. That possibility remains. Everyone agrees that the backstop now in force for Northern Ireland is not the one that should apply in the future. You just want to find another solution. That is what Northern Ireland, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the European Union want. That's what you've signed. It will continue to work on this. There is no guarantee of finding another solution. But everyone is determined to try to do so. Nevertheless, we still have to believe that it is possible.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-94	Mr President, Prime Minister. We have discussed the withdrawal on many occasions, and we have been lamented over and over again. There is really no point in speculating on what can now happen in the UK Parliament. Either it'll be an approval, or it won't be. What the European countries, including Sweden, need to be prepared for is to deal with the situations that arise whether there is an orderly or a disorderly exit. For many, perhaps even all, European countries, Britain is one of the most important trading partners. For Sweden this is undoubtedly the case; we have centuries of trade with this country. Unfortunately, however, many Swedish companies, although we have been prepared for this for two and a half years, are unprepared for what will happen. One thing is quite clear: if Britain leaves a common trading union, the flow of goods will stop. Trade does not increase when you separate your relationships. We should also be aware that thousands of companies will reduce their presence or perhaps even move from Britain. At this point in time, industry, if not guarantees, needs at least an assurance that the new relationship will create the best possible relationship with the United Kingdom. This leads us to the question of what it looks like in Sweden. Here it is important that the companies that operate and want to continue to operate in the UK also after the withdrawal will receive strong support from the Swedish authorities and ultimately the government. My question to the Prime Minister is: How is the government prepared to provide robust support to Swedish companies?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-99	Mr President, I would like to We have to be prepared for all outcomes, and we are. We are also preparing for the worst: that we have no agreement at the time of withdrawal. This will, of course, affect not least the Swedish companies, as Mr Rothenberg rightly points out here. Therefore, preparations are already under way for different scenarios. How are customs duties and the financial sector affected? How is transport affected? These are, for example, aviation and permits and a variety of other issues. The government, the ministries and the authorities are working on this. This, of course, also includes a dialogue with the Swedish companies and an analysis of the consequences and how we then need to act to mitigate these consequences as much as possible. The work is in progress, and it has to be in progress. It will continue until we know what the result will be, and even with that knowledge we will certainly have to continue to work to facilitate and support our Swedish companies as much as possible.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-102	Mr President, the Prime Minister. I have had a discussion with the Minister for Trade on this, and I understand that the government and its authorities have essentially had a dialogue with business organisations. But there are many businesses in rural areas, in big cities and in small towns – small businesses, family businesses and small businesses – that are very worried and rather lost in what to do. At this point, they may not call their trade association to hear how to get help, but they need firm help. With respect for that we have an expedition minister: D et is in Sweden's interest, in the interest of all parties and in the interest of the entire business community that the government is active and maybe put in a trade room instead of a war room that can provide strong support to Swedish companies.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-105	Mr President, I would like to I believe that dialogue is needed both with the organisations representing companies and with companies. There is no dialogue that is closed and nothing that says that we cannot talk to individual companies. On the other hand, it may not be possible for the government to speak to all companies individually. Business organisations represent them, and we believe that dialogue with them is important. You shouldn't underestimate it. However, individual companies should of course also be assisted by the authorities. That should be the case, and if it somehow doesn't work, we need to improve it. However, as also pointed out, a transitional government has a little limited scope. Voting has taken place in this House, and it gave us limited space. However, the government is doing everything in our power to ensure that the Swedish companies are also at risk in this process, although it is difficult.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-110	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party welcomes the proposals for changes in investment rules for the First – Fourth AP Funds. The changes are in line with what we have been pushing for a long time to adapt and modernise the AP Funds' regulatory framework. On the other hand, we believe that the rules limiting the influence of the funds in public limited liability companies should also be amended. The current rules include two provisions limiting the influence of the companies in which it is invested. Firstly, the market value of a fund's holding of shares in Swedish companies admitted to trading on a regulated market in Sweden may not exceed 2 per cent of the total market value. Secondly, the voting rights of an individual company may not exceed 10 %. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party believes that these limits need to be raised in order to be able to use the AP funds as part of a strategic industrial policy. A strategic business policy that provides jobs in Sweden is, in our view, one of the most important means of securing pensions in the long term. Working provides higher pensions for the individual but also contributes to a stronger economy. Of course, this can be combined with a strong return. Mr President, I would like to The proposal on which the report is based is based on an agreement made in the so-called Pensions Group, where in addition to the parties originally responsible for the pension settlement – the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals – now also includes the Green Party. Today, Swedish pension money goes to mining that violates human rights and pollutes the environment, to companies that harass and use violence against human rights defenders and to companies that have strong links with the nuclear industry. The Swedish National AP Funds are therefore investing in a number of companies that directly counteract Sweden's international commitments regarding human rights, climate and the environment. With all due respect to the fact that it is a responsible task to provide good returns on pension capital, it is nevertheless clear that it is not this kind of bang for the money that most people have seen before them. It is therefore fundamentally positive that a new objective is now being proposed for the funds to manage pension funds in an exemplary way through responsible investment and ownership. However, Mr President, the Left Party believes that the objective is insufficient and unclear as to what is at stake when it comes to the matter. Mr President, I would like to We want much tougher demands to be made in terms of environmental and climate concerns regarding the investments made by the funds. By this we mean that environmental and ethical considerations should be equated with the objective of high returns. The AP Funds shall not make new investments in coal, oil or fossil gas. The AP funds will phase out existing investments in the fossil industry within five years. All AP funds shall have quantitative targets for investments in renewable energy. All AP funds shall account for calculated greenhouse gas emissions for their investments. AP funds shall not invest in companies that use tax havens to avoid taxation. Because, Mr President, we can actually make a difference. When the other parliamentary parties risk allowing short-term yield requirements to prevail over environmental considerations, we choose instead to take responsibility for using the tools that actually exist to reverse developments. There is a lot of talk about the environment, and there are expectations of the individual to live climate smart and change their consumption. Would it not be reasonable, then, for responsibility for the transition to be taken together through political decisions and investment? Of course, the Left Party also sees a high return on pension funds as important. It would be disrespectful to current and future pensioners to want something else. In fact, the situation of pensioners is one of the things that is absolutely at the top of our agenda. But we see no contradiction between high returns and taking environmental and ethical considerations into account. Mr President, I would like to Today, the pursuit of commissions risks influencing investment, despite the fact that one of the causes of the 2008 financial crisis was precisely risky investments. I therefore find it difficult to understand how all the other parliamentary parties can allow this to continue. We know that it was the pensioners who had to pay the bill in connection with the financial crisis. People who had worked their whole lives had to see their pension reduced when the so-called brake in the pension system hit. That, if anything, threatens stability and long-term returns. The Left Party therefore proposes that the variable remuneration system with bonuses and commissions be abolished within the AP funds. Mr President, I would like to It is about combining high returns with demands for environmental sustainability, ethical values, strategic business policy for jobs, a fair pension system and a stronger Swedish economy. In documents following documents from the Pensions Group's work over time, one of the main reasons for changing the old pension systems, especially in the motives for introducing the automatic brake, was to ensure that debts were not overloaded in later generations. Therefore, Mr President, it is incomprehensible to me that the same group does not want us to do everything in our power to ensure that current pension funds are used so that future generations are given reasonable conditions, both in terms of economy and living environment. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation.
i-NXqVKhzaLSPTauh3bAhnS4	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Finance Committee's report No 14 which deals with the change of rules for the First – Fourth AP Funds. I would like to start by calling for the proposal in the report and for the regulation to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. A stable and sustainable pension system is an important basis for society. A pension system is also an expression of a generation and community contract. It's about trust and trust. Our current pension system, its functioning, its quality and what it delivers are the subject of a lively and important debate from time to time. It is a debate that I have a great deal of sympathy for, which is important and which I am sure will continue. The Swedish pension system is based on a broad cross-block agreement and is managed by the so-called Pensions Group. It is, in many respects, a wise way of handling and nurturing political agreements of this nature. Mr President, I would like to First – Fourth AP Funds are important parts of our pension system. The funds manage and place the so-called buffer. It is a buffer that currently amounts to SEK 1 450 billion or about 15 per cent of the total assets of the income pension system. The overall objective of the funds is to ensure that the management contributes to the greatest possible benefit for income pensions. When the target is reached that the return on the management of the funds exceeds the income index, this means that the entire income pension system will be strengthened. Today's investment rules for the funds are designed based on what the market looked like in the second half of the 1990s. Since then, much has happened, not least in the financial market. It is therefore both wise and welcome that the regulatory framework has been reviewed and that we can now, in broad agreement, decide on changes. The proposal is also strongly rooted in the Pensions Group. I would like to point out some of the changes proposed in the bill that I am convinced will lead to better opportunities for the First – Fourth AP Funds to be able to further contribute to strengthening income pension. Firstly, the proportion of funds that may be invested in illiquid assets is increased to 40%. With a long investment horizon and a relatively limited need for liquidity, this allows for investments that provide better returns in the future. Secondly, and by analogy, the requirement for investment in interest-bearing paper is reduced. The requirement is reduced from 30% to 20%. In the low-interest economy in which we now live, it also provides the funds with the opportunity to achieve a better result. Thirdly, a new and clear target is being set for funds to manage pension funds in an exemplary way through responsible investment and ownership. It sends a clear signal to the funds and their managements to fulfil their mission in a way that meets the requirements of environmental, social and corporate governance aspects. In the Government's annual follow-up, which, of course, lands on Parliament's table, this will, of course, be a central point in the future. Mr President, I would like to There are those who believe that the new target is not ambitious enough. It is believed that the target should specify higher and more precise requirements and that it should be equated with, or perhaps even superior to, the yield target. I can understand why it feels good to call for more and tougher legislation. But that does not mean that more or harder legislation generates a desirable outcome. I am quite convinced of the opposite in this case. Firstly, we cannot turn a blind eye to the primary task of the funds, namely to contribute to good pensions. It is therefore not the question of sovereign investment funds that should allow funding for a desirable project. Secondly, too detailed a regulation of placements would be a blunt instrument. Legislation is a rather square model for dealing with this type of issue. As soon as a target is met or new findings and results change previous positions on sustainability, for example, the legislation would become obsolete and need to be amended. Similarly, with the proposal for new evaluation bodies. I am fully convinced that the government, in its role and with annual evaluations, is more than capable of monitoring the compliance of the funds with the regulatory framework. With the work of the government, with the continued work of the Pensions Group and with a continued active debate here in Parliament, I am convinced that the proposal we are now taking a stand on is both able to deliver its share of a good pension system and can contribute to a more responsible capital market.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-139	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on food and pharmaceutical supply. Since we have a deteriorating safety situation in the outside world and an armed attack cannot be ruled out, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on food and pharmaceutical supplies raises many thoughts. Defending Sweden and safeguarding our common security, freedom and independence is a responsibility for the whole of society and ultimately requires a personal effort from all of us. The basis for our total defense is all of us who live here and our common resilience to face various attacks. Individuals have their own responsibility to provide their own food for seven days. After that, it is the responsibility of civil defence to protect the civilian population and to deal with the consequences of an armed attack or crisis for three months. In view of what I have just said, there are four quotations from the Swedish National Audit Office's review report that I would like to highlight a little extra. The first is that there is a lack of clear objectives or guiding targets for food and pharmaceutical supply and leaves a great deal of room for interpretation at the Swedish Food and Welfare Authority and the National Board of Health and Welfare to coordinate crisis and contingency planning, as well as among other stakeholders in terms of responsibilities, requirements and levels of ambition. ..................................................... The second is that both the Swedish Food Safety Agency and the National Board of Health and Welfare, as well as the county councils, have called for clarification of what the authorities' responsibilities mean and what they are expected to achieve. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is therefore that there is a risk that measures will be delayed, or not taken, as it is not clear who will do what and when the measures will be implemented. ..................................................... Thirdly, both the Swedish Food Safety Agency and the National Board of Health and Welfare lack explicit reporting requirements and targeted funding for the work they are expected to carry out within the framework of their assigned coordination assignments. ..................................................... The fourth and final point is that the Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that there are not sufficiently clear conditions, and not enough measures are taken, to create the conditions for food and pharmaceutical supply in the event of a crisis or under increased preparedness. ..................................................... All in all, three words come back, Mr President, three words symbolising areas where improvement should already have taken place:
i-c059e775ded80ab2-151	The government's lack of clarity raises issues of responsibility in the authorities and can put the civilian population in great suffering in times of crisis or war. In the absence of food and medicines, the people's willingness to support total defence may waver, as the alternative of giving up their freedom in the hope that peace under other banners can again provide supplies to the family seems increasingly attractive. Mr President, I would like to I sum it up in one sentence: this is disrespect for our people. It is high time that we prepared food and pharmaceutical emergency stocks, partly because operators who had this task in their area of responsibility have ceased to function in their previous form and partly as a result of previous governments having dismantled this fundamental part of civil defence. Nor is there a system for rationing food, medicines or other basic goods that are important for the security of society. An example of this is that Apoteket AB was previously responsible for managing the supply of drugs in crisis and war. This ended in 2009. Today, there is no player who has a clear responsibility for this particular area. We believe that this is a major shortcoming in Swedish emergency preparedness that needs to be addressed urgently. The Defence Committee also agrees with the problem of preparedness storage and rationing in its interim report Resistance. In this report, the defence committee is very clear. There is a need for both emergency storage and increased self-sufficiency of food to get around the problem of import chains being broken in the event of crisis and war. In its response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government refers in general terms to extended planning assignments that have been given to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to clarify what conditions exist in this area. However, the Government does not specify what should apply in relation to emergency storage and rationing, although both the Swedish Defence Committee and the Swedish National Audit Office specifically mention these areas. Mr President, I would like to In our opinion, there is no reason to be unclear in this area. We therefore believe that the government should develop a system of state rationing and emergency storage of food and medicines. I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-159	Mr President, I would like to We are here today in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the deficiencies in Swedish food and pharmaceutical supply. It's not a merry reading. Our preparedness is good," said Per Albin Hansson about Sweden's food supply during the Second World War. Unfortunately, we cannot say that today. Of course, a lot has happened since Per Albin's days, but the fact is that today about 50% of the food we eat is imported. We know what would happen if imports were stopped: we would last ten or twelve days; then food supplies would be gone. As a Gotlander, I know that if the Gotland ferry stops, the shelves in the shops will be empty within three to four days. Individual households usually last only a few days. Mr President, I would like to The lasting feeling after reading the Swedish National Audit Office's report is that now we have to start learning to bunker again, because so great are the deficiencies in food and pharmaceutical supplies in Sweden today. So big are the system failures after the government's management. The Center Party has long called for the division of responsibilities in food preparedness in the event of a crisis to be clarified and made more orderly. We have presented our own follow-up motion on the food strategy, highlighting, among other things, the importance of reducing the vulnerability of the food chain to crisis and clarifying the distribution of responsibility for food preparedness in the event of crisis. The first thing we think needs to be done is an investigation that points out vulnerabilities throughout the food chain and how the shortcomings that emerge can be minimised. Mr President, I would like to We share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the Food Safety Agency's coordination mission for food security is unclear. This is largely due to the fact that primary production is not included. The mission does not relate to any longer crises or increased preparedness. After the summer drought, everyone understands that it is not possible to overlook the role of primary production in livelihood. It's elementary. The Center Party sees Swedish agriculture as an important part of Swedish total defence and crisis preparedness planning in the future. What Sweden needs is increased food supply, domestic supply, and this is achieved only by increasing competitiveness in Sweden. One way can of course be to choose Swedish food in public procurement and make the same demands as when we legislate on it. Another way could actually be to increase exports of Swedish food. Then we'll get the production up, and that'll reduce the vulnerability. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Red-Green Government has said that it is working in this direction but has not done so. On the contrary, additional charges have been imposed. One example is the kilometre tax; another is higher taxation of agricultural workers. It will be a brake block for Swedish food production. In practice, this means that farms are shut down and production moves abroad. As a result, the vulnerability of food security increases most radically. It is in exactly the opposite direction to what we need to go in. Mr President, I would like to As a centre party, I see, of course, that agriculture has an important role, but there are other parts that are also central. The principle that has been drawn up in recent decades, precisely the in-time principle, in which we have in practice all stored on lorries, is an aggravating factor. At the same time, fuel and transport capacity are expected to become critical resources in times of concern. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office also mentions that there are uncertainties as to how private actors are expected to take responsibility when it comes to socially important functions and that there are no target images that provide the conditions for cooperation with, for example, agreements. The Defence Committee was in Finland last week and heard how they are working on these issues. There we have little to learn in Sweden when it comes to including the private functions in the responsibility that the whole society has. Of course, we also believe that the individual needs to take greater responsibility for his or her own livelihood. Finally, I would like to say that there is still much to be done in this area. That is why it is unfortunate and, in fact, indefensible that the government has been so passive during the past term of office – the term of office when total defence planning has resumed and we have had a security policy situation that has deteriorated significantly. Inaction is striking, far-reaching and very embarrassing. I would therefore like to support the Centre Party's reservation.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-170	Mr President, I would like to In this letter, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined the conditions for creating robustness in two very important functions for society: our food and pharmaceutical supply. Perhaps not many people reflect on the robustness of our supply systems on a regular Wednesday in November. I think we'll take it easy for granted. In the grocery store it is full of shelves, and in pharmacies there is now everything between heaven and earth. But the fact is that both pharmaceutical and food supplies are made up of many long and complex chains. The characteristic of both the food and pharmaceutical industries is that they are industries operating in an international environment, with a high degree of foreign ownership. Business actors, of course, play a crucial role, from research and manufacturing of new medicines to the distribution and transport of the food we put on the table. To illustrate the complexity, there are 800 wholesalers in Europe supplying 173 000 pharmacies, hospitals and clinics with medicines. Although the level of self-sufficiency on the food side is significantly higher than in the pharmaceutical sector, we still have a high dependence on imports of raw materials and inputs, for example, for our domestic food production. The number of grocery stores in Sweden has decreased, and for the consumer the distance to the stores has increased. The distribution is conducted for business reasons in accordance with the just-in-time concept. The Swedish National Audit Office's report thus examines our ability to cope with supply at a system-wide level during a more severe crisis. The Swedish National Audit Office makes several important observations with which it is easy to agree, such as the need for further governance and the need to clarify the objectives of the responsible authorities. At the same time, I would not say that these conclusions come as a surprise. In fact, it is only in recent years that we in Sweden have moved away from a peace-time rationality and have seriously begun to associate with difficult questions such as what happens if the regular livelihoods are cut off, how we ask about society and how we prioritise. During the Cold War, there were answers to such questions. Everyone who is familiar with the contingency planning of the past understands what extensive work lies ahead of us, partly with regaining lost ability and partly with meeting the challenges arising from the fact that society has undergone fundamental changes in a number of areas. We see a sharp increase in digitalisation and internationalisation. But privatisations and liberalisations are also examples of changes that have affected our contingency plans in various ways. A concrete example, Mr President, directly linked to the review by the National Audit Office, is the liberalisation of the pharmacy market under the previous bourgeois government. Until liberalisation, the State Apoteket had a special responsibility to maintain a stock and supply readiness and to meet the needs of the total defence. In the context of liberalisation, Apoteket's special mission disappeared and was not replaced by a corresponding requirement for the new private operators. Preparedness deteriorated. The letter from the Swedish National Audit Office lasts for ten years. It is a long period, in which we have seen only in recent years a clear shift in security policy that has also left a mark on political decisions. The work on civil defence has now come a little bit along the way. Currently, Government Sweden is in a process of creating common planning conditions. Work takes place within and between authorities in designated sectors. Among other things, security authorities such as the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Agriculture Agency will have access to relevant parts of the Swedish Armed Forces' planning for an armed attack, which is an important step in linking civil and military defence. In addition to providing financial resources for civil defence for the first time in decades, the Government has also set up three investigations related to the areas examined in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It is about the investigation on responsibility, management and coordination in civil defence, the investigation on health care preparedness and the investigation on the role of industry in total defence. These three investigations will each give us important answers for the work of coordinating, clarifying governance and, not least, including industry in total defence planning. It is our view, Mr President, that we should now await these investigations as well as the forthcoming reports of the Defence Committee. Therefore, I propose that the Riksdag add the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office to the record.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-181	Mr President, I would like to The combined threats and risks facing Sweden require a withdrawal of total defence. Now we have both the Swedish Defence Committee's report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021-2025 and the Swedish National Audit Office's review of society's safety and important social functions with a focus on food and pharmaceutical supply. Overall, we can see in both reports that there are a lot of important improvement proposals. It cannot be, Mr President, that we do not have enough food and medicine in times of crisis. The Swedish National Audit Office mentions that safeguarding the functionality of society is one of the three objectives of the Riksdag for the safety of society. In order to achieve these goals, efforts are needed from actors throughout society, not least from the government and the authorities that have an important role to play in creating a system for the whole. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that there are insufficiently clear conditions and insufficient measures are taken to create the conditions for food and pharmaceutical supply in the event of a crisis or under increased preparedness. We just can't have that. Mr President, I would like to On the question of governance and responsibilities regarding food and pharmaceutical supplies, the Swedish National Audit Office considers, among other things, that the government is not sufficiently clear. Furthermore, they believe that although the government has expressed ambitions and taken action, this has not given a clear lead in governance. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office lands in a couple of recommendations to the Government: that the Government should clarify objectives, requirements and responsibilities, in particular clarify what is expected of the authorities with coordination responsibilities and ensure collaboration. This is not quite simple. The Swedish National Audit Office also makes recommendations to the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and MSB regarding increased collaboration, follow-up and knowledge acquisition. This is very important. Clearer governance, clear objectives and follow-up of results are therefore needed. Mr President, I would like to As an economist with a main focus on organisation and leadership, I really appreciate the views and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. Who is responsible, how it should be managed and how everything should be coordinated – these are the main issues, and we Moderates look forward to the re-reporting of the government's mission to investigate this. We Moderates also see the need to include industry in total defence. Many of the skills and resources in total defence that were previously under public actors are now available in the Swedish business community. This means that industry must be included in the recovery of total defence. The government has set up an investigation into the role of industry in total defence, which we think is important and good. We're waiting for reports back from that investigation. The Government has also set up an investigation into the preparedness and ability of health care services for and in the event of serious events in peacetime and increased preparedness and has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to support the county councils in their work on emergency medical preparedness and planning for civil defence in health care. Here we Moderates think it is important to also check that each county council uses public funds to actually have good preparedness and stock, so that it does not look completely different. Mr President, I would like to Planning and organisation are key words in making our society more robust and sustainable. By planning for difficult situations, we also become stronger and more secure in our everyday lives.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-192	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin this speech by thanking the Swedish National Audit Office for the review report. It's extremely important. During the last term of office, Sweden has gone from a non-existent awareness of crisis to beginning to understand that Sweden can also be exposed to serious crisis situations. The S-MP government has worked a lot on these issues, from deciding to reintroduce military service to deciding together with the bourgeois parties on a block-crossing work with a unique food strategy for Sweden, which highlights, among other things, the need for increased food production and increased self-sufficiency in Sweden. Sweden's level of self-sufficiency must be taken seriously again. We live in a global world and are a country that is dependent on exports and imports. But when it comes to crisis awareness and pre-crisis planning, it is important to realise that we are moving towards a more unstable world– if we are not already there– and that we need planning for this. In the area of agricultural and food security, the Swedish National Audit Office has been clear. There's work going on. As far as the pharmaceutical issue is concerned, the situation is much more complex because, following the liberalisation of the pharmacy market, Sweden lacks a natural central organisation that can take responsibility for storage. Access to medicines and food is fundamental. We know that. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we in Sweden have systems for the supply of medicines and food to work even in various crisis situations. In the past there were state emergency stocks that were intended for a situation of increased preparedness or a war but could also be used in a crisis. These stocks are decommissioned. Therefore, the supply of food and medicines depends on the functioning of all parts of a complex chain. Governance and management in several different areas is therefore of the utmost importance. Furthermore, we know that food and pharmaceutical chains are internationalised, which of course can lead to increased vulnerability. The Swedish National Audit Office has thus examined how it works – how we behave, you can say – and then it is not only about the government but also about the authorities that the responsibility is largely located. The overall assessment is that the mandates given by the government to those ultimately responsible for the functioning of the supply are not sufficiently clear. I have great confidence in the audits of the Swedish National Audit Office. They work in a clearly defined area and are in a position to really deepen themselves. When they think we are unclear, I understand that we need to clarify the requirements, responsibilities and expectations of those to whom we have requested, given responsibility and have expectations. Although we have worked a lot on this issue during this parliamentary term, there is clearly still some work to be done. This is not being built up for a few years. In the area of food, the assigned co-ordination responsibility for a crisis situation is limited to the post-primary stage. But how do we relate to longer crises and to production, that is, to farmers? Mr President, I would like to I understand that the ambition to be well prepared for the people of society is cross-party. Having a strong civil defence and preparedness for society when it is in crisis is an ambition that we all share. I dare say so. We also know that today's context is much more complicated to operate in, with private – public collaboration and internationalisation of fundamental supply chains. So it is a challenge that we all have to face. When it comes to food, we also need to think about how we can strengthen and ensure production in crisis. We saw last summer that we actually lost half the production in Sweden. That's a lot. In the age of climate change, there will be more hot summers, more snus dry summers. Here we need to direct funds to agriculture, to those who ultimately produce our food, so that they have an infrastructure that works in wet and dry. Because it is wet and dry that it will be about: rain and prolonged drought. Irrigation facilities and wetlands are two important factors here, as well as collecting ponds in the event of rain. We have no tradition of cultivating the land in the conditions that are here now. It is of the utmost importance that we help agriculture to build the infrastructure needed on a farm for a functioning food production even in crisis. Since we are now talking about crisis awareness, I hope that today it goes without saying to all of us that we must do everything we can to stop our CO2 emissions as soon as possible. Sweden needs a new emergency preparedness, and we are about to create it. The government is working on it, and the Riksdag will push for this work. But crisis preparedness will look different from the old one, and it will face completely new challenges, mainly due to climate change, but also, of course, because of the general situation in the world, not least the cyber threats we are facing today where digitalisation goes significantly faster than the development of cyber security. I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-204	Mr President, I would like to We live in a changing world and have done so for many years. Sweden has also been part of this changing world, where we have, among other things, been equipping our total defence for many years and where crisis preparedness has not been at the top of the agenda. This includes Sweden's ability to manage food supply and pharmaceutical supplies in everyday life, in crisis and even in war. When we debate in this House today the Swedish National Audit Office's report on food and medical supplies in Sweden, there are a few impacts that need to be made. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report that medicines in Sweden are currently provided through outpatient pharmacies and through county councils. Landstingen buys into the closed care, and pharmacies buy in to individuals who get medicines prescribed on prescriptions. Usually there is only the amount of medicine that is currently considered necessary by the parties. In addition, they are delivered from the distributors' just-in-time warehouses, as described by the Swedish National Audit Office. This is a very vulnerable system. On Friday's news we heard that this year's vaccine is running out in some places in the country. The National Institute of Public Health only calls on people of different risk groups to vaccinate themselves because it will probably not be enough for more people. In the past, we have been able to read about delivery deficiencies in vaccines for the paediatric vaccination programme. Vaccine is a medicine that takes a long time to produce. It is very worrying that we may not be able to accommodate the fact that everyone who wants to vaccinate can get it. It should be remembered that we are not now in either crisis or war. The amount of medicines produced in Sweden is currently very small. Large parts of the drugs are produced in Asia, not infrequently in countries that are politically unstable or that are climate and weatherly vulnerable. So we and many other countries are totally dependent on being able to import medicines. In summary, the Swedish National Audit Office writes that the Government has not submitted any assignments concerning how the supply of medicinal products and access to medicinal products from a preparedness perspective should be handled or provided. Previously, there were so-called emergency stocks of drugs that could be used if a war or crisis broke out. What such a stock should look like in 2018 and onwards needs to be investigated urgently and urgently. It is very regrettable that the government has not done anything about this in the last four years, when it has been in power, despite the fact that we have seen the security policy situation deteriorate over these four years. The problems and vulnerability were hardly unknown before the Swedish National Audit Office's report or the Swedish Defence Committee's report was presented barely a year ago. Now that the world is concerned, we need to take emergency preparedness very seriously and coordinate the resources and authorities we have to, among other things, tear down walls and instead build cooperation that ensures increased and strengthened capacity to provide medicines for the benefit of the country and its citizens. It is now in peace that we must reduce the vulnerabilities that exist in our livelihoods, so that we are equipped for the serious times that may come. The Center Party has long called for a holistic approach to how Sweden should cope with and strengthen its ability to supply. Unfortunately, the government does not take the same view of this. Individual sector inquiries that are under way are certainly a good start, but there is a great risk of sub-optimisation when starting from details and missing the whole. The overall perspective is very important in terms of preparedness. Mr President, I would like to When talking about emergency preparedness, it is important that the whole social apparatus is involved. The public sector is perhaps an engine of work, but it is equally important that industry and civil society are equipped for this type of preparedness. If we are to build a new total defence for a new era, we must see that the role of business has changed since before. Gone are the state monopolies. It is of the utmost importance that everyone cooperates on an equal footing on emergency preparedness. I would therefore like to support the Centre Party's reservation.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-213	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report Modern and legally secure rules for keeping foreigners in custody. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. Unfortunately, there was a majority in the committee not to modernise the rules, on the grounds that it took a long time from investigation to proposal and that it was in 2014 and 2015 that many asylum seekers came to Sweden. This justification does not hold up, because it is now that we are increasing the number of detention centres. And we can see statistics from the Finnish Immigration Service on how long foreigners were held in custody in 2017. About 2 000 people were detained for less than two weeks. Approximately 2,000 people were detained for between two weeks and three months. 164 people were detained for between three months and five months. 156 people were detained for more than five months. The application of the current provisions has shown that the procedural framework for detention and supervision needs to be adapted in order to take account of the interests of a clear, transparent and legally secure handling of detention and oversight issues by the administrative authorities and the courts. Among other things, there is a need to clarify which authority is responsible for the issue of detention and supervision during the different stages of the migration process, not least in relation to appeals. The legal uncertainties have also been noted with regard to oral hearings, the calculation of time limits for re-examination of the question of detention and the authority which is the opposite of the foreigner in the event of an appeal. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats therefore share the government's view that there is a clear need to amend and improve the rules on detention and supervision in the migration process in order to achieve a modern, clear and legally secure system. We Social Democrats think that the proposals in the bill are well balanced. The aim is to create a clearer regulatory framework and increase legal certainty in cases and cases of detention and supervision. The proposed rules would mean, among other things, that a court should always consider whether a foreigner may be detained for more than two weeks under the Aliens Act. You heard earlier that I listed how many people actually stayed in detention longer than two weeks. That was the majority. According to the regulatory framework that we would like to have, the principle of proportionality would play a decisive role in assessing how long an alien may be detained. It would be clearer which authority is responsible at each stage of the migration process for deciding on detention or supervision, and the individual would have an increased right to speak orally to the managing authorities and the migration courts. As I said earlier, there are ambiguities, so here we need to clarify. A detention order always involves serious interference with personal integrity and the freedom of movement of the individual. The measure can therefore only be used if other, less intervention, measures are sufficient. The time taken into custody by a foreigner should be as short as possible. The fact that this is a matter of detention places high demands on legal certainty and therefore on a clear regulation of the circumstances in which the measure may be taken and on the procedural rules applicable. At the same time, a properly designed migration process requires that the authorities can exercise the necessary control over those entering and staying in the country and have the tools to put the force behind a decision on expulsion. The possibility of taking an alien into custody or placing him or her under supervision on legal and foreseeable grounds is an important part of maintaining an orderly enforcement process. We would certainly have liked it to be made more clear in terms of legal certainty and procedural law, as well as the authorities responsible at which times. We regret that the proposal was not supported by a majority in committee to this end.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-222	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by partly agreeing with what we just heard from the speaker. There is a need to review the legislation. There is a need to make the rules clearer and to make the powers clearer as to which authority should make the decisions. It is about how to ensure that persons who need to be detained are kept in custody and how to ensure that persons who need to be kept under supervision are kept under supervision. In short, it is a question of how to ensure that the people who reside in our country are authorised to do so and do so according to the rules and laws in force in our country. The Swedish Democrats chose to raise a follow-up motion on this bill. Our proposal was not to reject the bill as a whole, for the very reasons I have just mentioned. Parts of the bill are good – these are necessary changes. The bill contains such things as making it clearer, as I said, who should decide on detention. This is something that, among other things, was welcomed by the Migration Courts, who would like to see a clear distinction between their decision-making role and the role of the administration in deciding how to execute decisions. But the problem is that there were also things in this bill that were ill-thought out and bad. From our side, we chose primarily to focus on two parts. One thing we have just heard Carina Ohlsson speak out for, namely with mandatory judicial review. As I have just mentioned, it can be seen in the referees that the courts themselves welcome the fact that they should have a less active role in the actual handling of the execution of decisions taken. But here was a suggestion that the courts very regularly, every two weeks, should take new decisions on the extension of detention. We find that unreasonable. We believe that this is a burden that would be imposed on the courts. It is a confusion of tasks and an administrative process that does not really bring any benefit. We also chose to oppose the proposal to close a pre-trial investigation into a crime where the sentence is expected to be less than six months in prison if the person has an expulsion order against him. We agree with the absurdity of people staying in the country for a long time for minor crime, but we believe that a better solution than to close the investigation is to have an exemption from the proposed enforcement barrier because it is such a low penalty value and instead enable people to participate in further investigations via link or by entering the country for questioning if that is the case. All crimes must be investigated. It is important for our legal certainty, it is important for the victims in our country, and it is important for a holistic approach that we keep an eye on what applies. It is also notable that several consultation bodies questioned what would happen if these people returned to the country. Should the investigation be reopened? There is no automaticity in this, and to bounce back and forth whether or not a preliminary investigation is under way is also in danger of imposing an additional burden. Moreover, the evidence will lose in value the longer the time goes by, and it will be more difficult to pursue an investigation. Extra notable, also highlighted by both referral bodies, ourselves and other debaters on the issue, was the fact that the expulsions did not even have to have gained legal force. The decision that a person should leave the country did not even have to be decided to close a preliminary investigation, which in my world is extremely remarkable. In the previous speech, we were able to hear how important it is to minimise the time spent in detention. This is, of course, something that we fully agree with. The problem is that, of course, what should lead should be that we can quickly execute expulsion decisions or expulsion decisions, not that we are releasing people in our society who are not entitled to reside in the country because of a lack of ability to do so. I also note that in the previous speech it was said that the issue of detention is a matter of detention. However, as the administrative laws in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Växjö, among other things, refer to, a person who has a expulsion or expulsion decision can actually affect his/her own situation when it comes to detention by cooperating with the authorities or simply leaving the country on his/her own initiative. This is not the kind of detention that keeps someone locked up forever, but any possibility of influencing the situation. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. As I mentioned at the outset, we put a follow-up motion on this bill. This follow-up motion included not only proposals to reject parts of the bill but also proposals for what should be developed and taken into account in future legislation, which, as we have said, is necessary and should be put in place as soon as possible. It is about clarity when taking people into custody and when keeping people under supervision. We believe that a basic rule should be that if the identity of persons has not been established, it is also reasonable to have some sort of supervision over them. It does not have to be very advanced or privacy-impairing, nor does it have to be an enormous burden. In the case of persons living within the public asylum reception system or asylum seekers, it may be sufficient, for example, to check in to the accommodation once a day or how it can now be posted. For those who have their own accommodation, we suggest an investigation into the possibility of choosing between either contacting an authority and showing that you are in place and, if preferred, having a anklet that checks that you are on your accommodation, at the same intervals that you would otherwise check in at the public accommodation. The aim is simply to ensure that we know where a person is before he or she has been authorised to reside in our country. Detention should be used as soon as there are risks on a security basis or if a person has chosen to violate the rules of oversight, simply because we have historically seen how many deviate. We cannot afford to allow continued development where people can basically go underground as soon as they come to our country, if they just want to. I would also like briefly to highlight the somewhat ironic aspect of the proposal that we should have more generous rules for children under supervision. In my opinion, it is directly irresponsible to leave children wind by wave when they come to our country. A solution where oversight can mean simply checking in on one's accommodation is neither a violation of privacy nor a particularly serious one. When we look at what has been happening in the country in recent years, where many young people have come here and been left just wind by wave, attracted by criminal gangs, stuck in drug addiction and moving on our streets without any attention, then I find it extremely difficult to justify why to let this continue. It goes without saying to me that minors should be kept under the supervision of someone. If you have your parents here, it is the parents who have that responsibility. If you don't have it, the state should take its responsibility.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-238	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that the arrest rules need to be reviewed. Sweden's use of detention has been repeatedly criticised by UN agencies, the Council of Europe, researchers and several civil society organisations. In particular, criticism has been directed at the excessive and unjustified use of detention instead of other alternatives, such as supervision, and the detention of children. The proposal on which today's debate was based took some steps in the right direction. Above all, we in the Left Party welcomed the fact that it was proposed in the bill that it should be stated that the time in detention should be as short as possible and that the introduction of a proportionality assessment was proposed. Now, however, the bill as a whole has been rejected by the right parties and SD on the grounds that the legislative proposals are based on a seven-year-old investigation that does not reflect today's situation and that a new holistic approach is needed. We have heard arguments in the past as to why some parts really need to be changed. The Left Party does not share the view that the bill as a whole should be rejected, but since we see a great need for improvements to the original bill, we do not support the S and MP reservations either. We choose to abstain from this point and instead highlight the necessary improvements that are needed, whether this is the original proposal or a new review. These are described in reservation 3, which I am also taking the opportunity to ask for. I have mildly said very low expectations that a holistic approach to the issue of detention, as intended by the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, would lead to improvements in the direction that we in the Left Party want to see. Nevertheless, I would like to raise a few points from our follow-up motion, where there should be changes to the arrest legislation. First of all, children suffer from detention – point. This is not a new knowledge. I do not know how many of the Members in this House have been visiting people in detention, but those of us who have been do realize what a difficult and very, very unpleasant place it is to be, not least for children. The Government proposed in its proposal no changes to the rules on detention of children, on the grounds that the regulatory framework is already very restrictive and compatible with international conventions and acts of which Sweden is bound. However, I would like to question that. Sweden has been criticised on several occasions by, among other things, the UN Committee against Torture for placing children in custody. The UNHCR clearly states that children should not be detained as a consequence of their migration. According to the UNHCR, this can never be compatible with the best interests of the child, and they are supported by UNICEF, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child and the UN Special Rapporteur against Torture. Several previous studies show that placing in custody impairs children's psychological and physical well-being and harms their cognitive development. Children in custody are at risk of anxiety and depression and often show signs of post-traumatic stress. A recent report by the Red Cross, which was actually released today and which many of you have probably heard about on the radio, once again shows just that. The Convention on the Rights of the Child and EU law provide that children can only be detained as a last resort. In the report released today, the Red Cross points to serious shortcomings in the legal support for the detention of children in some of the cases they have gone through – that detention is being used despite not all the other possibilities being exhausted – and that the best interests of the child have not been taken into account in an individual way, but only that it is enough to be with the family. There are examples of decisions that have been made on the basis of rules in the Aliens Act that do not involve children at all. There are examples of children who have been first detained as adults and then rewritten in age and remain on the adult assessment. During last year, care was taken of children in twice as many cases as they chose to use supervision. In my opinion, this cannot be regarded as restrictive. When it comes to the impact on the child's mental health, the review also clearly shows that detention of the child is very negative for the child even for a shorter period of time, and the psychological but the child experiences often persist for a long time after the child has been released. The Left Party is critical of the fact that the government has not taken on board the criticism that has been made against Sweden or the knowledge that exists regarding the detention of children. In the light of the fact that the same government has pushed through the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law, it is also strange that it has not acted on the matter. The Red Cross states in the report that a number of things need to be done, but the most important point with regard to legislation is that detention of children, whether in the family or in unaccompanied minors, should not take place. The Left Party fully agrees with this. It is high time to make sure that the law is changed so that children are never detained. The second important point I would like to raise, Mr President, concerns detention as a routine method of forced expulsion. The Red Cross points out in its new report, once again, that detention is often used as a first-hand method without further reflection on whether other options would work and might work better. It is clear that the political debate is also one-sidedly focused on increasing detention places and withdrawing rights and support for asylum seekers with expulsion decisions. The amendment introduced in LMA is one such example. Reimbursement and housing have not led to an increase in return, but to homelessness and vulnerability to the individual and difficult work for the authorities. It is simply very difficult to work with returnees when you do not know which gate or park bench people are staying on. Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of good knowledge about what can actually support and facilitate the return of people with expulsion decisions, what works in reality for both the people to be expelled and for society at large. The answer is no more lock-in, cancellation, homelessness or shorter deadlines for leaving the country. Let's listen to the Red Cross. They have extensive experience of working with returnees. This applies both from the country where you have applied for asylum and the country where you are going to return. It is a question of completely different and thorough methods. The new report highlights some of the knowledge that exists about return work, namely that participation, predictability, legal advice, access to health care and education and social rights in the meantime increase the conditions and opportunities for people to return. Financial assistance for return and good planning of what happens when you arrive are further success factors. Detention is the opposite in many respects. Like the Red Cross, we in the Left Party want to see an increased use of alternatives to detention, one of which can be monitoring and also the development of other methods that can then be evaluated. It is important that alternatives to detention do not become alternative forms of detention, as it often sounds in the debate, but a completely different way of working, one that works, one that is rooted in reality and shows respect for human rights and children's rights. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-256	Mr President, I would like to The attitude of the Moderates in this debate and on this issue is to call for a rejection of the government proposal. There are several reasons. The first reason is that the bill is based on a seven-year-old investigation. The first idea when you read the bill is to ask yourself if the government has once again sat with its arms crossed. A lot has happened in the last seven years. There has been a refugee crisis in which some 164 000 asylum seekers applied to Sweden for a year. The years before, there was also a high pressure on asylum seekers with over 100 000 asylum seekers. We see that there is an increased need for a legally secure return procedure. When the authorities are fallen in hand and the police are on their knees, when individuals who have been refused their asylum application and have to return to their home country do not do so voluntarily but choose not to cooperate with Swedish authorities, the risk is that Swedish authorities will not do their part. Confidence in Swedish migration policy is reduced among the general public and within authorities, i.e. employees. The risk is that a shadow society will be created with social vulnerability and undeclared work. People are being exploited. We Moderates believe that a yes should be a yes and a no should be a no. The second reason why we Moderates are calling for rejection of the bill is that we want a legally secure return and, furthermore, the need for more detention places. More detention centres are needed simply because there are too few detention centres today in Sweden, Mr President. There are about 350 detention centres. The moderate group in the Social Security Committee visited the border police at Arlanda. They answered a straight and simple question: How many detention places are needed? The answer was, as many as possible. This meeting took place last week. The investigator who makes the decisions told us that there were three detention places for the benefit of the coming weekend. It is therefore about Sweden's international airport in our capital city. This means that if four people need to be placed that weekend, the Migration Agency must release a detention warrant that has an expulsion order. The person being released may not have committed a crime, but the person to be detained has committed a crime. Then there is a priority. This means that the police officers who are in our radio cars and who do internal foreign control have driven one person to detention, and after a few days encounter the person in the open when he again commits a crime will lose confidence. Their efforts will be in vain. Let me take my point of departure in reality. The northernmost repository in Sweden is located in Gävle. This means that if the police in Haparanda do internal foreigner control, and they conclude that a person does not have the right to stay in Sweden, it is 85 mil easy way to Gävle. It's not certain there's room on that hold. So it's a ten-hour drive. When the radio car is driving back and forth, it is a full day that goes to waste. I'm from Stockholm, but I understand my northern friends in my party that there is a shortage of police officers in Norrland, especially in Haparanda. The third reason why we want to call for a rejection of the bill is that a preliminary investigation may be closed if the crime results in less than six months in prison. Let's look at the crimes that lead to less than six months in prison. It is theft, assault and sexual abuse that are not considered rape. These are crimes of a serious nature. I can understand the idea that for a person who is not allowed to stay in Sweden, and who has stolen a cracker chocolate in the Press Office, a whole court case and the whole machine should not be started. Let's make it easy; the person can leave Sweden. But then there are assaults, thefts and sexual assaults that are not considered rape. Forgive me, but there are both good and less good prosecutors even in the District Attorney's Office. What do we do with a lazy prosecutor sitting with the big piles? That's what our prosecutors look like. What will that person do if you can easily get rid of an errand? Well, you shut down the preliminary investigation and expel the person. No, Madam President, the position of the Moderates is that the bill is based on seven-year-old data. We Moderates are calling for a holistic approach that takes precedence in everything from return and legal detention to the prosecution and punishment of people who commit crimes. Crime should lead to consequences.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-269	Madam President, I would like A yes is a yes and a no is a no. It is my firm belief that trust and legitimacy for a legally secure asylum law and our regulated migration policy rest on the fact that there must be a definite difference in and consequence of having a yes or a no. Almost ten years ago, the then alliance government commissioned a special investigator to review the rules on detention in the Aliens Act. This consultation was discussed in 2011, and since then, as we all know, a lot has happened. I do not think it is an exaggeration to claim that we have had a development that few, if any, could have imagined. I believe that the legislation that we in this House are to decide on should be de facto debased in the reality that prevails, and that is not the case with this proposal. For this reason, we Christian Democrats put forward a motion to reject it. Then a majority has been formed in committee to reject the proposal, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats want a migration policy that goes hand in hand with integration policy. Our aim now to advocate a tight migration policy is to put integration in order and where the goal should be to make room for someone else, not less. For us to be generous as a country, we must give protection to those who really need it and, at the same time, ensure that those who have received a 'no' leave the country. To depart or go underground is to expose oneself to a personal risk but also to facilitate the development of parallel societies. We know that the Migration Agency has pointed out that fewer and fewer people return voluntarily, and then detention is a way of ensuring that a person is available so that expulsion decisions can be enforced. According to the report, 20 000 – 50 000 people are currently residing in Sweden without a permit. That group of people is increasing, and it is for a variety of reasons both inappropriate and unacceptable. The number of detention centres has increased by 40 per cent in 2016 – 2017. And we know that the occupancy rate at the end of 2017 was 99 percent, i.e. that detention places are needed and need to be increased. We Christian Democrats have therefore allocated funds to increase the capacity of detention centres over the next three-year period. I would also like to point out here that we Christian Democrats see an alternative to detention places alone. In the negotiations on new anti-terrorism measures, which took place in spring 2017, one of the priority issues for us Christian Democrats, which also won in support of the negotiations, was to investigate electronic surveillance in expulsion decisions. The Christian Democrats believe that an electronic anklet should be used as an alternative to arrest. People with anklets can then prepare their journey home. And should a deviation occur, it is immediately discovered, either by the person taking off the anklet or by digressing from the geographical area in which he or she is allowed to stay. Madam President, I would like We share the view that Sweden needs modern and legally secure rules to keep foreigners in custody. That's the name of the bill. But there is a firm need for policy to take a holistic approach to this issue of migration. We believe that this is best done by setting up a broad parliamentary inquiry where all parties in the Swedish Parliament are invited to participate. There, of course, the issue of return will be an important part of whether our ambition is to be able to develop a long-term sustainable and legally secure migration policy. In such a work, the issue of detention will be included, and then it is quite obvious that the experience of the last three years, both the experiences of Sweden and the EU, should be included in the work, not thought goods from seven years back in time. The Swedish National Audit Office has previously criticised governments for presenting proposals with insufficient preparation and impact assessment in the area of migration. Unfortunately, the current legislative proposal presented here is no exception. We therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-279	Madam President, I would like The report deals with the issue of detention, the issue of migration and asylum seekers to Sweden. There we know that there has been an incredible change over the last ten years, I would say. The number of asylum seekers has varied greatly. It has been over 160 000 some years and nearly 20 000 other years. The handling of the cases by the Finnish Immigration Service has also changed. The reason for requesting asylum in Sweden has also changed. What else has changed? Well, of course, society's view and handling of asylum seekers. With this in mind, I and the Center Party would like to agree that the basis of the detention investigation is an outdated and too old reality. The investigation was launched in 2009 – although it has received additional directives in the meantime – and is not anchored in today's reality among politicians, authorities and the public. The referral procedure also took place seven years ago. We also know that the municipalities are dealing with the issue of asylum and migration in a completely different way today than they did when the investigation was set up. In short, Madam President, the investigation is out of date and not up-to-date with today's reality. That the question of detention is incredibly important is something I would like to stress, because that is what I and the Center Party mean. However, Madam President, I think that these words from me are sufficient as to why the Center Party and I can quite rightly support the proposal of the majority of the committee.
i-QyFPwTWgTpBC5Fuugmx735	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report 12 on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the refusal of sickness and activity benefits, and I would like to ask for the Swedish Democrats' reservation, No 1. The starting point of the Swedish Democrats is that those who are ill should get the best possible rehabilitation and basic financial security. Those who have the opportunity to get well should have the best possible conditions and incentives to return to work. Therefore, we look with deep concern at the developments that have taken place in health insurance in recent mandates and how it has affected and affected already vulnerable people. The result of the Swedish National Audit Office's report is worrying reading, which testifies to how the current government's management of health insurance has led to a historically low number of allowances for sickness and activity benefits as well as non-tests of people's rights to these benefits. The rejection of the application for sickness benefit in 2017 was over 80 per cent for women and about 76 per cent for men. The very harsh assessments and the strict regulatory framework for sickness benefit have led to people being placed in an extremely vulnerable situation and, in my opinion, the government of the last parliamentary term has taken a far too tough line against some of the most vulnerable in society. There are countless stories of human destiny, which I am increasingly trying to share. It is about people with cancer who are insured or that someone with a herniated disc who has been assessed as 100 per cent unworkable is assessed as 100 per cent work for by the Social Insurance Agency and is not granted sickness benefit. Let me quote someone who has been personally affected: a person is weak and ill, and security is suddenly torn away, and the whole world's picture changes. It's like you fall handless and fear paralyzes you. In the vast majority, the shock and fear create an even worse feeling – sometimes there are several diagnoses – which greatly prolongs the rehabilitation period. In this situation, there is no strength or ability to understand the complicated regulations of health insurance or which laws apply. ..................................................... I think this is telling how many people are experiencing their situation today. Of course, it is not an easy assessment, and of course the aim must be for people to get the rehabilitation and assistance they need with the aim of returning to work. However, there must be a proper review of the large number of rejections that are being made today. Something's not right. It is something that does not work as it should when so many people feel that they do not get a legal and fair assessment but instead are unfairly treated, fall between the chairs and in the worst case are secured. There were, of course, major shortcomings in the earlier time limit in the sickness allowance, and we will not work for its reintroduction in its then form. However, we believe that the measures from the current government that had to be implemented in the place of the longer deadline have largely failed and that the measures that have been taken have not been sufficient, as the report from the Swedish National Audit Office shows. This has meant, among other things, that tests on entitlement to sickness and activity benefit have not been carried out to a sufficient extent. We believe that at the same time there may be large individual differences, and before the government has completed its ongoing review of sickness benefit, it is difficult to assess whether a statutory time limit for the examination of sickness benefit is the best way to go. Until this review is complete, the Government needs to clarify the assignment to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency so that those in need of a review of the right to sickness and activity benefit receive such a review, adapted to the individual's needs. However, let me point out that the main problem with regard to the assessment of sickness benefit and activity benefit is not whether or not you get a trial, but that the majority of the trials lead to rejection. As I said, about 80 per cent of women and 76 per cent of men were rejected in 2017. In 2013, the figure was around 23 per cent. However, the fact that in many cases people's entitlement to sickness and activity benefits is not even examined is, of course, unacceptable. As the Swedish National Audit Office also points out, there is a large gap between the demands a person should meet in order to receive compensation and his actual opportunities to return to work. As a result, people fall into this gap. One of the most common reasons for re-granting, above all, activity compensation, but also sickness benefit, are psychiatric diagnoses. Here we know, based on another review from the Swedish National Audit Office that we will have reason to return to later, that there are major shortcomings in the treatment and assessment of those with mental illness. Mental illness is today one of the most common causes of sick leave. Emergency measures must be taken to reduce the gap people fall into. One way to go is to introduce reliefs in the regulatory framework and a less permanent form of sickness benefit, where the requirements for receiving benefits are not as high as they are regularly re-evaluated and this allowance is linked to health care and rehabilitation interventions. In the past, there was a more temporary form of sickness benefit, and we think that we should review the possibility of introducing something similar again so that the step towards receiving sickness benefit is not as high and fewer people are insured. Of course, the possibility of a permanent form of sickness benefit for those with chronic illness or disability should remain. Furthermore, the Swedish Democrats, like the Swedish National Audit Office, find that there may be benefits in that the process of transition between sickness benefit and sickness benefit or activity benefit is more separated. We believe that in view of the negative consequences for administrators and the insured person identified by the Swedish National Audit Office, there should be an interest in the Government in any case to investigate the possibility of a more separate process regarding the examination of sickness benefit and activity compensation.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-301	Madam President, I would like This is an interesting and important report, because it deals with those people who are most in need of community support and help. If you are ill, you need help and opportunities to get back to work, but if you cannot work, you must of course get the right compensation. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the authorities responsible for providing these people with the right support and assistance do not. First of all, it is about the difference between sickness benefit and sickness benefit and activity benefit. If you have sickness benefit you are supposed to be able to return to work soon, but if you have sickness benefit or activity benefit, it is about a longer absence from work because you are not fit for work. Anyone who is refused sickness benefit or activity benefit will have a worse financial situation and continue to have a worse health condition. We have just heard that it is primarily those with mental disorders and diagnoses who suffer from poor health. We know today that the most common health problems are psychological diagnoses. That's where the help needs to come quickly. There is a difference between sickness benefit and activity benefit. If you receive sickness benefit, you are over 30 years old, but if you receive activity benefit, you are between 19 and 29 years old, i.e. young people. I'll get back to the differences a little lower in the front. For us center parties, it is incredibly important that measures are introduced early in the period of sick leave, i.e. during the time that sickness benefit is given. Today, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has a clear coordination responsibility to contribute to these early efforts. This means helping and supporting people early so that they can get back to work. The task of Försäkringskassan is to have contact with the sick person, with the employer and with the care and also to make sure that you work together. We know that the longer the sick leave lasts, the harder it is to get back to work. This means that early intervention is incredibly important. One proposal that we center parties have to allow for a review of return when people are on sick leave is that they get a flexible return to work and that they can come back to work at the rate they want and then report back to the Social Insurance Agency. This is one way of preventing long-term sick leave, because such sick leave means that sickness benefit or activity benefit may be needed. In order to eliminate the long sick leave, we in the Center Party want the border to be reintroduced, because it was a clear step when sickness benefit and activity benefit had to be tested. We also want the deadlines that exist in the rehabilitation chain to be respected, for this allows contact with the person to be made at different times to find out what can be helped and support the person with in order to return to work. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which we are considering today, proposes a legal deadline for examining sickness benefit and activity compensation. This is missing today, and that is why there are problems. The important thing now is to distinguish between sickness benefit – the sick leave process – and the process of receiving sickness benefit or activity benefit. So these are two very different things, as I have said. During the time of the alliance government, the distant border was removed. It was a limit when to check and have contact with the sick person to see if the person could get back to work or not. It was then given an absolute opportunity to enable the person to receive the sickness or activity benefit to which he or she was entitled. But the Social Democratic Government has removed the far limit. This means that you have instead given Försäkringskassan the right to test whether the person should go back to work t, but it is not legally established. That's the difference. The Social Insurance Agency is failing to follow up on this, and that is a problem. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends, therefore, that people be involved in a new process. This is all about the right to sickness and activity benefits, and this is important. Activity compensation applies, as I said, to young people. It is children who have extended schooling due to illness, injury or disability and who are thought not to be able to work full-time. It is called activity compensation for it to be an activity where you support them to get into the professional and working life after school. This applies to all forms of employment, i.e. subsidised jobs, security contracts, new start-ups and sheltered jobs, but also to entering the regular labour market. The Swedish Public Employment Service and Försäkringskassan are commissioned to work together, but this is a flaw, as the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out. Several others have also shown this, including the Social Security Inspection. In its report, the inspection proposes activity compensation until the age of thirty– What happens next? that the government should take the initiative to increase the range of preparatory activities so that young people can enter the labour market. Looking in the first step at work-oriented rehabilitation and workplace-related activities and also studies means exactly what the Swedish National Audit Office points out: a new process for the right to this form of compensation. This is important. But what happens if you don't get activity compensation and help during that time? What happens when you turn 30? Well, then you go on to sick pay. We know that this will result in a worse economy and also worse health, and that is not fair. The Social Democratic Government is now proposing a rejection of the Swedish National Audit Office's two proposals, a new process for the examination of sickness and activity benefits and a legal deadline for review. We believe that something needs to be done now, because this applies to people who need help now. We must be clear on this point. That is why, Madam President, I am calling for the committee's proposal to be rejected and for my reservation to be approved.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-315	Madam President, I would like In the run-up to this debate, many who are subject to the deterioration of health insurance rules have heard from us in committee. I was going to bring up some of these cases. For example, we have a mother of two, Lena, who has been in touch. She has worked since she was in ninth grade, studied at the university and in periods had several jobs at the same time. A number of years ago she began to experience health problems, and for several years her health has deteriorated year by year. She has had fibromyalgia, disc hernia, pupil disorders, a nerve damage to the neck, a brain tumor and further diagnoses. She has done five work trials, which have made her worse every time. Two hours every three days she was able to participate in the last work trial. Last year her doctor wanted to write her off completely because she is too sick to work. Just before Christmas, Försäkringskassan rejected the request. The whole family was pulled into the dark during the Christmas holidays," says Lena, when she had to hunt health centres, doctors and others to submit medical supplements and in various ways try to talk to Försäkringskassan. Marie had severe fatigue syndrome a number of years ago. A specialist in psychiatry gave his opinion and said that the condition was permanent and would not improve. Neither drugs nor conversational therapy helped. From 2012 to 2017, Marie received sickness benefit. But suddenly she was denied compensation last autumn and was asked to stand as an active job seeker. Marie can't because she can't work. She is therefore living today on support for living. Her health has deteriorated after the Social Insurance Agency has withdrawn her allowance. She is no longer able to meet her grandchildren and has difficulty getting enough money to feed her whole month. She has great anxiety about Christmas because she does not want to disappoint her grandchildren. The Social Insurance Agency refers her to seeking a job that does not require either concentration, attention or memory. I think a lot of people with me are wondering what kind of job it is. A friend of mine has had to move back home with her mother to support her. The mother is very ill and would need individually adapted work training and support in order to get back into the labour market, something she does not get. She has received four medical certificates stating that she lacks work capacity plus supplements and a number of opinions from doctors. None of this has been enough. A rejection from Försäkringskassan has also been received. They say that she should take work without demands and that does not require concentration. Here, too, one might ask what kind of work it is. When the mother came to Arbetsförmedlingen, the agency's subcontractor sent her home and told her that she is too sick to participate. This means that she does not receive help from either the Employment Service or the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. She has fallen between the chairs, which means that her two daughters have now moved back home to their mother, and they have finished their college studies to work to support the parent. Now they are trying to raise money to run a case against Försäkringskassan. My question is, does the government think that the social contract should look like this in 2018? Is this what health insurance should look like? The bourgeois government deteriorated health insurance considerably in 2008. To finance its tax cuts, the then government took the money that we wage earners had previously paid in for insurance premiums for our own security, i.e. through social security contributions. So this money was used for tax cuts for multimillionaires. I mean it's a scandal. What Sweden's employees are now doing is financing tax cuts for better workers, while our own health insurance is beaten to pieces. What we in the Left Party cannot understand is why a Social Democratic government did not correct this after the change of power in 2014. The insurance systems we have in Sweden in the event of illness and unemployment are income-related. We build them up through our own efforts. Many people who today are no longer able to use the damaged health insurance have thus worked hard on the labour market in the belief that there is a safe health insurance if ever needed. By destroying this security in health insurance, I believe that both bourgeois and social democratic governments are crushing the line of work. Instead, those who can afford and rarely get sick risk taking out their own private health insurance policies, while everyone else with heavier jobs becomes broke and disappears from the labour force. It is a very bad and old-fashioned way of solving this type of problem. It increases economic inequality and overwhelms the risk of disease on the individual, even though in most cases it is also others who bear the blame. It can be the employer and his poor work environment, it can be pressured schedules in care and medical care because of municipal politicians' cheapness, and it can be a sudden life-threatening diagnosis that no one of course wants. The number of newly granted sickness benefits decreased dramatically after 2008 and is currently at historically low levels. But nothing indicates that the number of sick people has decreased. They're just very poor now, because they don't get any compensation. Sweden currently has the OECD's toughest rules for providing people with sick pay. What has been achieved by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report may seem obvious to many. But I have to say that in some parts I saw that it was more serious than even I thought. And the Swedish National Audit Office is unusually sharp in its statements. The first point made by the Swedish National Audit Office is that in the event of denied compensation there is a clear deterioration in a person's income. Those who were at the limit of receiving compensation lost an average of $100,000 per year in the following years because they were denied compensation. The loss is therefore not compensated by income from work or other compensation schemes. The few who are forced into work, however, have income on which to make a living. On the other hand, those receiving benefits are more likely to remain in the labour force. The second point made by the Swedish National Audit Office is: There are very negative health effects of being denied compensation. There is even a clear link between the refusal of sickness benefit and an increase in the number of persons admitted with serious mental illness. The Swedish National Audit Office then makes an unusual mark in its report. It is blackly stated that it seems that the regulatory framework is not adapted to those who are denied the opportunity to make a living in the labour market. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore proposes that the conditions for entitlement to sickness and activity benefits should be reviewed in order to facilitate the granting of benefits. A number of regulatory changes need to be implemented. The ability to work must be assessed in a serious way. The Government cannot decide in advance how many approvals and rejections are to be given in the way that is happening today by a directive to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. This must be determined by reality. An insured person should be tested against actual work, not against super adapted completely undemanding jobs that the Social Insurance Office fantasizes about exist out there. Today, the whole of the labour market, which is the criterion, includes a person being tested against all kinds of fictitious wage and salary contributions and so on. Even Försäkringskassan itself believes that today's rules hit individuals with very limited opportunities to make a living in the labour market unreasonably hard. It is believed that the concept of labour market needs to be relaxed, more account taken of the de facto existence of the job and the actual reduction of the labour force is taken into account. The starting point also needs to be that individuals have different conditions and different possibilities for conversion. It goes without saying to me that the assessment must be adapted to whether the person is 25 years old or 60 years old. It is necessary to take into account training, place of residence, previous activities and other types of individual reasons. Today, therefore, it is forbidden to take this into account. This makes Försäkringskassan's assessments completely misadjusted. This, too, is something the Authority itself agrees with. A person who has a multi-annual but not necessarily lifelong disability must also be able to receive sickness benefit. The root of the problem is, among other things, a hard and pressured labour market. I believe that there is a need for better interaction between the work environment and the Social Insurance Agency around those who have reduced working capacity. The follow-up of doctors and the improvement of individual rehabilitation efforts aimed at facilitating the return to previous, similar or adapted work of the same employer – or, alternatively, those which make it possible to find work through special measures for the unemployed who have reduced working capacity – are absolutely necessary and crucial. Enhanced preventive and systematic work environment management is also required, including high-quality occupational health care aimed at a sustainable working life. All of this is crucial to reducing the income gap between those affected by illness and ill health, often higher in their ages, and those who do not. Madam President, I would like Finally, is it not typical that those – especially women, but also men – who have actually built up and financed health care in the surrounding area are now forced to pray and beg with an administrator at Försäkringskassan, are thrown back and forth between doctors and Arbetsförmedlingen and are forced to live on loved ones and take loans that they are rarely able to pay back, while no one places demands on the multimillionaires who ultimately received the money through major tax cuts? I believe that it is not enough for the government to bury this issue in various individual investigations and memos. We know what needs to be done. It will not be changed in six months' time or the next term of office, but it needs to be changed now. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be approved.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-333	Madam President, I would like It was incredibly interesting to listen to your speech, Nooshi. You raised this with the fact that sickness benefit was not granted to the extent required today. Then you also said that the Alliance government took away the money you had set aside for your health insurance. You also meant that we from the Alliance government had instead used the money to give more money to those who worked and were rich. That's not true. That is why I wonder: what has the Left Party done during the time you have supported the Social Democratic Government to help the Social Insurance Agency get more money and make better decisions than it is doing today, as Mr Nooshi said? We also know that the rehabilitation chain introduced by the Alliance Government was incredibly good. During the years in which the Alliance Government ruled Sweden, we each year allocated more money to Försäkringskassan in order to work with the sick people and support them for a return to work and for rehabilitation. Why have you from the Left Party not done more during your time as a support party for the Social Democrats?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question from Solveig Zander! What is Solveig Zanders's problem is that, for those who have followed this debate, all bourgeois parties lack credibility altogether. It is you who have created this health insurance, which is the hardest in the entire OECD. One can, of course, criticise the current government, and Mr Zander heard that I did, because this has not been changed. What Solveig Zander says is that she wants to restore the precipice to the sick. She doesn't want to raise any compensation levels. We know that, because we have read the budgets of the Center Party where you, above all, lower taxes for the absolutely richest. What happened during Solveig Zanders's time was that you reduced the contributions to health insurance. You did not reduce the employer's contribution, but you simply reduced the contribution, that is to say, what employees refrain from paying into their health insurance. Instead, you have increased the general salary levy that goes straight into the treasury, and you used it to lower taxes for the absolutely richest in Sweden. If they're working or not, I can't say. It was above all different types of wealth taxes that Solveig Zander was involved in sinking. You reduced taxes for those who own much, not for those who work. There has been a transfer from joint health insurance to those who have large fortunes in Sweden. I believe that this is a bad distribution policy. The big problem today is that health insurance is underfunded. We need to ensure that health insurance contributions are raised to the level they had before the bourgeois alliance broke up health insurance. We will work for that.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-342	Madam President, I would like Compensation levels do not make people healthy, but provide an opportunity to work to the extent that you can and can. That's what matters to people. That's why the rehabilitation chain was incredibly important. People were continuously followed up during the period of sick leave. It is important to follow this now too. The rehabilitation chain also included the far border. Today, long sick leave is increasing. The Swedish National Audit Office has shown that the problem is that there is no clearly regulated time for contacting the person and deciding whether the person should receive help and support when returning to work or whether the person should receive sickness and activity benefit. I find it incredibly difficult to understand why one opposes the far limit. It's important. Thanks to the rehabilitation chain, which was introduced during the time of the alliance government, Sweden does not have the hardest sick leave rules in Europe. On the contrary, there are much tougher rules and shorter deadlines in other countries. This is important to note. I ask the question again: why have you from the Left Party not done more during your time with the Social Democrats? Why do you stand here agitating against it when you have had great opportunities to influence it? It's very strange to me.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-346	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, fascinated that Solveig Zander continues to say that she wants to introduce the precipice and that she wants to secure more people. She here proudly tells us how they have changed health insurance in a way that makes us have the toughest rules in the OECD, according to a government investigation that you set up yourself. Then Solveig Zander complains that the Left Party has not changed what you have created. How, in one's wildest imagination, can one think it's a reasonable question? I suppose it's your fault we have this situation. Then I fully agree – and I say this in my speech – that there must now be a change. It began with the bourgeois alliance which completely broke this, but the present government has not succeeded in making an improvement in a satisfactory way. I believe that the social contract is broken because health insurance is not better financed, thanks to the bourgeois alliance, and because we do not have milder and more adapted rules for the compensation of those people who cannot work. For those who listen to this debate, it is quite obvious that all bourgeois parties – including, of course, the Swedish Democrats – are completely lacking in credibility on this issue. They want to secure even more people and worsen even more. They do not want to use social security contributions for our joint health insurance, but they want to continue to use it for tax cuts for people with large wealth. It is a poor distribution policy. We have put great pressure on the government to change these rules. We have partly succeeded in removing some directives from the Social Insurance Agency, which is the major problem. We want to continue working to improve health insurance.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-351	Madam President, I would like For us social democrats, it is important to have safe health insurance and a well-functioning safety net that captures those who have the bad luck of getting sick. Those who are ill and unable to work should be entitled to rapid rehabilitation to get back to work and financial security during the time it takes. Those who are permanently ill and unable to work should have a secure financial situation, not a life with a constant lump in the stomach for how life should go together. Security is an obvious part of the Swedish model. Unfortunately, many people today do not see our health insurance as safe and do not see insurance as predictable. Too many do not understand what is happening and how it will help them to get back to work. That is unacceptable. That is why we need to make changes for safe and well-functioning health insurance. The Social Democrats want to raise the ceiling of health insurance so that more people can get 80% of their income, strengthen rehabilitation and have a well-functioning occupational health care. It must be clear that the individual can rely on the system and receive the support to which he is entitled. The government has taken steps in this direction during its term of office. The Social-Democrat-led government has abolished the lower time limit in health insurance, increased the ceiling for sickness benefit to 8 basic amounts, increased sickness benefit, both the income-related compensation and the guarantee scheme, and increased the housing allowance for those who have sickness benefit. From 1 July this year, a clarification of employers' rehabilitation responsibilities has been introduced, which means that the employer is obliged to draw up a plan for the return to work of workers who have been absent due to illness for more than 30 days. Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen have been given a common zero tolerance task, which means that the transition between authorities should work without anyone ending up between the chairs. Försäkringskassan has received a goal in the regulation letter, which means that the authorities will work to ensure that more young people with activity compensation will have their rehabilitation needs mapped out in collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen. Due to the historically low sickness benefit levels, a review has started within the Government Office. The review is based on an in-depth analysis of the reasons for the current levels of new grant and refusal rates in sickness and activity benefits. The review shall analyse the regulatory framework for sickness benefit in order to ensure that the distinction between long-term sick leave continuing with sickness benefit and those receiving sickness benefit instead is appropriate. It shall also analyse any obstacles to the participation of the person who has sickness benefit in activities or to try to return to work and analyse the need for additional measures in order to reduce the number of long illness cases. This review will soon be completed. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report on denied sickness and activity benefits shows a number of things. The report points to the fact that the historically low grant of sickness benefit is not due to changes in the health or working capacity of the people, but rather to the application of the regulations of the Social Insurance Agency. Even more, the historically low grant of sickness benefit is due to the tightening of the regulatory framework implemented in 2008. The Swedish National Audit Office, which has examined whether the benefits have been over- or under-utilised, has concluded that there is nothing to suggest other than that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's assessments are correct based on current regulations. Unfortunately, it also notes that, among those who have been denied sickness benefit, there are a number who are not able to work and who suffer severe financial damage from the loss of benefits. The report also points out that it is those furthest from the labour market who are most affected. These conclusions strengthen our view that we need to make changes for a safe and well-functioning health insurance. Madam President, I would like In favour of the ongoing review and the proposals for change which will inevitably come from it, I call for the committee's proposals to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-RAC4aZBSxpHw4C8fmTCzjU	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Björn Petersson! As I have said and others have said, 70 – 80% of those applying for sickness benefit are denied today. People are insured even though the doctor has judged them to be 100 percent not able to work. Does Björn Petersson really think it is a fair and humane health insurance? The gap between the very strict, rigid rules that are set up to be granted sickness benefit and to be able to take a job on the labour market is very large. In that gap are the people who fall between the chairs, as you usually put it, and are secured. It hits people hard. I believe that, when the Social Democratic Government took office, many people had expectations that it would be a more humane health insurance, but that has not been the case. Although the cut-off date was removed, it is rather the case that people are secured even earlier than when it existed. Very many people are insured today at day 180 in the rehabilitation chain. The later time limit was at day 914. I don't want the far edge of the Alliance back. I want to be clear about that. But the government has managed to remove it very badly. As the Swedish National Audit Office says, far too few people get their case tried at all, and when they get it, eight out of ten get rejected. What do Björn Petersson and the Social Democrats intend to do to get improvements in this area for sick people?
i-FAnv1zs6LKZCYc8nnFzHjX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the questions! The reason why so many people are denied sickness benefit has to do with the requirement to be granted it. The whole labour market should be tested. It includes fictitious find-and-support jobs without any requirement to be able to take a regular job or even that those jobs even exist. It is clear that when the regulations look like that, many will be denied. We heard here earlier Nooshi Dadgostar tell us about jobs that do not require that you have memory or concentration possibilities. There are no such jobs. If people are tried against them, it is clear that many are denied compensation. It is by no means an expression of human health insurance. It is definitely not an expression of a social democratic insurance system. A question was asked as to why the previous – the present – government has not changed this from what was before. It is simply because the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats have had a majority in this House. It hasn't been possible. It is an expression of the will of this House, certainly not of the Social Democratic will. What do we intend to do? If we had a government left and it had not been deposed, there would have been proposals that we could now have implemented. Now we have to wait until we have a new government that can bring forward the results of the review from the department so that we can get to grips with it.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-370	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats got through removing the longer deadline. But what else have you done to improve the health insurance? Have you suggested anything? The social democrats today, for example, reject the proposal that I and some other other person have to relax the regulatory framework for the granting of sickness benefit. There it is you who say no to our proposals. Why are you doing this? It would be extremely good if we were to examine whether it would be possible to relax the regulatory framework and introduce a less permanent track for sickness benefit, where there are more regular re-evaluations of work capacity so that the requirements for receiving sickness benefit are not so rigid and high. Why do you say no to that? Why have you not proposed improvements? Not everything is about a time limit or a time limit. It is also about improving the quality of the entire rehabilitation chain from day one onwards. What have you done there that you have not got through, says Björn? What I specifically want answers to is: why are you today saying no to our proposal to introduce a less permanent track for sickness benefit? Is that something that the Social Democrats can nevertheless consider in the review that is now being carried out?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-375	Madam President, I would like The removal of the time limit was passed. Clearly, it is good that workers are no longer covered. It is unfortunate that the tests for sickness benefit that should have been carried out immediately thereafter were not carried out. The government describes in the report that they are now being made to a greater extent. We share its assessment. It is clear that people should be tested for sickness benefit. However, when it is easier to receive sickness benefit than sickness benefit, it is a natural consequence that more people are left on long-term sick leave with sickness benefit than are transferred to sickness benefit. Why are we today saying no to the Swedish Democrats' reservation? We are doing this in favour of the review and the proposals that we are absolutely convinced of will be there. These proposals are in line with what the Swedish National Audit Office has so clearly stated. The health insurance we have and the conditions of the sickness benefit are not in line with the purpose. We think we can see that. We expect that there will also be proposals to resolve it in the current review. Will this review show what Mrs Julia is now saying – that it should be easier to receive sickness benefit? Yes, I'm convinced of that. And yes, we will support it. That is my absolute conviction and my will. It must be that a person who is permanently ill has financial security and does not have to walk with a lump in his stomach and worry about how to cope with everyday life.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-379	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Petersson, for your speech. I'm a little surprised. I have never heard Annika Strandhäll so clearly point out that the regulations are wrong, but I am extremely pleased that there has now been a change within the Social Democrats and, hopefully, the government parties. The Social Democrats talked a lot about security in the electoral movement, and I am also in favour of security. I therefore wonder how Björn Petersson views the security of health insurance. I have brought with me a text from IF Metall, which has pushed the demand that we should have the right to be ill until we become healthy as their main issue. One might think that it is a rather modest demand to make on a Social Democratic government. As far as I am aware – and I have spoken and negotiated with the government throughout the term of office – the government has not shown signs that it thinks the regulatory framework is too tight but has defended it instead. Six out of ten IF Metals are concerned that they will not cope with long-term illness. I would like to ask Björn Petersson a question: Does he think that they are justified for this concern or not? The Government has also made demands – a production requirement – on Försäkringskassan to not grant more than 18,000 new sickness benefits per year. Does Björn Petersson think that this helps to improve the safety of health insurance? Or is it a requirement that cannot be made because people who are ill must be assessed individually and according to reality and not according to a production requirement from the Government Office?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-383	Madam President, Nooshi Dadgostar. As a social democrat, security is important to me – extremely important. You ask me if IF Metall's members are justified by the concerns they express. I think the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that there is reason for this concern and that we have work to do here. And we have to do that. It is unreasonable and not at all in line with the social contract, as Nooshi Dadgostar put it, that workers should have to be worried about what happens if they hurt themselves at work or fall ill. It is completely unreasonable and not at all in line with the model of society that our party stands for. There is a great deal of work to be done here, and I hope that we can do so during the term of office that is to come. Nooshi Dadgostar talks about production requirements for Försäkringskassan. Setting reasonable social goals is one thing. Production goals are not an expression that I think is appropriate but that Nooshi chooses to use. But no, that's not how our insurance system should be handled in the individual case. Each individual must be tested on the basis of his/her circumstances and his/her location. I think it is reasonable to have an objective for what our insurance system should be dimensioned for as a social objective. But it must not be in the hands of the individual case - never. That is my opinion.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Björn Petersson! I understand then that demands are made for authorities that should not be the governing body for the operation. For me, it's a pretty strange thing. Should we apply this to all the requirements and directives that are sent to authorities – that they should not be governing? Is that how I'm supposed to perceive Björn Petersson? Of course, I appreciate it in this case, but in other cases it may be negative. It would be good if Björn Petersson could clarify whether the government believes that directives to authorities should not be governing. Under the bourgeois alliance, what I was talking about from the pulpit was done, namely reduced health insurance contributions in social security contributions. Instead, employees' money was used to lower taxes. How does Björn Petersson view this? Do we need to change the level of the health insurance contribution so that it becomes higher and we can thus fund a good, solidarity-based health insurance for all Swedish workers? Or are there just fine words in this House, but when you get to the budget you cannot really do what you promised? How do the Social Democrats and the government view this? Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Social Democrats have changed their minds on this point and want more changes in the regulatory framework, which is by far the hardest thing in the OECD. I assume that it is the hard work of the Left Party that has led to the Social Democrats now changing their attitude, for it is certainly not the bourgeois parties that have pushed the issue.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-391	Madam President, I would like It is a matter of setting a target and a directive for the number of sickness benefits – a social objective. This should certainly govern the design and overall work of the Authority. An overall objective and a national objective is not a governance of how to act in the individual case. This governance is determined by our other parts of the regulatory framework, where one should look at the individual and not the social objective. The social objective is for the overall picture and how to work with it – not for the individual assessment. As far as the financing of health insurance is concerned, it will be exciting. We will see what proposals the review makes, and then we will work to implement them. How we finance this will be a challenge and we will be forced to find a solution that the House accepts. I myself, as a social democrat, will work to ensure that there is funding for a health insurance system that is worthy of the name and which guarantees the safety of Swedish workers.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-393	Madam President, I would like As the last speaker in this debate, I cannot help but note that there are obviously many speakers who have not understood the difference between sickness benefit and sickness benefit. For me, there's a distinct difference. The debate we are currently having concerns the Social Security Committee's report and the National Audit Office's report on the refusal of sickness and activity benefits. It is a large and extensive area and an area that arouses emotion. Regrettably, the area can arouse unnecessary emotion, as the regulatory framework allows room for interpretation and decisions are not always consistent. An important question that needs to be asked is: Where is the line between being healthy enough to work and being sick enough not to be able to do so? The limit is in many cases fine, but the foundation must still be that where there is an ability it should be used in the best way. Going to a job or participating in an activity fulfills so many different functions, such as belonging, confirmation and social belonging. Those who are ill or injured and unable to work must be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. A person with a capacity to work should receive support and help to get back to work. It is a goal to strive for that early in rehabilitation should be the guiding principle – to return to some form of work as quickly as possible. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the removal of the lower limit for entitlement to sickness benefit appears to have had a negative impact on the Social Insurance Fund's tendency to investigate the sick person's right to sickness and activity benefit. Regardless of the length of the sick leave, fewer people pass from sickness benefit to sickness and activity benefit today than during the period with a time limit. With a fixed time limit for entitlement to sickness benefit, there was a natural limit to examining the right to sickness and activity benefit. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government introduce a statutory time limit for examining the right to sickness and activity benefit. I and the Moderates support the committee's proposal for a decision in the report to reject this proposal. A regulatory deadline will increase the incentive for more people to receive sickness and activity benefits, and I believe that a clearer rehabilitation plan for returning to an adapted job or to the regular labour market is the goal we should be working towards. There are a number of investigations under way, all with the aim of improving, simplifying and speeding up the management of Försäkringskassan's case management and also reviewing the compliance of cases with the decision support that the authority has. Madam President, I would like In 2003, 73 000 persons were granted sickness and activity benefits. The number fell sharply to 14,000 persons in 2010. The reason for this, says Riksrevisionen, is that Försäkringskassan has made changes in its working methods and in the application of its regulations. The Government has decided on a review of the regulatory framework for sickness benefit and opportunities for meaningful employment for the person receiving sickness benefit. A review is also being carried out to analyse the regulatory framework for sickness benefit and to ensure that there is a clear limit between the long-term sick leave that continues with sickness benefit and those that are instead granted sickness benefit. The Government's ambition with this review is to ease the regulatory framework so that more people can be granted sickness benefit. A more reasonable approach would be to work early on with rehabilitation and adapted employment in order to retain as much of a person's work capacity as possible. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-402	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for her speech. I tried to listen carefully and hear what the Moderates really want with health insurance. Do I understand it right that the Moderates want to reintroduce the distant parentheses and that the Moderates do not want to change the regulations so that it becomes milder and are satisfied with the low approval when it comes to sickness benefit? According to the budgetary data I have, the Moderates also want to reduce the level of benefits in health insurance. Is that a summary of the Moderates' health insurance policy?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-404	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the questions. It is very exciting that the honourable Member is so interested in how the Moderates think. I really appreciate that. What I shall make clear to Nooshi Dadgostar is that the Moderates do not intend to go back to the time of the mid-00s, when people were hidden and forgotten in health insurance and in artificial jobs so that we could get good figures for health insurance. We certainly do not want to go back to that time. We want to see much more aggressive work environment work. We want to see a much more aggressive rehabilitation in order for people to be able to work 100% of their ability. It has been the guiding words of Moderate politics for many years. If you are ill, you must primarily be entitled to sickness benefit. If you have a permanent illness or injury that means that you cannot remain in the labour market, you must of course be entitled to sickness benefit. The review that is being carried out today will be taken into account to see what emerges and to take a position on what our continued approach should be.
i-c059e775ded80ab2-409	Madam President, I would like I see the answer as yes to all the questions I asked Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. I would like to remind the Moderates Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm that it was the Alliance Government that changed the rules in a way that made cancer patients safe and that people with lifelong chronic diseases no longer received sickness benefits. That is the regulatory framework that remains at the bottom and makes us have such a low frequency of approval. This de facto means that the person entitled to sickness benefit does not receive sickness benefit. I hear that the Moderates still have an old health insurance policy – the one that a government inquiry said was the hardest in the OECD. Do I understand right that the Moderates have not reconsidered their health insurance policies? Do we still want to reduce the replacement rates, reduce the number of people to be granted sickness benefit and sickness benefit, and ensure that the strict rules underlying what we are discussing today are maintained? Is that so? Do I get the Moderates' health insurance policy right?
i-c059e775ded80ab2-412	Madam President, I would like It's like this, Nooshi Dadgostar: You hear exactly what you want to hear. You don't really hear what I'm saying. It's clear. In the mid-00s we saw an extreme escalation in the number of people on sick leave. The then Social Democratic government started an aggressive work but did not finish it before the alliance government took office. We had to continue with the work that was begun at that time. Here we have a fairly clear difference in how people's abilities and participation in the labour market are viewed. We want people to work and be able to contribute to our welfare systems. We believe that this is the most important part of our society at all. In addition, all people should have a test that is individual. Here we cannot generalise and say that we are in favour of stricter regulations, but all people should have an individual test. As I said in my previous speech, if you are ill, you should be allowed to receive sickness benefit, and if you have a persistent illness or injury, you should be allowed full-time or part-time sickness benefit. It is not a question of introducing stricter regulations. It is about that it should be a clear framework for individual review. One should not have the scope for interpretation that exists today, which allows very different assessments of the same damage. I think you should listen carefully, Nooshi Dadgostar, and take part in moderate politics. You'll see there'll be a big difference.
