i-Qzm4quCKF7tJJumKy1m8fe	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister Åsa Regnér, Minister Per Bolund and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-0	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Recently, a report from Kristianstad University showed that 600 kilos of drugs are released annually in the Scanian rivers, seas and lakes. The study concerned only 21 out of several hundred pharmaceutical substances used in the treatment of diseases. Darkness is great. With great probability, several tons of drugs leak annually into rivers, lakes and seas throughout Sweden. These drug residues affect the ecosystem. They contribute to infertile and even bisexual fish and can contribute to the build-up of antibiotic resistance. But the impact of medicines is not only a problem within Sweden's borders. About 70 percent of the medicines used in Sweden are manufactured in Indian Hyderabad. Emissions to the watercourses of pharmaceutical residues from production are a major contributor to antibiotic resistance in India. The government has continued the investment in advanced purification technology initiated by the alliance government, which is positive. But I wonder what other measures the government has taken to reduce the environmental impact of our medicines.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-4	Madam President, I would like I thank Kristina Yngwe for bringing this important issue to the fore in this House. As Kristina Yngwe says, we have continued the solid work started by the Alliance Government to build knowledge and find measures to reduce the effects of drugs in water. We have done two things with the budget bill. On the one hand, we have announced a new knowledge centre for pharmaceuticals and the environment, and on the other hand, we have introduced a support that the owners of va-plants who want and can invest in the purification of medicinal products will be able to apply for, so that more plants take the step and invest in purification. There are today three pilot facilities or full-scale facilities that use different techniques to clean up the medicine: one in Linköping, another in Kristianstad with a pilot plant and a third in Stockholm that has announced a full-scale facility.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-7	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Bet money is good. So do we. Increased knowledge through a center is also good. But action is actually needed here and now. It is also something that has been highlighted strongly. It is hoped that Sweden will take a lead in this matter through concrete measures. It is about perhaps looking at requirements and not just support, about taking more account of environmental aspects when medicines are procured and about looking more at environmental concerns when assessing new medicines. There is a great deal that needs to be done. What are you going to do in the future?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-9	Madam President, I would like An important role that Sweden can take is to build knowledge on these issues, not least as we now have several full-scale facilities that you will be able to test. On the basis of the concrete examples, we will be able to build up knowledge. I am also acting on the international stage and have raised these issues within UNEP but also with the World Health Organisation.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-10	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. Sweden currently lacks control over the number of illegal residents. Data suggest that up to 50 000 people may be involved, but, as I said, control is far too poor. In addition, the number of asylum seekers who remain despite rejection is expected to increase sharply in the coming years. There are over 40 000 people in four years. If this is not stopped, it will lead to a permanent shadow society that can be characterised by vulnerability, exploitation of people and crime, and that would not be a good future for Sweden. Instead of returning to their homelands, many choose to live a life alongside Swedish society. For them, income often comes from illegal work and crime.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-13	Madam President, I would like This is a serious problem raised by Christian Holm Barenfeld. For many years, between 6 000 and 8 000 people have been turned down on their asylum application but have remained in the country. It has been relatively stable for quite a long time. Such a development is not acceptable. People who are denied their asylum application must also leave the country. The government is intensifying its work on resources to the police in order to carry out expulsions. This is also happening. In addition, of course, the number of people who voluntarily leave the country is increasing. In addition to the problem of people who deviate after having been rejected on their asylum application, there are also people who are in our country without ever having applied for asylum and without having the right to stay here. That too is a serious problem. Many are illegally exploited in the labour market. That is why we are proposing some measures, which I will come back to in my next speech.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-15	Madam President, I would like It is not worthy of a country like Sweden to allow people to establish themselves in a lawless parallel society where they run great risks. There are now 17 000 people who are being deported, but last year the police carried out only 4 000 expulsion cases, which is a reduction compared to what it looked like before the refugee crisis. We also see that this will increase in the future. Today there are only 357 detention centres in Sweden. They are important for people not to be able to deviate. We propose clear reinforcements to the Moderates. What's the government doing?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-16	Madam President, I would like Many who are illegally in Sweden also make a living by working illegally and are often exploited by rogue employers. That is why the government has invested a great deal in resources to be able to access them. The Swedish Work Environment Authority coordinates efforts together with the Border Police, the Swedish Tax Agency and other relevant authorities and makes raids at the workplace. We will come back with legislative proposals regarding the possibility for the police themselves to go into workplaces to see if people without the right to be in Sweden are being exploited.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-17	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. It is of a general political nature and is linked to migration. It has been an exciting week politically in our southern neighboring country. At the beginning of the week, we could note that Danish Social Democracy went out and stated what for us Swedish democrats has been obvious for a long time: that asylum should be sought near crisis areas. One should not keep alive a system that means that people are seeking asylum in our part of the world if this is not where one comes closest if one flees, but it should happen elsewhere. That is where it should be tried, and it is also where refugees should be cared for that need help. I noted to my surprise that the Swedish Prime Minister's response to this did not consist of the reports that we are used to hearing, but above all of the fact that this is practically difficult to implement. My question is therefore whether the Social Democrats would now be prepared to sit down – if not with us with their Danish counterparts – and discuss how such a solution can be found in practice.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-20	Madam President, I would like Efforts need to be made in those places and in those countries where many refugees are located. Some 60 million people are on the run in the world. The vast majority have not come to Europe but are in other countries. And there needs to be a lot of effort. However, it is not in opposition to standing up for the right of asylum. This government will always stand up for the right of asylum. I think it is a very dangerous development if the right of asylum is to be brought to a halt.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-22	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. A brief and simple follow-up question could have been whether, in the current form, the EU is jamming the right of asylum when there is legislation on the first-country principle. The asylum law is not about where to seek asylum, but about the right of individuals to seek protection from oppression and persecution elsewhere in their home country. It should be ensured that this is offered. Today and for a long time, we have had a system that makes it worthwhile to get far away from your home country in order to seek asylum in a specific country. We do not want to see that, and your sister party does not want to see that, Ylva Johansson. Why do the Social Democrats still want to see such a system?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-26	Madam President, I would like Paula Bieler is confusing two things here. A great deal of effort is, of course, important in the places where refugees already exist. However, it is not in contradiction to stand up for international conventions which safeguard the right to asylum. Both things need to be done. Of course, efforts are needed. Sweden is a major donor, also to UNHCR, which provides support to refugees on the ground. But we will protect the right of asylum. I would warn against a development in which countries do not stand up for the right of asylum.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-29	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Today, the overall environmental movement writes an open letter to the government calling for a cut-off of the forest in the so-called Ore Forest Kingdom in northern Dalarna. This forest is an area of great biodiversity. The environmental movement, at its own inventory, has documented among other 26 red-listed species. It is Sveaskog who wants to cut down that forest. It's a state-owned forest company that we own together. It is the government's declared ambition that Sveaskog should not harvest so-called protective forests.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-33	Madam President, I would like The government is clear that all state-owned companies should act as an example in the sustainability work. We have also stated specifically that it is important in relation to the forest. Our state-owned companies and our government agencies should act as a model for sustainable forestry. I welcome the fact that the peoples' movements are examining this principle carefully, so that we can be sure that our authorities and companies live up to it. On the other hand, decisions on the effects in an individual place are decisions by the authorities. It is not something that the companies decide for themselves, but we have a system in which the Swedish Forest Board makes decisions on logging. And as in all matters, it is the authorities themselves who own the authority decisions.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-36	Madam President, I would like I think that Sveaskog conducts a very good cowhouse around Sweden overall. But in that particular case, Ore skogsrike, I am very concerned. Has the Minister of the Environment taken note of the open letter that the environmental movement has written? When protected forest is threatened by felling, it is a pronounced ambition that is threatened. Then the government should be able to act.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-39	Madam President, I would like I can confirm that today I and two of my Heads of State have received a letter from environmental organisations. We will, of course, analyse it and come back with comments when we have had time to do so.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-40	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. Last week the Moderates announced that if so – G ud forbidden! – become an alliance government after the elections this autumn, the law on employment protection will be impaired. Whatever their purpose, this means increasing the power of employers, and it will be at the expense of workers' security, as if there were too many people who feel secure today. The Swedish Engineers' Negotiating Director, Camilla Frankelius, has previously warned that a deterioration of LAS could mean that everyone becomes a test employee for life. She did so after the right-wing think tank Timbro had campaigned for the abolition of the Employment Protection Act. Trade union representatives from Saco, TCO and LO agree that employment protection needs to be strengthened and not weakened. My question to the Minister for Labour is: What risks do you see with a deterioration of LAS?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-45	Madam President, I would like I hope that the developments of the past autumn and the women's roar of the Metoo movement will lead to a major change in the situation and reality in the workplace. I think it is clear to the vast majority that it is precisely insecurity in employment or dependence in the workplace that has led to many women not having dared or felt able to sound the alarm or protest when they have been subjected to sexual harassment in their workplaces. From this I conclude that job security needs to be protected, not eroded. If the rules of the LAS were to be revised so that the employer could choose who should be dismissed, this would mean that virtually everyone in the labour market would be insecure. I think it would have devastating consequences.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-47	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Ylva Johansson! I am surprised that the organisation Timbro but also the bourgeois comrades here in Parliament seem ignorant of the effects. Does the Government believe that we need public education about labour law and the Swedish model?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-49	I would like to make a contribution, and this may be the case, above all, of the majority parties. Question Time is about the exercise of politics by the government and not the opposition parties.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-51	Madam President, I would like I believe that many people in our country do not have sufficient knowledge of how the Swedish model and labour law work in practice. It is up to the employer to decide whether you need to lay off staff. But you don't decide for yourself who's going to be dismissed. And it is a protection against kicking someone who is displeasing, who has a different origin or has a different sexual orientation. You need to negotiate on the issue, and you do.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-53	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér and of course concerns the state personal assistance within LSS. The minister's special investigator Stig Svensson rallied yesterday at the best debate place in Dagens Nyheter with assistance persons in a rather ironic way, as if they were simulants and as if they were demanding luxury holidays. It can be seen as quite offensive to the parents who are now watching around the clock for their children to eat and breathe. I can also tell from all the comments I have received since yesterday. My simple question to the Government is: Is the Minister behind the debate article that Svensson wrote in DN yesterday in his role as an investigator?
i-QWJC8BuAuWb3e2viviV8yf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson! Stig Svensson was an investigator and recently handed over an investigation to the government. He was tasked with identifying the extent of, among other things, misuse of funds, the appearance of the market and, above all, what is not working for companies within government personal assistance. He has completed his mission and, like everyone else, has the right to debate. On this issue, it is important for me that people who are entitled to personal assistance also receive it. The right person should have the right bet. Funds are going to go to this very point. That is what I and the government think is important. The investigator's investigation has been handed over to the large LSS investigation, which will be in the autumn.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We live in a time when it is planned for and actually built orphanages in our country and when it is planned and built group homes in a number that have not been seen since the psychedel reform. Municipalities that see people's needs are now doing their best every day to meet these needs when people come from the Social Insurance Agency. My question concerns this focus on cheating and irregularities. Does the Government continue to support this?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-62	Madam President, I would like The Government's ambition is that personal assistance should go to the people who are entitled to it. That is why we have frozen the two-year trials to reduce the impact of recent convictions. As Bengt Eliasson well knows, this is the effect of judgments and not something that the government has done. I understand the parents. Nevertheless, we need to review the whole of the legislation. I am therefore waiting for the proposal to come in October.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-65	Madam President, I would like I will continue on the same theme, and I would like to say what the Government was thinking about in its answer: the right person should have the right input. However, when it comes to personal assistance, the evidence that came from the authorities just before Christmas shows that this right has been eroded by judgments. That is something that we have known, and it is something that we have debated in this House many times. Försäkringskassan says that eight out of ten have received withdrawn assistance completely without their needs having diminished. So the court has been eroded. It is also evident from the fact that almost no one today is entitled to personal assistance. Children are most affected. The question is: what is the government doing about this? You referred the whole of last year to the evidence that would come from the authorities. It came in December. We've got the evidence. We know what the reason is. But when will the government's proposal for a legislative amendment to restore what would be a right?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Emma Henriksson! In the meantime, as I said in my last reply, we've been frozen for two years. This means that those who have state assistance payments are protected until the proposal from the inquiry, which will come in the autumn, is received and goes ahead with it. We have also followed up on what happened to people who were rejected or left out because of the judges. I have great respect and understanding for the fact that people, if expected and thought they needed personal assistance, are very concerned about the situation. However, we know that 90% have received other contributions and that three quarters of these people have received some other form of assistance. As far as the investigations are concerned and the impact of them are concerned, I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-72	Madam President, I would like I think many people find it nice that they have frozen the two-year trials, so that not even more people with needs will be without the support to which they are entitled. But the problem is all those who have already become unsupported. More than 1,200 people are currently eligible for state assistance. The evidence also shows that among those who have lost their municipal personal assistance – for municipalities, the same legislation and the same interpretation of the law – 15% receive no support at all. The law needs to be changed, and the question is: When will the government do so?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-75	Madam President, I would like As I said, these are the effects of the judges because the law is constructed so. During Emma Henriksson's reign, you would also have been able to review the judges because they are on each other. You didn't. We've done it. The basis for the judges is that it is not so clear exactly what the change of law would have to look like. We are working on this in the Government Office, and parts of the analyses have also been handed over to the investigation or will be handed over. We will come back to that.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-78	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Consumer Affairs Per Bolund. The government has recently announced its intention to legislate on a requirement for written confirmation of telephone sales. The consumer minister has made it clear that the legislation is not general, but there should be an exception for the gambling market. This has happened in spite of the fact that even telephone sales of lottery tickets, for example, have led to problems for consumers. The government is now proposing legislation to strengthen the position of consumers, but chooses to exclude games that include lottery tickets. It's hard to understand.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Maria Stockhaus for an important question! It is incredibly important that we as consumers can feel satisfied with the sales channels on which we gain access to our goods and services. As far as telephone sales are concerned, it is clear that this is not the case. Many Swedes are dissatisfied with telephone sales as a channel. That's where we need to tighten up. We need to ensure that we as consumers are given the power. Now we are introducing written requirements that give you a chance to think about the offer and really be happy with the offers you get. When the government presented the proposal, we were clear that gambling and lotteries are covered by another legislation. They are not covered by the Distance Contracts Act, on which the new bill is based. There is another consumer protection. This in turn is based on the fact that lottery services are not covered by the EU Consumer Rights Directive. Instead, there is other legislation. We have recently left the legislative referral from the government A re-regulated gambling market, which is about protecting consumers in relation to specific gambling services.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-85	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic Party uses the telephone sale of lottery tickets to replenish its party treasury and has been criticised on several occasions for its sales methods. In what way has the fact that one of the government parties has telephone sales of lottery tickets as a major source of revenue affected the exemption in the new bill?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-87	Madam President, I would like The government of course believes it is important that we as consumers have protection regardless of what products and services we use and what we buy. That is also the case. The fact that this is now about two different areas of legislation is not a reason why we should have less protection as consumers whether or not it is a gambling market. Of course, which parties are part of the government or which services are carried out in the name of these parties have had no influence on this. It is based on existing legislation, and not least on the EU directives that form the basis of Swedish legislation.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-89	Madam President, I would like Child poverty remains a far too widespread problem in Sweden. It means that children who grow up have different opportunities to take advantage of their potential. It also has other negative consequences. It can be about not being able to engage in an interest that costs money, about stigmatisation in general and about overcrowding, which can make it harder to do homework and other things. At worst, a vulnerable financial situation in the family is at risk of eviction. Fortunately, the number of evictions involving children has decreased in recent years, but I would still like to ask the Minister for Children, Åsa Regnér: How does the government work to achieve the zero vision that exists when it comes to evicting children?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! I share the view that this is a very important issue. That's why the government has been working hard on the finances of families with children. Of course, the most important thing is that women like men in Sweden who can take a job get a job and have income through jobs in the labour market. The labour market is doing well right now. It is therefore important that the Employment Service and others make an effort to help all adults get in there. In addition, there should be housing. Therefore, it is being built more than in a very long time in Sweden right now, even housing that more people can afford. We have also strengthened the finances of families with children, as I said. Among other things, we have increased child benefit, as will be noted on 1 March. Or on March 8th, maybe it's-- I've forgotten the payment date, but it's soon anyway. We have also increased maintenance support and made other efforts to strengthen the finances of families with children.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the government is taking this problem seriously. There is a zero vision when it comes to eviction of children, and that is very important. It is also positive that the trend has been broken. As the Government argues, there are many measures that are needed. One problem is that structural homelessness, which is due to nothing but a lack of housing and money, has increased. Can the Government develop how it intends to continue working on this?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-99	Madam President, I would like You have to have some basic conditions in place when it comes to making a living, as I just said. Then the social services have the task of prioritising families with children and also working with different methods of prioritizing when you notice that someone is having difficulty coping in the housing market and in other ways. That is also why there are fewer evictions now, as far as I understand. It has been possible to interact with other authorities. I follow this closely, because it is of course extremely important that children do not experience such things.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-103	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Labour! Sweden is a country where we are used to everyone of working age going to work or studying. Being out of work for a long time breaks down self-esteem and wears out relationships. The economy is poor and not infrequently also health as a result of the anxiety. I've been courted by the long-term unemployed myself. When they visit Arbetsförmedlingen, they are told that the government prioritises new arrivals. It is important for newcomers to have good establishment and jobs, but it is equally important that we have a labour market that is open and accessible to all and that we do not create a we-and-de-feeling among the long-term unemployed. I therefore wonder what the Minister for Labour can do for those who have been long-term unemployed and long-term unemployed, that is to say, for more than two years.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jamal El-Haj-Haj, for a very important question! Jobs are the government's most important issue, and we have had a positive development since we took up employment with 250 000 more people and a falling unemployment rate. It is gratifying that the number of long-term unemployed is also decreasing. Unemployment is also decreasing among people who are far removed from the labour market, such as those with disabilities. But more needs to be done in this. There is absolutely no contradiction between the efforts of newcomers and the long-term unemployed. Therefore, the government is making targeted efforts. We have abolished phase 3 and instead made the whole toolbox available to all the long-term unemployed. There is no longer a dead end, but there are opportunities for education, work training and a wide range of interventions. Perhaps particularly important is the development of extra services where more than 11 000 people today, many of whom are long-term unemployed, have had the chance to find a job with their own contractual income.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. That's what I was hoping to hear from the minister today.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-113	Madam President, I would like It is a priority. We see a clear gender gap in unemployment among foreign-born people and especially among newcomers. In fact, highly educated newly arrived women get jobs to a lesser extent than low-skilled newly arrived men. It is very serious, and we are making targeted efforts there. One important thing is that we have been able to see that the employment support that has existed in the past, such as new start jobs, has largely gone to men while the extra services have a balanced gender balance.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-117	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. The week before Christmas, the Swedish Defence Committee provided information to Swedish households about the fact that we can no longer exclude the risk of war in Sweden. This places huge demands on us as a household, for example, when it comes to heating our houses and cooking. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that Boverket went out with information that it would hinder the use of wood stoves in Sweden. On this we had a debate with the Minister for Housing this week. Fortunately, Peter Eriksson backed up from what Boverket said, and he also said that Boverket had caused many people to misunderstand what they really meant. My question is whether Karolina Skog shares the housing minister's view that more should burn wood and use wood stove in Sweden.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-121	Madam President, I would like The answer is that, of course, the information that comes from the Minister for Housing is the government's message. There is no other information to give from any other department. The information that has come from Boverket about wood stoves has unfortunately led to grave misunderstandings and concerns in the country. However, the Minister for Housing, who is responsible, has clearly stated that this concern is largely unfounded. When burning wood, it is important to burn effectively. It is important that we, as a state, act to encourage the renewal of the plants used to burn so that more people are given the opportunity to burn efficiently and thus do not contribute to either health-dangerous or climate-affected emissions.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-124	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to know how this information relates to the regulatory letter received by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in December concerning firewood. In any case, I had the impression that you wanted to reduce wood burning in Sweden, so the Minister for the Environment is happy to develop how the regulation letter is related to what she said now and what the Minister for Housing said earlier this week.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-125	Madam President, I would like The information Boverket gave before Christmas concerns wood stoves. It is an implementation of the EU Ecodesign Directive. The commission received by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency concerns wood boilers, i.e. wood burning as a primary heat source. Both are about encouraging renewal and directing the efficient burning and use of efficient facilities. So they rhyme well with each other.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-128	Madam President, I would like It is now just over two years since the agreement on migration between several parties in the Riksdag was concluded. One thing in the deal that I was particularly pleased about as a center party was an increase in career introduction jobs – both in terms of who would be covered by the form of employment and which companies would use it. The aim was to open up for more people to come to work. Last spring, the target group was extended from being only young people to new arrivals and the long-term unemployed. It was also left to open up the form of employment to companies without a collective agreement. As a center party, I am very keen that it is a matter of honour to deliver what has been agreed upon – the handshake applies. My question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson is: With what speed and frenzy does government work go to open up career introduction jobs even for companies without collective agreements?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-132	Madam President, I would like We've drawn up a bill, a Ds. It is out for a referral, and as soon as the consultation period expires, we will proceed with the preparation work.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-133	Madam President, I would like Does the letter under discussion mean that even companies which do not currently have collective agreements will be able to be included as target groups in order to implement the broader reform of job creation so as to maintain and consolidate the agreement reached?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-134	Madam President, I would like That is my view, and that is the intention. Now we have a referral. We will also listen to the consultation bodies, and then we will have to take a final position after that.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-136	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Environment and Climate Change Karolina Skog. Under the responsibility of the Minister, the hunt for wolves and the licence hunt that has ended in the days fall. In Västmanland it was decided that six individuals would be convicted in Kölstareviret outside Köping. It is a territory that has caused great damage in the area where the tolerance of wolf is becoming less and less damaging to people's ways of living in the area. Unfortunately, the hunt has been edged by a whole series of problems that are important to deal with so that they do not arise again. The decision to hunt for wolf is made for all the rules of art in the true democratic spirit. Nevertheless, a number of individuals who consider themselves above the law have done all they could to prevent the legal hunt. My question to the Minister is therefore how she and the government will overcome the acceptance of predators through the wildlife management delegations when democratic decisions cannot be implemented.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-140	Madam President, I would like The government has made a number of important changes to the handling of decisions on wolf in Sweden and in general decisions on hunting. We have ensured that decisions are made regionally with regional influence through delegations and in good order in the courts. We have also ensured that the courts handle the decisions promptly so that the hunt becomes feasible. We no longer need to see the late announcements that have marked the order in the past. If someone in our country is obstructing the implementation of decisions taken by the authorities and courts, it is a police matter rather than a political one.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. During the Westmanland game management delegation meeting as late as Monday, the group in the forests was legitimised by the Environment Party representative in the delegation. That is something I find very remarkable. Does the Minister think that civil disobedience on the verge of crime is okay now that it is not only in the forest but also in the politically elected assemblies?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-144	Madam President, I would like Possibly there's a statement that's upset. I must ask you to understand that I cannot comment on a statement that I myself have not heard but received from a secondary source. I have no comment on what an environmental party in the country has said in a closed room.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-146	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Establishment Ylva Johansson. The need for SFI education has increased significantly since the 2015 refugee wave. Today, SFI education consumes just over SEK 3 billion a year. Last Monday the Cold Facts program went on TV where a co-worker had a wallraffat a sfi class. The programme revealed that teaching was inferior. No textbook was used in teaching, the grading was flawed, etc. The wall - rapping teacher stood alone with 50 - 60 students. According to the agreement, there would be two students in each class. What does the Government think of the current situation? Do you have any plans to tighten up your business? Wouldn't it be better for the government to take over the entire operation? It's the taxpayers' money we're talking about.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-150	Madam President, I would like Sfi, Swedish for immigrants, is extremely important. It is important that people learn the Swedish language as quickly as possible. That is the key to Swedish society. We have everything to gain from the fact that this teaching is as effective as possible. I am very upset when I take note of the information from Cold facts where it turns out that rogue actors who have won procurements in a municipality can then conduct a completely rogue business, in any case as it seems to be according to the TV programme. It does not deliver the quality that has been promised in the procurements, and there seems to be a lack of control by the municipality. Of course, the municipality must have enough control and ensure the quality if it chooses to hire private operators as the executioner of SFI. But I also want to say that I know that there are many serious and very good private actors who do an excellent job and are important for us to pass Swedish education for many new arrivals.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-153	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I want to follow up on the question. Private companies have entered the market with SFI training. Cold faka highlighted e company Astar who took out 27 million SEK in profit last year. It certainly does not hold out what it promises. Is it only the municipalities' responsibility to manage procurement? Can't you imagine a government responsibility? Somewhere it's taxpayers' money. They do not seem to impose any requirements on companies.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-156	Madam President, I would like It is natural that the person who makes the procurement and is responsible for the payment is also responsible for the control. In this case, it is the municipality that carries out the procurement and is also responsible for the control. On the other hand, the government has tightened up legislation on public procurement precisely in order to be able to have better control and make higher demands. These are demands that the Swedish Democrats have not supported.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-159	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. The new amortisation requirements will make it impossible for young households to obtain housing while at the same time leading to the reduction of housing projects.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-162	Madam President, I would like We all know, at least if we listen to our expert authorities, that high and growing household indebtedness in Sweden is a risk to the financial system. It is responsible to take measures to try to reduce that risk over time. We all know the impact of a financial crisis on our economy, our society and also on the housing market. The important thing is that we have stability over time. We know that if there are imbalances, the demand for housing and access to housing will be significantly affected. I don't think you should exaggerate the effects. We have carried out fairly thorough reviews of the impact of the new amortisation requirement on different household types. It is a rather small group that is affected. However, we obviously need to take steps to get more housing in place. There, the government has succeeded in many actions. We are now at historically high levels of housing. These are levels we haven't seen in decades. Of course, we must also look at the housing market. But it is a more comprehensive political issue.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-167	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The increase in borrowing is rather due to the fact that demand is much greater than supply. The housing shortage is precisely due to a housing shortage. It is enhanced by the reduced construction we see. It becomes much harder for many to get a place to live. Young people, older people and even people who separate and need housing will have increased costs.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-169	Madam President, I would like I don't think you should use superiors. To say that the government is locking up the market is one of those upper words that we may not want to use in the debate. Both Isabella Hökmark and I know very well that we have a very well-functioning and vibrant housing market. For example, there has been no reduction in mobility. The government intends to build many homes. This applies not least to rental apartments that give us freedom of choice in the housing market. What makes it most difficult for people with low incomes to enter the housing market is if we have a sharp rise in prices that we have had in recent years. Therefore, balanced development may be better.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-173	Madam President, I would like After the breakthrough of democracy in Sweden, it would take many years for children to become important in politics. The child benefit was introduced in 1948, the same year that the first book on Pippi reached the world. The man who more than anyone else stood up for the reform was named Gustav Möller. He had grown up in a very poor home with a single mother. Eventually he became Minister of Social Affairs. Some authoritarian politicians felt that it was better to give food to the families who were less well off. Gustav Möller hated that idea. From the introduction of child benefit and pre-school development until the ban on agony, Sweden has been one of the countries that took the lead in realising the dream of a child's welfare society.
i-188x1vYPmDFUP6iJVeRosD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Österberg! This is a priority for the government. On Wednesday next week, we will organise one of the largest UN meetings ever held in Sweden. It is about how to prevent and stop violence against children in all its forms. It concerns child abuse and other forms of violence against children. We from the government want to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child Swedish law. In this connection, we also want to introduce a knowledge boost for the authorities, the judiciary and others who decide on individual children, so that they understand what the rules of the Convention on the Rights of the Child mean and what the new legislation will mean. These are some examples of how we prioritise this very important issue.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Regnér! I think it feels very good that the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes law. Does the Minister of Social Affairs see any obstacles or challenges on the way to this?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-181	Madam President, I would like This is a major change and a bit of pioneering work in Swedish legislation. There are different views on how the incorporation should be done. You have to decide whether to incorporate or not. That's what the government wants. However, we also take great account of various points of view that have been put forward to ensure that this legislation is as good as possible. Above all, all children have the right to know their rights.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-182	Madam President and the Minister for Employment. The Swedish language has received a new word: competence deportation. The word is new, but not the phenomenon. Almost daily you can read about labour immigrants who are expelled because of small, unconscious errors on the part of the employer. The future CEO of the biotech company Birka in Lund will soon be expelled because he himself temporarily reduced his salary when the company went badly. What does the Minister for Labour say about that? Can we afford to expel people who do the right thing, pay taxes and create more jobs?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-185	Madam President, I would like No, we don't. Of course, we need to ensure that people who have come to Sweden to work, who have important skills, who are in demand and who are needed in the labour market, can also continue to work here and are not expelled because of mistakes or minor inaccuracies that are not crucial. After all, the legislation that underpins what is happening today was produced by the previous government. This government has come up with proposals to change this.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-187	Madam President, I would like The Migration Court of Appeal has issued two guidelines from December 2017. These judgments should have put an end to expulsions of hardworking people for trivial errors. It's not like that. The skills screenings are continuing.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-189	Madam President, I would like As Boriana Åberg knows, the government cannot put an end to this, but the government can propose new legislation. It is not the government that interprets the laws, but the courts do. The law which is interpreted is that which was introduced by the former bourgeois government. The government wants to change the legislation, and there will be a bill – unfortunately, I am not exactly up to date on the timetable. It's in the Department of Justice.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-191	Madam President, I would like An environmental issue that has been given much attention in recent years, not least in connection with the government's major maritime conference in New York, is the issue of microplastics in the seas and waters. It is also an issue that we Social Democrats, not least through our MEPs Åsa Westlund and Jytte Guteland, have been pushing for a long time. Here in Parliament, too, we have paid attention to this issue. Now the government in the budget bill has announced a ban on microplastics in cosmetics. My question to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog is whether we will see the proposed ban here in Parliament soon and what products this applies to.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-194	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for an important question! The decision to ban microplastics in rinse-off cosmetics is taken by the government. It is a change of regulation, that is to say, a decision which the government owns. The decision will apply from 1 July this year. Then the stores have six months to sell out what they have in stock. At the turn of the year, it will be completely forbidden to sell cosmetics containing microplastics. It will apply to toothpaste, peeling products and to things that are rinsed off or spitted out and that contain microplastics that are synthetic. Derogations are made for polymers that occur naturally, for example in rice.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I also wonder what other measures the government is planning to reduce microplastics. What about artificial turf plans, for example?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-200	Madam President, I would like The Government has received a report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on the large sources of microplastics available. The main source is tyre wear. Therefore, we have given an investigation mission to several authorities to see what measures can be taken to minimise microplastics. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been given a specific task to come up with proposals on artificial turf plans.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-202	Madam President, I would like There has been quite a lot of discussion over the last few days about the ban on wearing a comprehensive veil in public places, not least on the basis of the legislative proposal that the Danish Government intends to present. The Swedish Democrats have long been, and still are, of the opinion that comprehensive veils should not be allowed in different public contexts, just as for most other masks. In addition, we believe that children may need extra legal support in order to be able to protect themselves against pressure and abuse even in private contexts and environments. My question to Minister Regnér is thus: how does the government view these issues? Do you intend to come back with a legislative proposal like the Danish one?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-206	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Fredrik Eriksson! The government is working very hard to protect children's privacy and to strengthen children's rights. Among other things, we have presented an action plan that includes many authorities and actors to increase their cooperation and strengthen their mission. The police, for example, should have quality in their work when it comes to investigating child abuse. We were just talking about the inclusion of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the law. Authorities and others who are responsible when it is implemented must know what it means. When it comes to sexual and reproductive rights and gender equality in Sweden, these are absolute rights. They cover everyone. Children's sexual and reproductive rights are also absolute rights. They cover everyone regardless of their background and family. Some veiled ban, on the other hand, does not prepare the government.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-211	Madam President, I would like It feels good to hear that the government is working to protect children's rights in general. But women also have certain rights and needs. I know that the former President of the Government, Mona Sahlin, said in 2010 that she was prepared to fight for the right of all women not to wear a complete veil. However, she was not prepared to support a ban then. It has now been eight years, and the soft line has not worked. Is it not time to resort to legislation if you are really prepared to fight for these issues?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-213	Madam President, I would like Gender equality is a priority for the government, and we are working very hard on it. As far as gender equality and sexual and reproductive rights are concerned, it is incredibly important for all children to have access to them and thus be able to equip themselves and protect their integrity. One big question for us is, for example, the right to abortion, which Fredrik Eriksson's party is questioning. For us, it is important that all children, as well as adults, know their rights. The rights of both children and women should be known, and they should apply to everyone.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-216	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. We Social Democrats have been working hard for order throughout our term of office on the Swedish labour market. However, we hear from different parts of the labour market that labour-market crime is adamant and that organised crime is profiting from tax evasion, trafficking and price dumping. This week I met representatives of Fair Play Building. It is an organisation run by Bygg Stockholm and Stockholm Byggmästareförening. The organisation's aim is to stop crime and create healthy and secure workplaces where companies can compete on equal terms. Their work is extremely important, especially in the Stockholm region, where, unfortunately, strong growth and increased construction have also attracted organised crime. That is why I wonder: how does the government work to curb labour market crime?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-219	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for a very important question! The crime of working life is extremely serious. In particular, there is a number of evidence that they are particularly extensive in the construction sector. This has devastating consequences for individuals who are often exploited and exposed to dangerous, sometimes life-threatening, work environments. In addition, serious players are being outcompeted by the rogue players, and as a result we risk having a very dangerous development. Fair Play Build does an impressive job. They tell us about different rogue and criminal actors. I think that last year they submitted 40 – 50 tips to various authorities who could then act. The Government also acts with a special assignment to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which has the task of coordinating a number of different agencies that jointly make strikes at the workplace. The Swedish Work Environment Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Border Police, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and other relevant authorities are making joint efforts.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Perhaps the most shocking thing is that organised crime is also partly fattened by poor procurement. Now I may be a little out of the remit of the Government, but I would like to point out the absurdity of the fact that organised crime can also be financed by public procurement.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-224	Madam President, I would like I take this extremely seriously. This is one of the reasons why the government has changed and tightened procurement rules so that other and clearer requirements – so-called social requirements – can be set in procurements. It is important that we can put an end to crime in the area by area and that we get better control. This may, for example, apply to civil servants in the construction industry, identity issues, long construction chains and much more. In the area by area, we intend to continue until we get things sorted out in the construction industry as a whole.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-226	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Per Bolund my question. We are now very pleased to learn that the Government is presenting a proposal to introduce written requirements for telephone sales. I am very pleased that the government is making progress on this despite the fact that support in Parliament has been somewhat unclear. S, V and MP have been for this all along. The Christian Democrats have now said that they are also in favour of the proposal. I really hope others are too. This is a very important issue. Only one per cent of consumers find it positive to be phoned up by companies with which they do not already have a customer relationship. 58 percent feel that there is a risk of being deceived and misled, and 11 percent say that they have been deceived and received a product that they have not ordered.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for an incredibly important question! I, too, think that we are taking a very big step forward for consumer protection in Sweden. From many surveys and unfortunately too many examples reported in the media, it is well known that telephone sales have not always served as a channel. Dissatisfaction is great and groundwork. We have seen examples of companies that have focused on calling, for example, retirement homes to try to convince residents to become customers using rather aggressive methods. More than one in ten Swedish respondents say that they have received goods or services sent home after telephone sales which they believe they have not agreed to or bought. So there has been a need for regulation and better conditions for us consumers. We also need more opportunities to influence. Now we will be able to get offers in text and then be able to decide on and respond if we want them or not. Of course, we must also ensure that the rules are complied with. In particular, the Swedish Consumer Agency has a very important task to ensure that the sales companies that exist in Sweden are doing well.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-235	Madam President, I would like As the Minister says, this has been a major problem for the elderly, people with disabilities and people who do not master the Swedish language. That is why it is very important for these groups, yes for the whole people, that this should now come out. It is also important to recall that a contract can be confirmed in various ways: by text, e-mail or mail. There will be many ways to solve this in practice.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-237	Madam President, I would like This is an important step forward. We have seen how in other countries written requirements have been introduced for telephone sales. The serious players are still there and have a well-functioning operation. The bottom line is that both those who deliver and customers are much more satisfied with such a system. However, we also need to strengthen our authorities. One example of this is that we have given the Swedish Consumer Agency much bigger muscles. Now that they see a campaign that is misleading or that does not comply with the rules, they can actually stop the sales campaign immediately. This is an important step forward.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Mr Ylva Johansson, Minister for Labour and Establishment. Unfortunately, for many years it has taken very long for newcomers to establish themselves in the labour market. But now new statistics from SCB show that new arrivals are moving faster and faster to get to work. In the past, it has taken up to ten years before half of the new arrivals have come to work. SCB's new figures show that almost half of those received in 2011 had jobs after five years. This is, of course, a welcome development. But it still takes a long time to establish itself. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what measures are behind this welcome improvement. And what further steps can be taken to speed up the entry of newcomers into the labour market?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Strand! This is a very important issue. In many years, the time before half of the new arrivals are established in the labour market, not the time to first job, has been commuting between seven and ten years. Now we see that we are halving that time, and that is extremely gratifying. The outlook for the future looks even better. It's especially fast for men. After three years, half of men have established themselves in the labour market, while it takes much longer for women. That is why it is important to continue efforts. The focus on jobs from the first day is extremely important. It is also important to take advantage of the good economic climate, in which many employers demand labour, by equipping individuals with training and by rapid and effective language interventions, which are adapted and based on the different skills of the individual and also take into account particular professional skills. From 1 January, we also make increased demands on the individual.
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-246	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! It is gratifying that we see such a positive trend in the establishment of new arrivals. But we still have major challenges, as the Minister said. I am thinking in particular of women who find it difficult to establish themselves; it takes longer. Are there any special measures that can be taken to ensure that newly arrived women are established more quickly and come up at the men's pace – or perhaps even better?
i-8bfeb8e083d12f12-248	Madam President, I would like Yes, it does. The Government invests special resources to ensure that those on parental leave can continue with SFI, so that they do not lose contact with Swedish education during parental leave. We have special resources for outreach activities concerning adult education for foreign-born women, to motivate studies. The establishment assignment introduces training requirements for the short-skilled. We have special resources for start-up aid, which is aimed at those who are short-skilled. And we are reviewing social orientation in order to strengthen gender equality.
