i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Swedish Democrats have two reservations about this report, which deals with a new law on data protection. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 2. During the spring we have been able to follow the tours about how sensitive data about us as users has leaked out from the world's largest social media platform, Facebook. We already know that all the data we share, both voluntary and involuntary, is only used by companies around the world to map and earn money from us users. It is an incontrovertible fact that the mapping that is now taking place throughout all hours of the day and around the world is unprecedented in history, Madam President. However, the right not to be surveyed is enshrined in our constitution. The second chapter of the government form makes it clear that no Swedish citizen may, without consent, be entered in a general register solely because of his political opinion. It also provides that everyone is protected against the general breach and against the investigation of letters or other confidential consignments and against the secret interception or recording of telephone calls or other confidential communications. It also explicitly states that it is to be protected against the general breach of privacy, if it is done without consent and involves monitoring or mapping the individual's personal circumstances. Madam President, I would like I dare say that the rules on the protection of our integrity which are now enshrined in our constitution are not enough even by a long way. As you have heard, the provisions of the government governing this are used in the general sense. It is therefore a question of the state. The data collection that Facebook and other private companies are currently conducting against Swedish citizens would never be legal if it were carried out by our own state. The fact is, Madam President, that private companies on the other side of the Atlantic today know more about Swedish citizens than the Swedish state or even our closest ones do. This has got to stop. The provisions of our Constitution must be strengthened, and the rules must include Facebook and other international companies. There are those who say that anyone who has nothing to hide has nothing to worry about either. All of you in here and all of you watching this right now have at some point in your life done, said or written something – maybe taken a picture or stuck on a picture– that you regret. That is why I believe, Madam President, that in some sense everyone actually has something to hide – something we are not proud of and that we do not want to benefit anyone else. People make human mistakes, and we must be allowed to do so. Of course, with all the information stored about us, the risks of intrusion into our private lives are also increasing. The fact that the companies we provide all this information to use it for mapping is of course bad enough, but even worse is it if the information leaks through, for example, data breach. Let me take an example: a few years ago, a huge safety hole in routers from a particular manufacturer was noted. The manufacturer was and is still one of the largest on the international market, and its products are likely to be found in tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of Swedish homes. In practice, the safety hole meant that significant parts of these individuals' private hard drives were open to everyone in the world. Some may think that there can be only a few individuals who have the knowledge to use this type of safety hole and thus access the content. But it takes less than ten minutes to acquire the necessary knowledge, even for those who lack more prior knowledge. A few minutes after someone gets that knowledge, the same person can copy or delete all or part of your or my private hard drive. Madam President, I would like The new Data Protection Act is an improvement on the previous Personal Data Act, but it does not go far enough. In two respects, the Swedish Democrats want to go further than the government and the other parties. Firstly, we believe that the right to be forgotten, which in practice applies to those who wish to delete their account, must be absolute. The person must be guaranteed that all details and traces of his or her presence are effectively deleted. Secondly, the Swedish Democrats want to stop the dissemination of and trade in personal data that is being carried out today – and which, unfortunately, will continue to be carried out with the current proposal for a new Data Protection Act. In principle, there should be a total ban on trade in personal data unless each individual gives his or her express consent every time it happens. Consent must be clear and not hidden in long agreements that are too complex and wide-ranging for individuals to be expected to understand the meaning of what they actually agree to and accept. With regard to the dissemination of personal data, the starting point should be segmentation, where the servers that store the data should be located in the same country as us users. With the General Data Protection Regulation, the EU wants the dissemination of data within the EU, and to some extent within third countries, to be facilitated. We from the Swedish Democrats are of the opposite opinion. Unlike the government and the EU, the Swedish Democrats instead want to see personal data remain within their borders as much as possible. Madam President, I would like There is much to say about personal integrity. Today, people, and especially young people, live most of their lives on the Internet. In some sense, the Internet today knows more about us as individuals than our own family and our closest friends do. That development worries me, and it should probably worry us all. Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Instagram and all their names have been given free leeway for too long. It is time that the ownership of our personal data is actually returned. It is we ourselves and no others – not states and not private companies – who should have knowledge of our interests, what political opinion we have, who we communicate with and what we say. Madam President, I would like Let me come back to what I said about those who claim that anyone who has nothing to hide has nothing to be afraid of either. Would the same people be prepared to give up their freedom of expression in the event that they have nothing to say? Would the more than 15% of our citizens who never vote advocate the abolition of voting rights and democracy? I don't think so. The defence of our democracy and freedom of expression, as well as the right to privacy, concerns us all. We are eight parties represented here in Parliament's Chamber. Through our representative democracy, we are the greatest representative of the people. The decisions we make affect generations after us. The Swedish Democrats want to give these generations a chance to live free from improper mapping and surveillance by both the state and multinational companies, Madam President. Let personal integrity become an issue we can agree on, so that both we and the generations after us can feel that one day we will have power and control over our own lives!
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-17	Madam President, I would like We are now debating this report which I am presenting to the Members of this House. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The committee proposes that the Swedish Parliament adopt the Government's proposal for a law with additional provisions to the EU's Data Protection Regulation and the proposal for a law on changes to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The EU's Data Protection Regulation will be applied on 25 May and will constitute the general regulation of personal data processing within the EU. The legislative proposals introduce certain general additions and clarifications to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. The proposed legislation repeals the Personal Data Act and introduces a new law with additional provisions to the EU Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act, and changes to certain provisions of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. According to the Data Protection Act, with certain exceptions, the General Data Protection Regulation shall also apply outside its actual scope. The Data Protection Act shall be subsidiary in relation to another law or regulation. It allows for divergent provisions in so-called register constitutions. The Data Protection Act clarifies, among other things, the conditions under which certain personal data may be processed on the basis of the General Data Protection Regulation. The Data Protection Act also contains certain provisions on limitation of data subjects' rights as well as on damages and appeals against decisions. The Act also states that the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act should not be applied to an extent that would be contrary to the Freedom of the Press or the Freedom of Expression Act. The report has been referred to. The Law Council has reviewed the legislative proposals. The Government has essentially followed the proposal of the Law Council. Certain linguistic and editorial changes have been made in relation to the legislative proposal of the Council of Law Responsibilities. The general regulation on the processing of personal data in the EU currently exists in what is commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive. This does not apply to the processing of personal data in areas that fall outside Union law, such as public security and defence and a number of additional areas. The Data Protection Directive has been implemented in Swedish law mainly through the Personal Data Act, which we call PUL in daily terms. The PUL basically follows the structure of the Data Protection Directive. The Government notes that the General Data Protection Regulation replaces the General Data Protection Directive, which has been implemented in Swedish law mainly through PUL, PUF and the Swedish Data Protection Authority's regulations. It is noted that the General Data Protection Regulation should not be implemented in Swedish law, but should instead be applied directly by individual authorities and courts. Article 9 of the Data Protection Directive requires Member States, with regard to the processing of personal data carried out exclusively for journalistic or artistic or literary purposes, to decide on exceptions and derogations from parts of the Directive only if they are necessary to reconcile the right to privacy with the rules on freedom of expression. Two consultation bodies, the Swedish Data Protection Authority and the National Board of Trade, question the compatibility of the proposal with EU law. However, the government believes that this is compatible. The Swedish Data Protection Authority is proposed to become a supervisory authority, and the Government argues that the supervisory authority has the task of increasing public awareness and understanding of risks, rules, safeguards and rights in relation to processing. Particular attention shall be paid to actions aimed at children. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Data Protection Authority to strengthen its work to facilitate the industry's adaptation to the General Data Protection Regulation and to inform about the regulation in order for Swedish companies not to lose momentum in their digitisation work and at the same time be able to maintain a good level of privacy protection. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has collected comprehensive information about the data protection reform under a specific tab on its website. The Agency has also helped to develop a guide on the main foundations of the General Data Protection Regulation and how it works. As can be seen, the Swedish Data Protection Authority will also have the task of helping, guiding and informing about the rules for personal data processing and data protection. The bill also states that some authorities stress the need for a comprehensive review of the register constitutions. The Government notes that the short time available to adapt Swedish data protection regulation to the new EU regulation does not allow for wider national reforms in this area. According to the Government, this does not exclude that certain such horizontal changes could be justified and therefore be considered in a different context. Some bodies consider it remarkable that the impact of legislative proposals on associations and civil society is not mentioned by the investigation. The Government states that it is clear that the directly applicable provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation will have certain consequences for the general and for companies, non-profit associations and other individual bodies. The committee welcomes the comprehensive information measures that have been taken and which will also continue to be taken. According to the committee, it is of great importance that companies, non-profit organisations and other individual bodies in particular should be informed about the regulation of personal data processing. The committee shares the government's view that a full impact assessment of the data protection reform cannot be carried out in this legislative case. The committee stresses, however, the importance of the government ensuring, to the extent possible in relation to EU law, that the regulatory framework is designed to clarify the provisions of data protection regulation and facilitate its application both for the general and for companies, non-profit organisations and other individual bodies. The committee considers that the proposals made in the proposal appear to be well balanced on the basis of the need for the adaptations and additional constitutional provisions at the general level that the General Data Protection Regulation gives rise to. The committee therefore supports the considerations made in the bill and proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for the Data Protection Act and proposals for amendments to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-32	Madam President, I would like Jonas Millard has expressed concern about the legislation before us. Veronica has described well what it contains and expressed satisfaction. I would like to join the majority of the committee in saying that I think the government has made a good proposal. It can be described in different ways. In the industry paper in the industry where the family is active, a burning headline was put: Are you prepared for GDPR? Are you done? Do you know you can pay big fines? That's one way to describe it. Another way is to stop saying GDPR, as the industry magazines say just to mess it up and increase consulting fees. We can call it the Data Protection Act or the General Data Protection Regulation. I think everyone in this salon should try to use the Swedish expression. What does that mean? Why do we think this is a good proposal? Well, it's an adjustment and an improvement. Much will of course need to be done in the future to adapt it to rapid technological developments. However, the proposal now on the table will provide greater protection. It will also mean that everyone must apply it, whether they are companies, associations or whatever they are. Collecting personal data must comply with the new Data Protection Act and the General Data Protection Regulation. When I bone in the text, I can see three basic principles to stick to. To begin with, you need to have a clear purpose when you start collecting personal data. So you have to be clear about why you do it. You can't just randomly collect it because it can be good to have at some point – in the housing association, the boat club or the small bookstore. You must also not change the purpose afterwards and say that you have a good collection of personal data, which you would use for another purpose. It is therefore expressly prohibited. And that's an improvement. Then you have to be open to the people you register. This also applies, of course, to a right-of-occupancy association, a small business and also to giant companies. If a registered person asks what has been registered about him, it is not enough for the boat club to say: We have the name of your boat. But you may have registered something else that they don't report. So you have to tell us everything you have registered, and it has to be able to respond to the purpose that you have. One improvement is that the person who collects personal data must be so technically and organisationally arranged as to meet the requirements of the regulation. If you can't handle the technology and don't have order, you haven't complied with the law. You can't say you didn't understand or you didn't understand. Then, of course, you can get a cost for it. It's called built-in data protection. In fact, it has the effect of constantly improving the management of your data protection. Now this should be done on 25 May. That is, of course, what the consultants are living on, that 25 May is approaching and that there can be high fines if you do not have what you want. Then I would just like to say from this speaker's chair that if you are not ready by 25 May– there are many who will not be, you should have given priority. If you have given priority to trying to adapt to the new legislation and document what you have done but are not finished, it is of course better than to hide under the covers and hope that no one sees you. If you haven't done anything here, it's like you haven't made a claim before the Tax Agency. If you have claimed a deduction, the Tax Agency can say that you have tried but failed, but they cannot say that you have hidden something. It's the same thing here. If you start working under the new Data Protection Act but are not completed on 25 May, you do not have to be particularly afraid that you will be punished by paying multimillion dollars, as it says in some newspapers. Another good thing about the new law, unlike the previous one, is that you must not collect more data than necessary. Many who collect data usually have the feeling that it's good-to-have data. It's no longer good enough, but now you just have to collect just as much data as you need. And you can only collect data in relation to pre-defined purposes, which is also a clear improvement. As an object of this collection, one should be able to ask why the data is collected, what is the specific purpose. Furthermore – and there is a great deal of sin – you can only keep the personal data for as long as they are to be used for the stated purpose. It is excellent that it says that you should save in as few places as possible. This means that an association with county departments, a company with 120 stores or anything else with distribution in the country does not need to have 120 registers that look the same. You can keep the register in one place, and those who need to go in and look there without copying the entire register. This is progress. All users should be prepared to show what has been recorded about people. They must not tangle and say that they have telephone times or otherwise make it difficult; they must tell you straight up and down what information they have about you. Last but not least, the Swedish Democrats may be on the right track in their reservation, but it is very briefly described how in practice it should go to be forgotten. Perhaps that is why we have read the Swedish Democrats' reservation but not really followed. But of course you should have the right to be forgotten, simply deleted – of course. There are rules now for how it is to be done, and perhaps in the future we need to develop them more. The people we've seen so far are too sweeping, but maybe there's a trail here. Similarly, in the Special Opinion of the Center Party there are very valuable thoughts that need to be further developed in the future. It is about how we should do with the limits of artistic activities, academic activities etc. There will be new demands on us as legislators in the future as regards data protection. Nevertheless, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-F5ykdJZL96Vm9Hdcfv22h7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Dag Klackenberg, for the pass! The question concerned the Swedish Democrats' reservation on the subject of the right to be forgotten. As I understand the current draft legislation, that right will not be absolutely absolute, because not all the data will go away. It is basically the same problem today. To take a concrete example, which people in the computer world talk about most, it is often about social media. You and I have been having a conversation over Messenger or other applications. I can delete my account, but what I have written in our private conversations stays and is still stored. Then you can reason that it is messages that you have received from me and ask who owns the messages. If we back up the tape for a while, we can compare it to the fact that I sent you a letter. Then I can't come to your house and pick up the letter later, after I regret what I've written. I'm saying the internet isn't really comparable. Children and young people send thousands of messages back and forth. One might ask whether it is something that they should have to stand for when they 15 to 20 years later apply for a job. I may think this is not that simple. This needs to be problematized, and that is why we want to say that it should be investigated how the right to be forgotten can become more absolute. This was clear.
i-Lny3Y2P9dJ5biH9dDbjD3H	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Millard, for your comment! It's obvious we're on the same track. But you are now widening it to include all social media. I stuck with those who really keep a record. We will have to think in the future about how to legislate on this. Cambridge Analytica really shows what a problem we have in this. We must have solid legislative work that will enable all citizens to understand the rights and dangers of social media. There I mean that you may be on the right track, but the reservation is not technically good enough for us to join it on the part of the majority.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-54	Madam President, I would like There's not really much to replicate on. But it was good that I had the opportunity to clarify what we mean. Dag Klackenberg mentioned several examples in her speech, including the local boat club and the housing association. I don't think that's where people worry the most today. While we are taking this approach to data protection, I think that we could also have looked at the somewhat more worrying aspects of the Internet in particular with regard to social media. I take it that it is there that most people feel a certain concern today about what data is stored and what we can choose to delete, how our personal data is used for marketing and how mapped we become as individuals. The answer to these questions was not long ago, when we were able to listen to the hearing in the United States by Facebook's founders. Unfortunately, there are also a lot of other rather frightening examples of how our personal data has been incorrectly used. I welcome the interest of the Moderates in these matters. The Swedish Democrats believe that personal integrity is important. This is an issue in which I believe that we eight parties must sit down and come to an agreement in order to achieve a system that works and strengthens our personal integrity in the long term.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-58	Madam President, I would like I can say briefly that this is not the last time this issue has been discussed in this House.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-59	Madam President, I would like On 25 May, the new General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force. It is about EU legislation that goes directly into Swedish law. In this connection, we are adapting a number of other legislative products, and I believe that there are about twenty of them that will pass through Parliament's Chamber in the near future. From the end of May, we will have about 500 million EU citizens significantly stronger privacy protection for online data. The Green Party has worked tremendously at EU level to strengthen online privacy protection, perhaps especially through the green report of a Jan Philipp Albrecht, who has done a great job in the negotiations to pilot this huge piece of legislation into port. There are many of us who are receiving emails these days from the bank or any other organization where we are registered. They tell me about their work with GDPR – if I dare to say it, Dag Klackenberg – and about the possibility of being forgotten if you want to, the right to receive information when data is moved etc. It is also a question of no longer having to receive information in such a way that one must only accept something by ticking. Now there is a clear right that you should be able to understand what it is you say yes to and that you should not be able to do without being completely outside society. It is also about companies no longer getting away by placing themselves in a country where there are weak privacy laws. The legislation applies to all personal data throughout the EU. There are many organisations and companies that contact us politicians and are concerned about the high periodic penalty payments they risk if they do not behave. I have some sympathy for that concern. Like many of the international regulatory products that will work in many countries, this legislation is quite complex. However, the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which is now to be renamed the Privacy Protection Authority, has done a fantastic job in explaining the new legislation in an educational way. It provides a lot of support, information and training, just as Veronica Lindholm was at. Today's product, KU23, does not deal with the regulation itself. Instead, we are dealing with legislation with supplementary provisions to the EU's Data Protection Regulation and demarcations. Veronica Lindholm has explained many of these boundaries. However, there are two things that have been highlighted in the debate, but about which we in committee have not spoken very much. The first concerns the age limit for social media. The regulation proposes a 16-year limit as standard, but Sweden wants to lower the age for when you can agree to be on social media to the lower limit, 13 years. This has been rather controversial, and I think that this lower age limit is very much to be desired. The second concerns fines in the public sector. The new Privacy Protection Authority will be able to impose fines of up to 5 million for minor infringements and up to 10 million for serious infringements. Madam President, I would like I believe that the new EU legislation is a major step forward. We will see a significantly better protection of privacy. The additions are very good, and I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-72	Madam President, I would like For us Members of Parliament who are today debating and deciding on the new Data Protection Act, it is important to be able to review the consequences of the new data protection legislation as a whole. For those who apply the new legislation in their activities and who may face very high fines in the event of non-compliance, it is of course necessary to understand the legislation. However, the Government states in the bill that an overall impact statement cannot be made in this individual legislative matter. In a separate opinion in the Constitutional Committee's report on this matter, I have criticised the lack of a statement of impact and the fact that the legislation is largely passed on to case law, i.e. to the courts and the Data Protection Authority, to make interpretations of how data protection legislation is to be applied. I can even less contribute than the government with an impact description of data protection legislation, but in terms of legislation, the EU Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act we will decide on the EU Data Protection Directive and our previous Personal Data Act, PUL. For the Riksdag, the Data Protection Act is the most important matter in the chain of legislative matters based on the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force on 25 May this year. The Government will decide on specific data protection rules for various government activities and on regulations in the area of data protection. The Swedish Data Protection Authority will decide on rules for the protection of personal data. In addition, the Swedish Data Protection Authority will supervise and decide on measures and penalties for those who do not comply with the requirements of the legislation, regulations and regulations on how personal data may be handled and used. In a referral to the investigation, which forms the basis of the new Data Protection Act, it has been pointed out that many non-profit associations will be affected by the increased requirements of the bill for the processing of personal data. This applies, among other things, to the membership registers and how they can be processed. Like several consultation bodies, I find it remarkable that the impact of the proposals on associations and civil society has not been mentioned in the investigation work, nor is it highlighted in the proposal we are now discussing. When I went online looking for associations and data protection, did I find an article with the title The text is said to be a simple introduction since most associations will be affected. It is also mentioned that for some associations there will be a need to seek legal advice. For most associations, legal advice costs money, money that associations prefer to use in their business rather than at the cost of legal advice. The EU Data Protection Regulation states that Member States should take legislative measures to establish the various exceptions necessary to strike a balance between fundamental rights, i.e. freedom of expression and press, in relation to privacy. Such an exception is contained in Chapter 1 of the Data Protection Act. Section 7, where the right is granted to use data registers with personal data for journalistic purposes and for academic, artistic or literary creation and in various ways to process these data in a computer-based manner. I believe that data protection legislation would need to clarify what is artistic and academic creation and to make boundaries on how personal data may be used in these activities. To give the interpretation of what is artistic and academic creation to case law in full in the legislation, I see as a great uncertainty as to what should apply. Madam President, I would like As you can see, I see shortcomings in this legislation, shortcomings that are impossible to correct with the basis we have received from the government in the proposal and with the timeframe for the legislation to apply from 25 May this year.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-82	Madam President, I would like Many praise the new legislation, and I agree. The new General Data Protection Regulation is good. It is clear and clear in terms of enhanced privacy protection and the right to actually decide for yourself which data should be available on one and how they should be processed by different authorities, companies, organisations, associations and so on. It is a somewhat complicated piece of legislation. It is the General Data Protection Regulation, which comes directly from EU law, that applies. Then it must be supplemented by Swedish legislation in various places, and this has been explained. The current Personal Data Act is removed, and what we are about to decide on is the Data Protection Act – the Swedish legislation that will complement and clarify the General Data Protection Regulation. While it is important that privacy is protected, we must see that there are many good reasons and important reasons for processing personal data. This applies to companies but also to associations, such as sports associations, political parties and various associations, which need to be able to handle their membership tasks and have address details. The obvious thing today is to do this on computers. They do not have paper and pen, but registers are kept, and these can almost always be manipulated in different ways and get into, as with all registers. It is very important that this is handled in a good way and that you also see that there are reasonable reasons to process personal data. What the committee writes and says is important – that we must ensure that those who need to handle personal data receive support and help in being able to do this properly so that it gets well done. Now that the Swedish Data Protection Authority is changing its name to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, it is important that the information from the new authority is such that associations are able to do the right thing. A lot of work has been done on this, and it is important to continue working on this when there are new regulations and clarifications of what the law means. This law does not deal with all registers. In the KU, we will later this spring be dealing with the registers which are currently protected by certificates of release. There are sometimes some other notes, and one has more belief that it is good to keep records of release certificates when people are actually being hanged for the rest of their lives. The balance between registers that handle data on people and registers that have certificates – how it should be weighed – is a difficult thing that we need to come back to, but I think I hear that there is a certain imbalance in how people's right to privacy is viewed. This is a good piece of legislation, which is why I support the committee's proposal.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-90	Madam President, I would like When I was a kid, my dad told me about espionage. He had been present during the war and told how they tried to drink military personnel under the table to obtain information. It sounded like a storybook. And then I came to school, where you rubbed like schoolchildren and kids do. I wouldn't say you were bullying, but you sent me notes. Today it sounds like a storybook. Today you can reach the whole world with a computer in your pocket. You can expose and be exposed with global reach. How in the world are we legislators to deal with a situation where people's entire lives are forever changed by what is being laid out? We don't need to take any current examples – we've seen them in newspapers and on TV screens – but we can think about the consequences for people when their entire lives are laid out. Here the committee is now trying to protect people's integrity. It is a balance in terms of the right to privacy, which is precious because we know that there is a risk that it will be ruined forever, from childhood onwards. At the same time, we will live in a society that works. We will be able to get medical care where there are medical records, we will be able to change schools where our actions follow us and many other things. How is this balance to be achieved? I note that the EU is helping us. In many respects, one can sigh a little over the EU, which may not seem to be the most flexible body in all its parts, but that is not quite the case. Europe has helped us to develop what we could not do ourselves. We have improved data protection through the General Data Protection Regulation, and now we are complementing this with a new Data Protection Act. It may be a little uncomfortable and some mistakes. I'm thinking about associations that can get worried, sometimes unnecessarily. In some pilot cases, it may be justified, and it may seem to be a little too good. Then you should know that we are prepared to look over this and make sure it gets better. There is absolutely excellent information available. It's on the web. We heard it mentioned earlier-- I'm not going into all the technicalities-- but it's possible to seek help. I would like to remind you that from the age of 13, you should now be a social adult and know how to manage social media. It is a huge responsibility that lies in people's hands. From the age of 13, when life and the body rush, there may be consequences for all time. This is not yet properly regulated and may not have to be, but the committee will continue to try to monitor our personal integrity. This is a step in the right direction. I can therefore recommend to the House that the proposal be approved. Finally, I would like to add that I have been in the same investigation as Veronica Lindholm and Jonas Millard, about integrity, and there we have had to bump and wet these issues. I thought I was reasonably well educated, but here I'm just a beginner. Yet together we were able to get a good distance on our way. I would like to thank you for that community, for the good words of Jonas Millard and for the attention given to personal integrity that his work has involved and which has now resulted in an insightful reservation, which I hereby reject.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-98	Madam President, I would like In the report we are now debating, the KU36 Constitutional Questions, there is, as I see it, one of the most important substantive political positions that the Constitutional Committee makes this parliamentary term: a proposal for an investigation to review the need to further strengthen the independence of courts and judges in the long term, in particular with regard to the constitutional regulation of the number and retirement age of the Justice Councils, an opportunity for the highest courts to meet in special composition and the organisation, governance and role of the Court of Justice. Among other things, several motions from the Moderates of the KU are supported. On other issues in the report, there are two reservations that the Moderates support. For time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 20. However, I will only talk here about the independence of the courts. In order to qualify a state as a state governed by the rule of law, it is essential that it has an independent judiciary. The 2008 constitutional investigation states: The role of the courts involves much more than resolving disputes and dealing with criminal cases. The courts must safeguard the rule of law and the rights of the individual citizen, inter alia: the task of ensuring that the constitutions adopted in democratic order are properly applied. Furthermore, it follows from the form of government that the courts exercise standard control in accordance with the principle of judicial review – – –. The courts also have legal tasks, for example, through the role of the Supreme Courts as precedents. Sweden's membership of the EU and the obligations arising from, inter alia: The ECHR has further clarified the role of courts in society and their importance as a guarantee of citizens' rights. ..................................................... Recently, the debate on the independence of the courts has gained new momentum and topicality, particularly in the light of developments in Hungary and Poland, where the respective government and parliament have taken measures that are in various ways contrary to the requirements that should be made for a judiciary to be called independence. To this may be added other worrying signs in time, such as the outcome of the US President in February 2017 against individual judges who rejected the entry ban he wanted to impose. At least as bitter were the attacks in November 2016 by British politicians who had campaigned for Brexit against individual judges in the High Court of Justice who handed down a controversial judgment related to the Brexit issue. Among other things, it was claimed that the judges were enemies of the people who had declared war on democracy. In the light of these various events in our close environment, it is very important that we in Sweden, too, discuss whether further measures are needed to safeguard the independence of the judiciary and what measures it should be. Such a discussion may perhaps be seen as superfluous given that Sweden is a stable democracy and a mature rule of law. Swedish courts act independently in relation to the government and parliament, and the country's judges typically have high integrity. However, the fact that the Swedish rule of law is perceived as unthreated today does not mean that it will be safe tomorrow, which is why we should act now and not wait for threats to arise. Against an increased defence of the independence of the courts, it has sometimes been argued in the debate that such measures are of little importance because an evil regime can dismantle constitutional barriers. On this basis, however, any constitutional protection of rights and freedoms or anything else could be described as pointless. No change is in the long run impossible for an authoritarian regime that can force the citizens to submit, but constitutional protection for democratic institutions and rights makes it difficult for those who want to create a different kind of society. It should be complicated to dismantle democracy, and it should not be possible to do so quickly or quietly. The form of government already contains several provisions aimed at safeguarding the independence of the courts. The question therefore arises as to what further measures may be needed. Let me address the four issues specifically mentioned in the announcement. The role and power of the Court of Justice in relation to the courts have been discussed for a long time. It is an authority under the Government with the task of providing administrative support and service to the Swedish courts. In practice, it has proved difficult to draw a line between the Agency's purely administrative support activities and those activities which could, in any case, indirectly affect the judicial activities of the courts. With the administrative responsibility of the work and the distribution of money comes power that could affect the independence of the courts. Should a future government wish to increase its power over the judiciary, it could appoint an obedient Director-General and provide the Court of Justice with very detailed rules on how the authority should exercise its power vis-à-vis the courts. In many countries, the central court administration is led by a separate government and parliament council composed of a majority of judges. The Council appoints the Head of the Court Administration and is often also responsible for the supervision of the courts. This further protects the independence of the courts. Within the EU there is even a network for this type of court council, The European Network of Councils for the Judiciary, ENCJ. Of the EU's 28 Member States, 20 have judicial councils that are members of the network. It could be seen as an expression that this way of leading the central court administration is the rule of law standard. Sweden is obviously one of eight countries that deviate from this standard. A reasonable conclusion, therefore, is to work towards the creation of a Council of Justice to govern the Court of Justice and appoint its Director-General. Turning to certain questions about the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, it can first be noted that HD and the HFD are currently essentially regulated by law, not by constitution. There are certain risks involved. On the one hand, a regime that wants to make the work of the highest courts more difficult could do so by greatly reducing the number of judges. On the other hand, a regime that wants to take control of the courts could greatly increase the number of Justice Councils and appoint regime-loyal judges to these positions. Both of these changes could be implemented through a simple legislative change. Therefore, in the form of a government, a minimum and a disturbed number of judges should be established in the HD and HFD. The issue of the retirement age of the Justice Councils has become important in the light of what has happened in Poland and Hungary. A government can try to strengthen political control over the courts by forced retirement of judges who are not perceived to be sufficiently loyal. In concrete terms, it has been a question of reducing the age at which judges are obliged to retire in order to get rid of all judges who are older than that. Therefore, consideration should be given to setting out in the Constitution the minimum age to be attained by a Justice Council in order to be required to retire. A question that is of a different kind than the aforementioned is about whether there is a need for closer cooperation between the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. In principle, it could be said that this could be an opportunity to strengthen the authority of the judiciary in society by establishing a partially consolidated supreme review process. In addition, there are also more practical perspectives on the issue. What is concrete is to enable HD and HFD to determine goals in what has come to be called special composition. This would mean that one court would also ask members of the other court to take part in the decision on certain cases, in particular cases of three types: Firstly, there are cases in which the standards to be applied do not constitute specific jurisdiction for either the general court or the administrative court, such as the constitutions or the European Convention. A specific decision would then allow a common practice on the application of the constitutions and the ECHR to be established and would eliminate the risk of conflicting judgments in one court or another. Secondly, there are cases where it is unclear whether it is a public court or an administrative court that is to decide. This would eliminate the risk of targets falling between the chairs. Thirdly, there are cases in which issues of general jurisdiction have been raised in an administrative case or vice versa, for example, where a tax case before the Supreme Administrative Court raises a company law issue which is actually a matter for the Supreme Court. Even then, special composition would eliminate the risk of conflicting judgments – contradictory case-law on the part of the two highest bodies. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the Constitutional Committee agrees that an investigation should review these important issues of the independence of the courts and judges. This means that we in the Swedish Parliament take responsibility across party boundaries to strengthen the protection of the rule of law at a time and in a social climate when different forces threaten democratic institutions in different parts of the Western world. This broad consensus is an outcast for Swedish democracy.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-121	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee may not receive as much attention in the media as we may think we deserve. Once we are paid attention, it is not always on our own merits but often in connection with our review of any of the government's clavers. Nevertheless, we are dealing with perhaps the most important area on which the Riksdag has to decide, namely our constitutions. Many of these constitutions, such as the Freedom of the Press Act, are undoubtedly a source of pride and connection to our history, which we should be careful with and cherish. The Freedom of the Press Regulation has more than 250 years old. Perhaps the most fundamental of our constitutions, the form of government, is in its present form much younger and undeniably appears as a product of its time, namely the somewhat beigea 1970s. Recent revisions to try to modernise it to our present have made things worse rather than better. Among other things, it has been abandoned that the Swedish constitution should of course refer to and be enjoyed by Swedish citizens in favour of the much wider concept of Is it also going to be, no matter which country or which people those people come from? Well, that's a question. Nor is it any clearer or better that, in recent years, the EU's power over Sweden has been crept into the Constitution and thus, in many cases, a right for the people of other countries to rule over the rules that apply to the Swedish people in Sweden. Although our current form of government still takes on board important issues such as democratic government and municipal self-government, and what rights Swedes and now others have in relation to the public, the Swedish Democrats nevertheless believe that it would be appropriate to have a thorough review of it. The Swedish democrats had no opportunity to influence the 2010 revision. In addition to trying to dissuade some of the worst offs, which I mentioned just now, we also wanted to add a lot of other essentials. So, as I have already wanted to say, the foundation on which the form of government is based is primarily popular government. But nowhere in the present constitution is anything said about the people actually expected to rule the kingdom. Since popular government and the form of government are for Sweden and the Swedes, we believe that the Constitution should begin with a story about Sweden as a country and the Swedes as a people. A new programme should therefore be introduced, with the meaning that Sweden is the country of Swedes and a description of the Swedish cultural specificity, the Swedish language and Swedish history as crucial for the emergence of modern Sweden and that modern Sweden is a continuation of Swedish history. Other things that should of course also be laid down in the Swedish constitution are, for example, the Swedish monetary unit and Sweden's national anthem. Similarly, although in the succession order, it should be ensured that Sweden continues to remain a monarchy. Such a provision for a new monarch to be elected in the event of the present dynasty being previously included in the constitution and could thus be reintroduced with simplicity. Not least in troubled and rapidly changing times, there is actually a self-worth in maintaining at least one constant that the people can end up behind. On the other hand, there is no self-worth in the quartet of choosing and choosing if someone who still has no formal power to influence the lives and everyday lives of their constituents. And it definitely wouldn't be cheaper. Madam President, I would like As you can hear, there is clearly not a lack of Sweden-friendly proposals on what could be improved in our constitutions. But for the sake of time, I will limit myself to just two more. The first of these is that Sweden as a nation should renegotiate and vote on membership of the European Union. For that even to be possible, then, the unfortunate constitution of the Constitution that Sweden is a member of the EU must first be abolished. The Swedish democrats are generally sceptical about locking the nation into inter- and supranational cooperation at constitutional level. Therefore, it should not be explicitly stated in the form of government that Sweden cooperates with the UN or with any of the other organisations in which we are currently a member. Of course, it is good that we interact with others. But instead of stacking organizations on top of each other in the form of government, it would suffice to write that Sweden participates in international collaborations where they are deemed to be beneficial for the kingdom. Finally, Madam President, I would like to remind you that the basis for a stable democracy is cohesion. The Swedish Democrats want to elevate and enhance citizenship. In addition to making it clear that our constitutions should primarily refer to and be enjoyed by Swedish citizens, by reversing the extremities of the recent constitutional revisions of the concept of Swedish citizens, there must also be an opportunity to withdraw or reclaim, under very special circumstances, clearly acquired or used citizenship. For example, it may be that we have left our relationship to commit horrendous terrorist crimes in the name of other communities. That is precisely the question I, or my colleague in the committee, will have to come back to in more detail in another speech when we discuss the proposals and boundaries of the various parties in connection with the KU's report on freedom and rights. In the debate on this report on constitutional matters, I am content, for the benefit of time, to call for the approval of reservations 7 and 13, although we are of course still in favour of all our reservations to the report.
i-KJTKA4C6vxvf97h9YQe3K1	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report on constitutional issues deals with more than 150 motion requests from the general exercise period both in 2016 and 2017. Six motion requests have been fully supported and two have been partially endorsed by the Constitutional Committee. In this way, the Constitutional Committee makes a unanimous proposal for a declaration to set up an investigation to review how the independence of courts and judges can be strengthened. The announcement should be seen as a clear response to developments in Poland and in other countries with nationalist parties in government positions where judges who do not follow the government's political line are removed and replaced by others. We want to ensure that such a development is avoided by clear legislation that prevents a government in Sweden from dismissing judges in the same way as in Poland. This will be a way to strengthen the protection of our democracy in Sweden. The fact that we have reached agreement on the announcement in the KU is a great success to me. All the other 140 motion requests have been rejected in the Constitutional Committee. The Center Party has two reservations and a separate opinion on the report. A reservation concerns the importance of civil society for democracy. We want to encourage people's activities in associations and in society in order for us to have participation and a living democracy. The second reservation concerns issues related to EU cooperation where we emphasise that the EU should be used to solve cross-border problems. We highlight the need for clearer requirements for Member States to comply with EU decisions. We also want a review that makes Europe more effective. In a special opinion of the alliance parties, we highlight the issue of a constitutional court and standard review. In future, we would like to see an investigation into the pros and cons of a special tribunal for abstract standard testing. Madam President, I would like Like Andreas Norlén, I am in favour of reservation 20 under paragraph 28 on the importance of civil society for democracy.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-141	Madam President, I would like There are many different issues raised by the report. This is the case when it is a general exercise report and all parties want to throw in their heart issues. It's kind of sprawling pretty good. Most of it is rejected in the usual order. However, we agree on an announcement that there needs to be a look at the independence of the courts and an investigation into whether it can be strengthened by constitutional law. However, we do not agree on everything else. We in the Left Party have reserved for two main areas. One area also applies to independence. This applies to the independence of Swedish public services, where we want to see that an investigation is being carried out to see if we can strengthen the independence of public services. There are quite a few similarities in terms of public service and the threat to the work of free media and journalists in many countries in Europe. These are countries where we did not think we would see such a development. There are many similarities with what Andreas Norlén pointed out about the need for regulation of independence for courts. This also applies to the need for independence for public services. At this point, however, we have not received the support of the other parties in the committee on the matter, but the Left Party has a reservation. We believe that there are more and more reasons to look at what such protection for public services might look like. We will not give up, but there will probably be more exercise in this area. I hope that we will be able to move forward there too. Another area in which the Vä nster party has several motions concerns the state and various forms of transparency in the royal court and palace state regarding the duties of the head of state, the succession order and so on. In the report we are dealing with several motions written by representatives of several parties, various individual motions but also multi-party movements and committee movements from the Left Party in this area. I will not be in favour of all the reservations, but I am in favour of Amendment No 2, which is the main issue. Our view is that we should actually have a country governed by representatives of the people. All power shall proceed from the people. It is unreasonable for us to have a Head of State appointed by inheritance – that we have a system of monarchs and a Head of State appointed in that way. It's the world of fairy tales with princes and princesses. That should not be the reality of a modern country like Sweden. We believe that an investigation should be set up to review how to make a transition to a republic in Sweden. Precisely what this republic should look like is, of course, something that this investigation will have to look at. But as long as Sweden is a monarchy, it is reasonable that we have transparency in the court and castle state in the same way as we do in other activities that are paid by state resources. We spend a great deal of money on the court, but we do not have the transparency that we have in other contexts. The Head of State obviously has representative tasks, and there needs to be money for representation in the same way as it does for other activities. The Head of State represents, and then there should be a representative account for this. Then there should be a fee for the assignment in general. This should also be looked at. This applies to the Prime Minister, who has a fee for his mission, and then there is money to keep the Government Office going and the representation needed there. This kind of thing should be reviewed while it is being investigated what a transition to a republic should look like. As has already been said, I would like to endorse Amendment No 2.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-148	Madam President, I would like This is a massive report which addresses many and important issues, as well as a lot of very complex ones. The report deals with everything from government and the royal house – and to that, as a liberal, you can be split – to membership of the EU, where, on the other hand, you as a liberal are not split. I support all the reservations expressed by the Liberals and also the common alliance reservations we have, but for time, I only support Liberals' reservation No 9, Questions linked to EU cooperation. We believe that the EU must be able to bring an action against countries that do not implement EU law on time. The EU does not lack challenges, either from within or from outside. Then we need a Europe that is kept together, and the processes in the European Court of Justice against countries that do not comply with our agreements must go faster than today. Europe is not just a club where you can get; you must also be able to balance and give. It is simply about the continued legitimacy of the European Union and about citizens' confidence both in the European Union and in democracy as a whole. Madam President, I would like Unlike some, liberals believe that democracy should be enjoyed by everyone and not just by citizens of Sweden. It should also apply to citizens of the European Union and of the rest of the world. It is precisely the question of citizens' confidence in democracy and its importance that is a common thread in the report, in which the committee, in a joint declaration to the government, raises the importance of a more modern and clearer civil servant's responsibility. This is something liberals have been exercising in a long time. Another announcement concerns an introductory training for government employees – something we in committee, not least through the JO's annual reports and in our reviews, have realised the importance of. Then there is perhaps, in my opinion, the most important announcement – the setting up of an investigation to review the need to further strengthen the independence of the courts and judges. Today, liberal democracy and the democratic model of freedom of organisation, freedom of opinion and independent courts are under pressure. The number of countries that according to the think tank Freedom House are defined as free decreases. Developments in Poland and Hungary, as has already been mentioned here, show that regimes, even in countries that are full members of the European Union, can successfully dismantle structures that should be self-evident in democracies. Sweden is one of the most stable democracies in the world, but we are not immune. In order for popular governance, the rule of law and the free formation of opinion to work also in a political twilight situation, democratic structures need to be more robust. The ultimate protection against madness is, of course, a popular commitment to democratic values, and democracy needs to be constantly reclaimed and explained. In Sweden, it has been obvious that the administration of justice is carried out by independent courts, and this is a prerequisite for a democratic and legally secure society. But, as I said, it is sufficient to point back to developments in Hungary and Poland to show what a strategic objective the courts are for those governments that want to dismantle the liberal democratic model of society. The independence of the courts is constitutional in the form of government, but there are gaps that need attention. That is what the committee is now doing, to the satisfaction of liberals who have been exercising on this for a long time. Among other things, there is no constitutional regulation of the number of judges to sit in the country's two highest judicial bodies. This enables an authoritarian government, for example, to exert pressure on the judiciary by working to increase the number of judges in the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. Similarly, if a government does not consider any of the candidates proposed by the Judiciary to be sufficiently regime-loyal, it could refuse to appoint new judges at all to the highest bodies. Attacks on the judiciary have also been carried out by significantly lowering the retirement age of judges. In this way, an authoritarian government can empty the judiciary of judges who do not owe their position to the current government, and a large number of vacancies arise that can be filled with more suitable candidates in the eyes of the regime. The question of constitutionally regulating the number and retirement age of judges should therefore be included in the next constitutional review. Similarly, financial and administrative power over the courts should be reviewed. The Court of Justice has a collective responsibility for the courts' budget and is responsible for important administrative tasks. It is basically a reasonable model. But we can no longer be naive; if the bad luck is there and we get a government that does not respect the order we have had, such a government could appoint a regent Director-General of the Court of Justice to benefit the courts that the regime favors and punishes others. Madam President, I would like Let us hope that these fears never come true. Let us hope that all new generations are behind democracy and openness we have in Sweden. Sweden is a country with a historically long period of peace and consensus, but for this very reason I think we must remember the old quote. We need to build a structure that could withstand even the most insane era of populism and attacks on our open, liberal democracy.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-161	Madam President, I would like I could almost as well have asked for a reply to the previous speech, when one touched upon the state and whether Sweden should be a monarchy or a republic. However, I think it will be more interesting to take this issue with the Liberals, because I know that there are many liberals who advocate republic. It also has a warm EU spirit and a desire for independence and freedom of thought in the liberal world. I have a genuine thought and a genuine question for those of you who advocate republic: is the idea of introducing republic that it should also change the relationship of power between the Head of State, the Head of Government and the national parliament? How do you see it? Should you choose a figurehead every five, seventh or ninth years, or do you see in front of you that the person you choose should also be given an influence and a formal power that may thus be taken from elsewhere? That'll be my first question.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-164	Mr President, I would like to It feels good to get a genuine question from a Swedish democrat. As far as government is concerned, I think it is quite clear that in liberalism there are split ideas as to whether we should have monarchy or republic. We stand up clearly for the Torekov compromise that we have agreed on. Until something else happens, that is what we fully support.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-166	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the short and core answer, Tina Acketoft! The picture that is painted to my mind when I listen to how the liberal model – or at least the model advocated by certain tendencies of the Liberals – is described in these questions shows the introduction of a republic with a head of state which is then hopefully attributed to some form of power in order to make any sense whatsoever to choose the person who can be picked from the government or, above all, from parliamentarism, the Swedish Parliament. There is also a current in terms of transferring more power to the EU and that other countries' peoples and representatives should have a direct impact on what will apply in Sweden. If we link it to the liberal tradition of liberalism, we also want to transfer more power to the individual, which may seem quite legitimate. What I am thinking about is parliamentarism. Are Liberals behind parliamentarism? What role does the national parliament play in such a new order as it would involve with President, Republic, increased powers for other peoples to decide what should apply in Sweden and a reduced influence overall on the elected assembly and parliamentarism?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-169	Madam President, I would like What pictures are painted for Fredrik Eriksson's interior I don't even want to imagine. The view of humanity and the world order of which the Swedish democrats in Fredrik Eriksson's representation demonstrate here I cannot show any understanding whatsoever. We believe in a Sweden where we have a elected parliament, just like what Fredrik Eriksson actually represents. We also believe that we need a wider and larger Europe that takes joint responsibility for the issues that we need to resolve. The representatives there are also elected, but this is what Fredrik Eriksson's party is constantly trying to force away. They are elected as Members of the European Parliament, and they are elected to the Swedish Parliament. That is why we have popular rule, and that is what this report really wants us to be allowed to retain, even if we have a regime that does not fundamentally believe in everyone's equal value and everyone's equal voice. Every vote is worth the same.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-171	Madam President, I would like Throughout the 20th century and as far as we have come in the 21st century, every year Members of Parliament have always been able to be someone on the outside who has been exercising about abolishing the monarchy. The committee responds to these requests in the same way each time and the House confirms it. We write that, in the past, motions for the abolition of monarchy and the introduction of republic have been discussed in committee. In these parts, the committee maintains its previous positions and rejects the motion requests. ..................................................... What is important in this report, what we have a common understanding of, and what we are moving forward and fighting together for is the independence of the courts. We see the danger, albeit far from us but theoretically possible, that it could be curtailed by the independence of the courts. We want to strengthen democracy and the judiciary, and so there is a unanimous announcement in our committee report to the government to set up an investigation to review the need to further strengthen the independence of the courts and judges in the long term, in particular as regards the constitutional regulation of the number and retirement age of the Justice Councils, an opportunity for the highest courts to meet in special composition and the organisation, governance and role of the Court of Justice. We agree on this. We are also safeguarding democracy in this respect, in relation to the judiciary. There are a lot of motions, over 150, that we have up for discussion, debate and scrutiny in the committee's proceedings. I think that I am only taking one reservation that I am saying something about, so to speak, to give the flavour of the Christian Democrats to what is important here, and that could be highlighting the importance of civil society. Often others may think that the state is equal to society, but that is not the case. There is so much in society that cannot be regulated under the state budget and that absolutely should not be regulated under the state budget. Then I am not just thinking of the home and the family, but I am thinking of civil society with associations, churches and peoples' movements that are inalienable – which are not regulated by government offices but are nevertheless very valuable. There is an alliance motion on this point, No 20, to which I would like to give my assent, Madam President. It calls for a democracy in which every citizen is given the opportunity to participate, influence and participate not only at the time of the election but continuously. This requires the development of forms of work within the representative political system, public administration and parties in order to encourage active participation and achieve real influence. A functioning democracy requires equality between women and men. In 2009, the Alliance government presented a new policy for civil society as a substitute for the previous peoples' movement policy. The aim of this was to highlight the importance of civil society, to develop and clarify the relationship between the state and civil society and to take a holistic approach to general issues relating to civil society and its conditions. Developed collaboration between the different sectors of society also has an important democratic dimension as people's ability to influence is increasing. Civil society also has an important role to play in fostering participation, responsibility and democracy through the activities carried out. I and the other reserveers, the alliance parties, wish to emphasise the importance of civil society as the bearer of democracy.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-178	Madam President, I would like These are the motions of two national meetings on the central elements of our constitution in this report. We do not deal with freedom of expression regulations and we do not deal with details of the electoral system, but otherwise it is the central parts of our constitution. I would like to say that our political life is largely marked by the aftermath of the financial crisis ten years ago. In fact, there are some research findings that point in that direction. It is in the great upheavals in the approach to democracy that we see it. Unfortunately, the number of democratic states or with strong democratic elements is in decline. The height of 1989 when the Soviet system fell apart has been replaced by an emerging scepticism, and I believe that this can be put in connection, among other things, with the financial crisis that has divided societies in a way that we see, above all, on a daily basis in the reporting and analysis of the United States. The central mechanisms of our constitution are not really addressed in the motions that we have now received for two years. It concerns the one-chamber, the principles of electoral systems, the role of the President in relation to the Head of State and the Prime Minister and the regulation of parliamentarism. We can say that we have had to illustrate the importance of voting rules in particular. To bring down a government, 175 votes are needed against the government, while in everyday parliamentary work, relative majority voting is sufficient in this House. This leads to an outflow of a party system that has gone from five to eight parties but which is driven to minority governments. There are, of course, other elements that play a major role in the system, but I would like to dwell on how we have applied these keys to our parliamentary system during the past parliamentary term. I have taken some impressions of the SNS democracy report Cooperation and struggle in parliamentary democracy, which came last year and which I know many of the members of the KU have been out debating around. I would like to say that the December agreement is a memorial, if I may put it that way. It is laid off, but in reality it has worked in important pieces. It is a sign that it has been possible to regulate this election result with minority governments tolerated by the parties in this House. It should be noted that the December Agreement is terminated in that there is no moral commitment into the next term of office. But there is no doubt that practice can be pointed out; how has the parliamentary system worked? I can mention that the authors may actually criticise parts of the December agreement. However, there are also other parts. This applies, among other things, to how to arrive at the agreements for which the December Agreement stood, which were to be implemented and which have been implemented. This also applies to broad consensus in defence and security policy. There, the Defense Committee has played a role. It concerns the Pensions Group, which has worked on issues relating to the pension system. This is a small group of parties, but it all has a cross-block character. This also applies to energy policy, where we have, fortunately, found a very broad consensus. There are also other areas, such as the management of the budget process in the future. What is important here, as the authors of the book point out, and which has a bearing on why the December agreement existed and why it was cancelled, is the need for parliamentary-complex investigations. The investigation system builds under the possibilities of functioning democracy even in minority governments. I would like to say that the management of the increase in immigration in autumn 2015 also took place across the block borders. In this context, the investigative work played a minor role in the emergency situation, but the Constitutional Committee's review of immigration policy has played a role. Here it turned out that political capital in the sense of knowledge of the conditions made it possible to make decisions in quick order. Madam President, I would like One point that I think should be raised – where I also think there could be understanding from the opposition – is what we do with all the announcements that we receive during this term of office. This is a very large number. The government has a possibility of movement in relation to them, but it is, of course, limited by the majority positions. We do not see before us a new term of office with the same frenzy as regards announcements, many times with the same factual content. I hope that it is possible to come forward here with the limitation that we reached when the Alliance effectively dampened so-called negative announcements. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report on a declaration to further strengthen the independence of the courts through an investigation has been the subject of several important speeches today. On the part of the Social Democrats, we fully support this. For us, the main mark is perhaps what our President mentioned: the European association that is normal in the European democracies means autonomy in the governance of the Court of Justice, which we believe there is a value in trying to achieve. The same applies to the possibilities of convening between judges from the different courts. We are concerned about developments in some of the European countries. It is better to prevent than to be overlooked, Madam President! It is compromises and not logical logic that are the essence of democracy, not least in the Nordic countries, says leading Norwegian social researcher Johan P Olsen. He is unsure how the Nordic democracies will cope with the pressures. I am more optimistic that the basic pillars of our state will be able to cope precisely with the flexibility that we have applied both in the old form of government and in the present one. The December Agreement is an attempt, within the framework of this system, to resolve both the conflict zones of the party constellations that have arisen and to create opportunities for cooperation. I mean – and I do not think I am alone in this – that parliamentarism in conjunction with freedom of expression in the long run is the safest form of governance and survival of democracy. With this, we would like to call for approval of the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-197	Madam President, I would like We are now debating KU36 Constitutional issues. It is a motion report that deals with more than 150 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise in the last two years. I support the proposal in the report. This is the second time in this parliamentary term that we are debating constitutional issues. At a time when we have minority governments – which we quite often have in Sweden – and especially when we have a minority government with rather weak parliamentary support, it is particularly important that we agree on the rules of the game. Otherwise it will be very difficult. We also saw this during this parliamentary term when we did not agree on the rules of the game, in relation to what Björn von Sydow has just talked about with regard to the December agreement and the like. Last time we debated this, we raised a question about quarantine rules for the government. This is something about which we in the Green Party have exercised ourselves in the past. There has been a lengthy debate about the loss of credibility for politicians if, immediately after being in a ministerial post, you go in and deal with the corresponding issues in business. Most OECD member states have introduced regulations in this area. Now we can look forward to debating this in a few weeks' time and hopefully getting a decision on these issues. What we are proposing on the part of the KU, on which we very broadly agree, is an announcement to set up an investigation tasked with reviewing the need to further strengthen the independence of the courts in the long term. This applies in particular to the constitutional regulation of the number and retirement age of the Justice Councils, the possibility for the highest courts to meet in special order and the organisation, governance and role of the Court of Justice. I also think – as several previous speakers have said – that this is extremely important when we see the worrying trends in Europe. I'm very happy for this announcement. As regards the rules of the game in general, I am pleased with this discussion and the broad majority in the Constitutional Committee. Once again, I would like to thank Björn von Sydow and Andreas Norlén in particular, who tend to bring all of us together in broad majority agreements on constitutional matters, and that is a good thing. Finally, I have followed the debate here in this House. I got stuck on a word and it is perhaps a bit ugly to notice words, but it was a word that came up when the question of abolishing the monarchy was discussed. Mr Skånberg has just called the representatives of various parties who have been exercising to abolish the monarchy of extreme parties. There are more and more representatives of the Liberals, of the Center Party, of the Social Democrats, of the Green Party and of the Left Party who have jointly exercised. Perhaps we should have a little more open debate than to call these extreme parties.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-205	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for approval of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 8 and 9. We have more reservations than that in this report, but for time-winning, I am only calling for these reservations to be accepted. It is now time to talk about something that lies with me – and probably also more of my committee colleagues – close to the heart, namely the state administration. It is through the state administration that most of the decisions we make here in Parliament reach citizens. For us, it is vital that the administration is imbued with objectivity and impartiality and that the intransigence of officials is not at risk of being called into question. Unfortunately, that is not the case now. The fact that the administration is corrupted by official activism is perhaps not surprising when the government appoints government managers to, for example, run opinion on Twitter. We therefore welcome the committee's position to extend the criminal liability for misconduct. The Swedish Democrats would have liked to go further than the rest of the parties now choose to do. However, it is a small step along the way, and we have therefore chosen not to reserve ourselves on this matter. Nor is it enough for officials to do the right things. They must also be provided with a service to an authority that has adequate resources at its disposal and is engaged in useful and appropriate activities. In order to achieve this, we believe that the government needs to take a holistic approach to the issue of government and carry out an inventory in order to determine which authorities are not socially beneficial or whose actual tasks are overshadowed by irrelevant considerations. Authorities that are politicised, redundant or have tasks that overlap with those of other more effective authorities should be suspended or reformed. Examples of authorities that should be reviewed are the Swedish Media Council and the Swedish Institute. We also believe that the state, modelled on the Norwegian system, should review whether the activities of the Swedish Bar Association should not be fully or partly nationalised. Madam President, I would like Good governance is based on impartial officials working on appropriate authorities. However, as I said at the outset, the Authority must also have adequate resources at its disposal. Such resources can be money, but it can also be appropriate legislation. The government recently chose to abolish a well-established and well-written administrative law in favour of one who is new and even less well-written. The government regularly ignored the consultation bodies, which led to the weakening of Swedish administrative law principles rather than strengthening them and the long-established concept of public authority was abolished even though it is still included in the Swedish constitution. The new law should be reviewed and replaced by a modern, legally secure and adequate law that takes into account the principles of Swedish administrative law and provides officials with the tools they need to serve citizens best. Finally, Madam President, now that the authorities have the right staff to do the right things with the right support, it is important that supervision and scrutiny work. In order for public scrutiny to function, it is assumed that the public authorities and their representatives are open and transparent to both the public and the media. The authorities have a responsibility to be accessible, and contacts with the media should be seen as a natural part of the mission. It is primarily the Head of Administration who will ensure that that part of the mission works. It is not acceptable for public authorities that are subject to scrutiny to shut out the media or to hire public relations consultants to deal with media issues. There should be far-reaching requirements for public authorities to be open and responsive to the media and the public. We therefore believe that the government should be given the task of clarifying the requirement for transparency from our authorities and also ensuring that the authorities understand the importance of this task.
i-TrhJx9VotVwTq1XkvQCQMz	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report on public administration deals with some ninety requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. But the most important thing is that the report contains two announcements to the government. An announcement refers to more modern and clearer civil liability by extending criminal liability for misconduct. The second notice concerns introductory training for civil servants. We have highlighted from the alliance parties in the KU in a committee motion the need for more modern and clearer official responsibilities. I am pleased that the government parties in the KU have agreed to this so that there has been an announcement of this to the government. As far as civil servants are concerned, I believe that it is primarily the authorities who are responsible for their officials taking the correct decisions – this by having the training they need, by having good supervision of their authorities and by following up the decisions that they take. However, I also see that there may be a need for a greater personal responsibility that does not now exist. The scrutiny and criticism of officials by the Ombudsmen of justice may need to be complemented by a clearer accountability requirement. The review that we in the Constitutional Committee are carrying out by the Swedish Transport Agency shows examples of this as well as various cases that are highlighted in the media. Officials must take responsibility for the decisions they have taken. The announcement of introduction training for civil servants is also important. As an official of the County Administrative Board, I attended such an education in Sigtuna 48 years ago. It mainly concerned the Administrative Act. Officials of the State do not normally receive training which is important for the proper handling and handling of cases. The report contains three reservations from the Center Party. This concerns the need for public and municipal service offices. This concerns the governance of the authorities. We want more government agencies instead of transparency advice. This concerns property rights and the principle of proportionality. We want to strengthen the individual's ownership in relation to the public. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2 under paragraph 1, State and municipal service offices.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-222	Madam President, I would like We have now come to the subject of public administration. The previous speaker expressed satisfaction at the fact that the government parties are putting up for a motion by the alliance parties, which has resulted in two announcements from the committee. I do not know whether the previous speaker regrets or thinks it is good that the Left Party is also in favour of this, but, as information, we are also in favour of the two announcements that are being made. With regard to increased responsibilities for officials, it is clear that neither the committee nor we in the Left Party want to return to previous regulation. On the other hand, we do see a need to look at what the legislation looks like today. There is a risk in a slim organization that it is easy to make mistakes as an employee. If you do not have the right opportunities or the right resources to do the right things, you should not then be punished. It is important that political governance means giving the authorities the opportunity to do the right things. This is therefore an important part of the investigation that will look at this. The committee also has an announcement about introductions within the state. The starting point is that all personnel in public activities must of course be well trained for their task. There is a need for introductory education at both the state, municipal and regional levels, based on what you should work with. But there is one point, of course, that important basic regulatory frameworks for government management and public administration are well known to all. It is good to look further at the question. Public administration is more than the internal work of public authorities. It is also about the possibilities of obtaining public service and being able to obtain it throughout the country. We in the Left Party have previously exercised that we want to see an investigation into the services of government agencies throughout the country. Such an investigation now exists, which we are pleased about. However, we think it is important that we also look at the cooperation with the municipal public administration and that the investigation that is currently under way should be given an additional assignment. This will allow further consideration to be given to the possibility of combining the local service of state authorities with that of local authorities. We want the Service Office investigation to be assigned an additional assignment. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 3.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-228	Madam President, I would like The most important thing in the report on public administration is that a fully united committee has an announcement of a more modern and clearer civil liability by extending criminal liability for misconduct. The Christian Democrats have debated the issue at their congresses. The last time it was decided that it did not want a return to the previous reform of officials carried out in 1975. Nevertheless, we have been able to support the committee report on which the committee agrees. We think it's balanced. It takes on the best of responsibility and also protects officials. In its opinion, the Committee stated that the 1975 reform of civil liability was radical and resulted in a significant decriminalisation of errors and omissions in the public service. Since then, the issue of the definition of criminal liability for public officials has been the subject of discussion. It has, among other things, It was argued that decriminalisation went too far and that criminal liability should be increased. In the committee's view, increased criminal liability for misconduct would strengthen the protection of citizens' legal certainty and increase confidence in public activities. It would also strengthen the position of officials against undue political pressure, thereby helping to ensure the independence of the administration. In the light of this, the committee believes that a review of the legislation on misconduct should be carried out with the aim of extending the area of criminality. This does not mean that the committee advocates a return to the rules in force prior to the reform of civil liability. Instead, legislation should be adapted to current circumstances and provide a modern and clear criminal law protection for public activities and legal certainty for citizens. The committee proposes that Parliament announce this to the government. ..................................................... As this has been formulated, the Christian Democrats are pleased to conclude with the total agreement that exists in committee. This is important. I would also like to mention that our other audit work has made it seem natural to go this way. It is not insignificant that this tool is also in the toolbox. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a short word about the service centre, which was also visited by Mia Sydow Mölleby. She has similar ideas to me about speeding up the creation of service centers in the country. This has begun, which is a good thing. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that there is more to be done and that we can move forward faster and better. Service centres are a good way to gather the services of different authorities so that basic government services are available around the country. The Christian Democrats believe that measures should be taken to promote such cooperation in authority. Municipalities and state authorities should coordinate their basic services to citizens and businesses by cooperating in local service centres. There should be the main government actors and authorities. The police authority should be there as well as Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, in so far as Arbetsförmedlingen should exist at all. The Christian Democrats do not want to let this go. We will be watching that things are moving forward. I agree with all my reservations but choose for time winning not to claim approval to any of them.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-237	Madam President, I would like A more or less pronounced administrative policy existed from the outgoing government after the elections 2 014. There the thinking model of new public m anagement played a role. It values management after performance – often simplified, both supporters and skeptics of this governance model may say. We Social Democrats also believe, Madam President, that there was a less pronounced desire from the outgoing government to take account of the presence of the state administration outside metropolitan areas and in particular Stockholm. The law on public procurement and the relationship between the public purchaser and the contractor, who performs the assignments in competition, have also been of great importance. From our side we look with concern at what developments have become as regards, for example, the so-called New Karolinska Hospital. However, even during the previous term of office, some questions began to be raised with the previous government. I would like to point out the value base delegation that was set up in 2012 and that came to highlight other values for government and public administration as being important in relation to economic efficiency. When the government took office after the 2014 elections, another delegation, the Trust delegation, came on the plane. It was also tasked to take account of equal opportunities in its mission to balance the governance model of the new public sector. There was an element here of trust in the applicant citizens, the public, and trust from the political bodies, whether they are government or municipal bodies, in the operation of the civil service system. During the previous term of office, government policy has developed on a number of points. However, one point where the government did not come forward concerned county boards and county councils. The proposal made by the Division Committee to carry out a comprehensive county and county council summary was a failure. There was a lack of a political majority in this House for this. But, Mr President, perhaps we are still on the way to a partial change in the public division. The incoming Division Committee has moved on by making a proposal on the regional and local organisation of state bodies. The defence committee has also made a statement here, namely that the regional organisation of the public administration should be brought together in six areas, essentially based on health care. The new administrative law is a long-standing work that has been going on for almost 15 years, I remember. It has entered into force without any party political contradictions here in Parliament. It represents an increased role for the applicant in the way the management system works. A relocation of state authorities and efforts has been initiated by the government. I would like to point out something that has been up, albeit through reservations, and where colleagues in the Constitutional Committee feel that things have gone too slowly. It's about the government service agencies. However, I would like to point out that the debate on state service agencies is constantly being broken down against digitalisation. The communication of the applicant – whether a company or an individual – with the administration becomes different with a digitised service opportunity. On the other hand, however, we know what problems exist with regard to the integrity and rule of law of the data concerning a person. In this report on public administration, as has been mentioned here, there is a request from the committee to create a new civil liability with an extended criminal liability for misconduct. The Minister of Justice opened this up in an interpellation debate in this House. Colleagues have made several records of our sentences. I assume that the government will take in the committee's motives when going in with an investigation work. Let me just add – it has also come out here in several speeches – that it is not just the individual's rule of law that concerns this matter. This also applies to how the government system complies with the instructions that the government gives to the authorities, often based on positions here in Parliament. That's where the JO's briefings show recurring flaws. Here, too, several incidents that have been and that we are working with in the KU – I am thinking of the audit of the Swedish Transport Agency – show that one must be sure that instructions from the government based on the Riksdag are really taken care of by the authorities. From our side we are in favour of this. We are also in favour of pushing for general training for employees in the state administration in parallel with this. For forty years there have been various initiatives for this, as I recall. For various reasons, it has not been very good in recent decades, and it is certainly time to do this in a thorough way. Just take such a thing as knowledge of the public domain! This is tricky, and it needs training. Let me also pay tribute to the trade union ST, which has been a driving force here and rightly has had to play an active role in the committee's way of writing. Mr President, I would like to Let me point out the specific opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party on the problem between so-called transparency councils and boards and the roles of elected representatives there. Let me conclude by saying that the Constitutional Committee believes that the JO office needs to be overseen in the next parliamentary term in order for it to be updated to the social development that has taken place in the last thirty years. I would ask you to support the committee's proposal.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-250	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Constitutional Committee's report on public administration. This is, as I said, where we are dealing with the issues of official responsibility and introductory training for government officials. I support the proposal in the report. Politicians and civil servants take care of over 50 per cent of what an ordinary wage earner earns every month. That is why I and the Moderates believe that citizens and taxpayers deserve proper official responsibility. Before I had the chance to be a Member of Parliament, I worked at the Waste Ombudsman to examine the waste of tax money. It is partly because of the experience I had there and all the wastes I saw at the time that I am standing here today and think that this issue is so important. There are many reasons why the efficiency of tax money is important and that the waste of tax money is arrogant and irresponsible. I think that each of us has someone we love and care about very much and who had earned better support from society. In short, it is enough to think about them to have reason to realize that it is enough now. Exactly what our tax money is going to do is another debate. However, when we take more than 50% in taxes from ordinary people, the conclusion I draw is that what determines what quality we get out today is no longer how much money we take into the total, but what we do with the money and how we handle the responsibility we all have. That's my point. If we politicians and officials start using tax funds under the law, we will come a long way when it comes to reducing and stopping the waste of tax money. It is not possible to legislate out carelessness or stupidity, but with the realization that all people have driving forces, it is possible to steer and encourage. We must have a public system that rewards and promotes accuracy and professionalism, favours those who are good and clearly allow law-breaking to have consequences, regardless of the title of the person who commits them. I sometimes hear the question: does this not already exist today? Well. I agree that it seems strange. It's weird. In theory, you can be convicted of misconduct even today, but it is very rarely applicable, because it only applies in the exercise of authority against individuals. You can then look at the clearance percentage. It's at a low 1% – it's the same level as when it comes to bike theft. If it is applicable, then very rarely anything happens. I would also like to say that a waste of tax money is not a problem that we solve with one or two proposals. Of course, it's much more complicated than that. That's why we're not done. This is not even a complete bill. So it's not finished now. This is where it starts. However, one of the most important things we can do is to introduce proper official responsibilities. It is a question of demanding responsibility when those responsible do wrong and of allowing irresponsibleness to have consequences. Without consequences, demands and responsibilities are nothing more than empty words, and if that is something we have too much of in Sweden today, it is empty words. Too often we reward people who make mistakes by giving them parachutes when they do wrong. It can't be okay. Excluding a job by, for example, receiving three years' wages cannot be seen as a penalty. As a moderate, I don't believe in detail control. Those of us who want experts to take more responsibility must also dare to demand responsibility when things go wrong. It's not really any weirder than that. It is time for us to stop dwindling, and it is time for us to reintroduce proper official responsibilities.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-260	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for motion 2017/ 18:164, motion 3. In addition to mass return, the need to drain the corrupt and political swamp is an issue of the highest importance for the new party Alternatives for Sweden. Sweden has several serious problems built into the administrative culture. Politisation, inefficiency, friendship corruption, calllessness and unclear responsibilities are some of these problems. Let's start with politicisation. Sieps is a politically coloured organisation that acts as a propaganda institution for the EU rather than as a study institute. Therefore, Alternatives for Sweden want to close Sieps. An ever-present subject when it comes to politicisation is the official official Dan Eliasson, a head of authority appointed solely on the basis of the right party book. This whirling disaster for Swedish authorities has now been given the confidence to destroy another authority, namely MSB. Let's move on to inefficiency. New public management is a neo-liberal and completely de facto government doctrine that has been allowed to create a culture of government that is under any criticism. The number of control functions and the ever-new need for paper exercises down to the lowest level have eroded the function of the core business. Control is very important and great, but controls and evaluations without follow-up or that are counterproductive only contribute to inefficiency. In addition, the view of lower-ranking officials on professionalism is degenerated. The degree of control has completely derailed, to the detriment of core business and trust in professionalism. In addition, the costs, both direct and indirect, result from this doctrine. We move on to friendship corruption, calllessness and unclear responsibilities. The word process is a word that should reasonably be removed from the vocabulary of each authority. Processes are a rewrite to swear free from liability. By involving enough individuals in a process where the division of responsibilities is highly unclear, everyone can point to everyone on the day something goes wrong and responsibilities should be demanded. The few times heads of government or senior officials are investigated for errors that endanger, for example, national security, which has occurred twice in the near future, they get away with criminal prosecutions because the prosecutor does not take it to trial. That's beneath any criticism. Senior civil servants with the right contacts always escape responsibility. Friendship corruption that has affected Government Sweden means that competence is no longer a keyword, but the right contacts, a gender-marinated ideological position and preferably the right party book is the guiding principle. Mr President, I would like to Alternatives for Sweden will forcefully push the issue of draining the political and bureaucratic corrupt swamp in Sweden.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-269	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to comment on what Jeff Ahl said in his speech. He called for the approval of a motion for a resolution to which no one in the committee had asked for approval and which is therefore not in any reservation from either his former party friends in the Swedish Democrats or members of any other party. The claim itself deals with jurisdictional requirements for county governors. I did not hear that Jeff Ahl mentioned anything about it in his speech. I heard more a long and somewhat rather vulgarly designed tirad against Swedish authorities and against government representatives. I note that, as has been said in this debate, there are sometimes problems within Swedish authorities with compliance and competence. That is why the committee unanimously proposes to have an introductory training for all civil servants and also proposes to strengthen the responsibilities of officials. At the same time, however, I think it is important to say that the many thousands of men and women who work in the state and municipal administration on a daily basis are doing an extremely good job and also doing an important job for our country. We have a modern rule of law with extensive welfare commitments. This requires large-scale staff groups that have good competence and ability to maintain the institutions and systems that are essential for our well-being to function and for our democracy to function. Then I think it is important that we have a good and sensible tone when we conduct the important debate on how we can increase the quality of public activities and how we can increase the possibility of demanding the responsibility of individual officials who commit errors and omissions in the service so that we do not claim in a vulgar way that there is a huge swamp of abuse of power and corruption, because that is not the case. It is clear that we have problems in Swedish government – no one has denied that. But it is not the case that the Swedish state administration would be a morass of immorality, corruption and problems. I am proud of much of the work that is being done in the Swedish state administration. I want the many thousands of people who go to work every day at authorities, in the state, in municipalities, in county councils and in regions to feel that we in the Swedish Parliament see them and see the important work they do. The reforms that we are debating in the debate today in the Constitutional Committee are about further refining public activities and making them better without categorically pointing out large groups of professionals in our country as incompetent and corrupt. That would be completely alien to me. It is unfortunate if we have a political debate in Sweden with the kind of populist overtones that we have seen in other countries. It creates a polarised climate of society and debate that does not contribute to a sensible discussion of the real problems in our society. I would, of course, like to propose rejecting the request which has just been made.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-276	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that the discussion does not concern the lower officials, and mostly also those in the middle tier, but I am talking about the Heads of Government who are highly appointed by different governments. Andreas Norlén is talking about a modern rule of law. Does Andreas Norlén think it reasonable for a modern rule of law to fail to impose reasonable penalties on a head of government who has put national security at risk? Is it worthy of a modern rule of law? Quite rightly, we should criticise – and strongly criticise – the fact that both bourgeois and socialist governments appoint Heads of Government not on the basis of their competence but because they have the right party book or the right contacts. Dan Eliasson is an excellent example of such a boss where both bourgeois and socialist governments have shown full confidence in this person. Populism is a concept that is used incorrectly. Today there is great dissatisfaction among the people with the very way in which the authorities function and the inability to demand responsibility. Above all, there is great dissatisfaction among lower-ranking officials who work in the authorities, precisely because they do not feel appreciated and perceive that the operation does not work, partly because of new public management, which involves enormous costs in financial terms and in terms of taking enormous time even for people at the bottom of the authorities.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-280	Mr President, I would like to The question of heads of government appointed by the government was the subject of extensive discussions and changes during the time of the alliance government in power. The Alliance carried out reforms to recruit positions as Heads of Government in a transparent and professional manner. We introduced a basic requirement that there should be requirements profiles for all authority managers, that it is normal for positions as head of agencies to be advertised openly when they are declared vacant so that anyone can apply for such a position. We were critical of the order that prevailed earlier, where it was a preparation in closed rooms and where it could be important if you knew the Prime Minister or not if you were appointed Head of Government. The Constitutional Committee monitors every two years how the reform has had a practical impact, and we note that almost all positions as Heads of Government are advertised openly so that even those who do not have feelings in the political circles have the opportunity to apply. We can see that there are regular requirements profiles, and we can see that governments often take the support of professional recruitment companies to further professionalise the recruitment process. This does not mean that you can never appoint a person who is or has been politically active as head of authority. It is no secret that we, too, from the alliance parties, have been critical of certain appointments, but to say in general that government heads of government are not appointed on formal and actual merits are simply wrong. That is an incorrect description. I would say that even among the Heads of State and Government, it is most common that they are excellent competent and skilled people.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-284	Mr President, I would like to I note that Andreas Norlén and the Moderates, of course, bear just as much responsibility as the present socialist government for the failure of the Transport Agency at all. It is a sign of a total inability to govern authorities by available means. It may also be based on the fact that many politicians lack the skills needed to run an authority. I note that Andreas Norlén does not wish to answer questions if he considers it worthy of a modern rule of law that a head of government who endangers national security should be sentenced to punishment instead of what should be reasonable, namely prison. Andreas Norlén does not want to answer that, and that is perfectly understandable. I believe that, deep down, Andreas Norlén is satisfied with the current situation, where accountability is minimal. That since Andreas Norlén with skilfully formulated Swedish tries to make it sound like something else, the voters will have to evaluate. Dan Eliasson has now been entrusted to control X authorities. Even the former bourgeois government has shown that it has confidence in this person. Yet Andreas Norlén believes that everything is peaceful and joyful when it comes to, among other things, the appointment of heads of government. People further down in public authorities and generally in public activities are tired of current non-functioning systems. Much of what does not work today in public authorities is the result of new public management. There we politicians need to take some action, and I hope that Andreas Norlén, too, can admit that there are obvious problems with that model of government control.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-288	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jeff Ahl is obviously more aware of the scandal affecting the Transport Agency than we members of the Constitutional Committee, who have now spent a number of months deepening us in the events and conducting a large number of open and closed hearings and taking note of a large number of documents. Jeff Ahl is already ready to draw conclusions from media data. I note that I do not intend to anticipate the KU's assessment of what happened at the Transport Agency and who is responsible for it, but it will come back to the committee when we are finished with our review in June. Then, of course, we are prepared to have a public debate. It is clear that much of what happened at the Swedish Transport Agency seems remarkable. But what responsibility the government bears, which is what the KU examines, we will have to return to in the usual way. Jeff Ahl also comments on the punishment given to the former Director General of the Swedish Transport Agency. It is not up to me as chairman of the KU or as a Member of Parliament to review how the law enforcement authorities apply applicable law in individual cases. I note that there has been criticism from other officials in the judiciary who have questioned the choice of the path of criminal prosecution instead of bringing prosecution to a public court and obtaining an open trial that the public could have heard. It would have had its advantages if we had been able, in a court of law, to find out more about the responsibility of the then Director-General for the misconceptions that were apparently committed within the authority and that have been confirmed in various ways. I don't want to eat them. It's not my role. And I think Jeff Ahl should also be too good to go into individual cases that way. I note that we have a well-functioning system for the recruitment of Heads of Government. Individual appointments may be questioned, but the system as such is solid.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-300	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report 16 by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on food policy. The report contains 81 requests from the general exercise period 2017/ 18 and deals with issues such as food law, competitiveness, food control and labelling. The vast majority of the questions have been debated in this House earlier in the parliamentary term. The committee has therefore chosen to deal with these issues in a simplified way because nothing new has happened in substance. Of course, the Moderates support all their reservations, but in order not to take too much of the precious time of the House, I would just like to endorse reservation 4 on food control. As I said, this report is very similar to those we have debated before. We have also had a thorough debate on the subject less than a year ago, when the Parliament debated the proposal on food strategy. We are politically agreed to increase Swedish food production. We made that decision jointly in this House. But we do not agree on how this is to be done. The Riksdag also sent a series of announcements to the government that there is reason to mention later, when the government ultimately chose to do something completely different from what the Riksdag decided. For us in the Alliance, it is still important to focus on a good and safe food chain that will be able to continue to grow strong. In addition to good food, the safety chain must be followed all the way from farm to table through trade. Legislation is good, but it should be simple, clear and up-to-date. The legislation is for our benefit, for the food we eat to be safe and for the consumer to feel safe whether the food is cooked at home, eaten at a restaurant or eaten in the public sector. Earlier in this House, we have been talking about horsemeat scandals, when a systematic cheating that has existed for a long time in more countries than just Sweden was revealed. Unfortunately, the problem of food fraud continues. Today we know that there are systematic and organised frauds also involving products such as honey, olive oil and cinnamon. It is important to get to the bottom of these crimes and also to find links with other criminal offences that sometimes occur. As consumers and traders, we must feel confident that products really contain what they say they contain. A safe and honest food chain is important for both consumers and food producers. Security must also be recognised between consumers and producers. There, the security and security of trade play a major role. We Moderates therefore propose stricter penalties for food fraud and that the scale of penalties be raised to include prison. Crime should never pay off. Mr President, I would like to Safety in the food chain is important, and for producers, traders and consumers to feel safe in producing, selling and eating food, it is important that food control is good and safe. It should pay to be good at safety, and there should be a carrot in the system when you do the right thing. We Moderates therefore propose that food controls should be made smarter than they are today. A better dialogue between authorities and businesses is needed at the outset. We want the Authority to help to do the right thing rather than, as it is today, merely checking and making comments afterwards. We also want to introduce post-debit, that is to say that the entrepreneur pays only after the check has been carried out instead of paying a regular fee as is currently the case. The Finnish Food Authority is also on that line. Last year, an announcement was sent to the government to review this. The government has not yet come back with a proposal to make food control more cost-effective. The Swedish Food Administration's request to the Ministry of Industry to review the charge is also buried in an investigation at the Ministry under the now fairly known slogan that the issue is further investigated. Mr President, I would like to During last year's debate on the food strategy, the Riksdag decided on some general objectives for the government to relate to. One of these objectives was to ensure generally good business conditions for the whole food chain, where national deteriorations would always be well justified. Another goal was that Swedish food production should be guided by consumer demand and not by politically determined objectives for specific forms of production. Unfortunately, we now see that the government is putting forward several proposals that are directly detrimental to the industry and also go against what the legislator has decided. Swedish producers and Swedish consumers deserve better than that. There is a need for fair conditions of competition and a government that takes democracy seriously. As this is the last food debate we have this parliamentary term, there will also be a summary and a balance sheet of the current government's term of office – a term of office lined by too little concrete policy that has come too late. We hope to reverse this. Hopefully we will see ourselves here again in a year's time with an alliance government and another majority in this House.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-316	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are behind all their reservations, but for time to come I only call for reservation 6 on food fraud. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the state is carrying out sufficient efforts to ensure that food control functions adequately. In the Food Control Review Report – does the government take responsibility? the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the fact that inadequate food control records of primary producers make planning of control difficult for county administrative boards and therefore make a risk-based selection impossible. The Swedish National Audit Office also mentions problems regarding municipal control as many of the control authorities are small and find it difficult to meet the extensive requirements imposed on them. These problems in municipal control activities have been identified for a long time. These include insufficient funding and lack of resources, the lack of risk-based control and the lack of a control plan or the fact that planned controls are simply not carried out. Criticism is also expressed against the fact that the responsibility for monitoring food control is not clearly defined in the legislation and that the Swedish Food Safety Authority does not carry out in-depth monitoring with the aim of proposing improvements in control activities. The deficiencies in food control have been highlighted for several years by the organisations responsible for reviewing Sweden's control activities: Riksrevisionen, Statskontoret and the EU Food Safety and Animal Health Agency. The Swedish Food Safety Authority's own review of official controls shows the same shortcomings. But the food industry and individual companies have also highlighted the shortcomings. They call for effective official controls. Many of the large traders and food chains rely more on their own control and private control bodies than on public control. Today, Sweden's 290 municipalities are responsible for municipal food control at about 90 000 food companies. Many municipalities lack sufficient resources to carry out adequate control, and the investigation carried out by the National Audit Office shows that one third of the municipalities have less than one person for food control. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that food must be safe and that the state should take greater responsibility for effective and effective food control throughout Sweden. The county administrative boards already check that the municipalities' control is in compliance with the legislation, but by fully transferring responsibility from the municipalities to the state, the controls can be more equal and effective. According to the Swedish Food Safety Agency, food fraud is estimated to be widespread around the world. These frauds often involve several stages: primary producers, food businesses and wholesalers. In order for consumers to be able to rely on the content and origin of a product, work on controls needs to be stepped up. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the authorities must be given more resources for this purpose. The government should also clarify the responsibility for the coordination and follow-up of food control. Many municipalities and county councils are currently buying food that is illegal to produce in Sweden according to current environmental and animal welfare legislation. The Swedish Democrats believe that all food purchased in public should be produced in accordance with current Swedish environmental and animal welfare legislation, as far as possible. Small-scale slaughterhouses are important to enable an increased supply of locally produced and high-quality food. In addition, small-scale slaughterhouses contribute to shorter animal transport and local jobs. In order for more small-scale slaughterhouses to be established, we believe that the rules surrounding these need to be further simplified. Recently, the Riksdag adopted a national food strategy for Sweden. In fact, the cost situation of inputs and labour is significantly higher than in comparable countries. Nevertheless, the government believes that improved competitiveness should be achieved primarily through structural change and productivity development. Instead, we in the Swedish Democrats want to focus on simplifying rules and reducing the wage costs of small and medium-sized enterprises by transferring sickness pay to the state and abolishing the employer's contribution for the first three employees, i.e. the general salary contribution. We also want to make it easier to hire young people through apprenticeships as new forms of employment, in order to create more pathways to work and further training. Our entrepreneurial policy is very much about simplifying rules, reducing the tax burden and facilitating trade and exports. The overall objective must be to make the legislation simpler and easier to comply with. We have the ambition that Sweden will continue to be an advanced knowledge economy and a strong entrepreneurial spirit. We want to see a Sweden where it pays to work and create jobs for a better future.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-329	Mr President, I would like to I will discuss only one point in this report, but before that I note that, of course, I support all reservations with a centre stamp, but I choose to accept only reservation No 11. What I was going to mention in this debate is something that I think we are discussing far too little, unlike all the other things discussed in this report, namely water. Water is, as I see it – it is well-known, and I think we all think so – our most important food. The Alliance government therefore chose to set up a drinking water investigation. It left its report a couple of years ago – an important report, which I think the government has only partly taken care of, considering that water is our most important food. Why is this issue relevant at all today? Water can be seen as a matter of course in our country. Yes, we have an ongoing climate change. We know that in many parts of the country we have polluted areas and so on, which can affect the water that we all see as a matter of course. What is there to do? Yes, one thing that must be done, for example, is to ensure that all the municipal water supplies that exist and will be around the country have adequate protection for the water that is vital for all of us. That is not the case today. Then I will come to the next question that is important in this context. When we introduce water protection areas like this, which should be around all the important drinking water supplies in our country, we are usually trespassing on what someone owns. It is important in these contexts – and this is a call to the government – to really look at this with ownership. Someone is operating in the area. It may be a forester or a farmer, to take a few examples of activities that are often carried out in water protection areas. It is reasonable, I think, to take into account constitutional property rights when infringing an activity on land that someone owns. Ownership, which we often talk about, is constitutionally protected in our country. It is also, as everyone knows, enshrined in the European Convention and in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I think that the government should include these values in the work that is hopefully being speeded up. The drinking water investigation provides an excellent basis for further work. If this government does not do so, as we have not seen so far, we must hope that the next government does.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-337	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing food policy. We in the Left Party want us to produce more, better and more sustainable food in Sweden. Today we can see a number of problems related precisely to the consumption and production of food, which we should be trying to solve. We have major problems with cardiovascular diseases, various cancers, stroke and diabetes, which are directly related to what we eat. Much of our greenhouse gas emissions come from food consumption – about a fifth if we count on all the food we consume, which is produced in Sweden or imported. We also have a problem with the fact that we want to be able to live and work throughout Sweden, while farmers close their operations on a continuous basis. You no longer find it profitable to produce food for us Swedes. We need to do something about this, and I believe that we in this House are in relative agreement on the description of the problems. That is also why the government has developed a food strategy. We in the Left Party believe that the food strategy is a good first step. The spirit is that we will produce more, and often we also mention sustainable, food in Sweden. But we in the Left Party think it was a lost opportunity not to be more specific when it comes to producing more food in Sweden. We think, for example, that we should have included a self-sufficiency target in the food strategy. We could say, for example, that 80-85% of the food consumed in Sweden should be produced here and not imported. We had such a degree of self-sufficiency earlier in Sweden. We also think, Mr President, that it is unfortunate that it is not clearly specified in the food strategy what sustainable food really is. Sustainable food is for me and the Left Party food which, apart from being good and nutritious, also contributes to achieving the environmental objectives we have today, which we all know we will not achieve. These include, for example, food that causes low greenhouse gas emissions. Then there should be less meat and more vegetarian food. Overall, we feel it is a pity that in the food strategy we do not clearly link our ambitions with the commitments we have made in the environmental objectives system. These are some areas where we believe that Swedish food policy needs to be improved. Mr President, I would like to I support the Left Party's reservation No 10, in which we want a compulsory nutrition declaration for alcoholic beverages. Such nutrition declaration exists in the case of other foods, but not in the case of alcoholic beverages such as wine, beer and strong spirits. We know that alcohol is a very calorie food. Alcohol contains almost as much calories as fat. A tor strong contains almost 190 calories. A glass of wine contains about half as much. A drink contains almost as much calories as a big strong one. There is little talk about this. There is also little talk about the sugar content of alcoholic beverages. I think it's simply because we don't know about it. We think it is great that we have a restrictive alcohol policy. We know that alcohol consumption on a large scale is harmful to society and public health. But it would also be good if we could obtain clearer information on alcoholic products in trade about their nutritional content. Then it would probably become clear that they are not very healthy from a nutritional point of view. This, too, is one reason to be moderate with alcohol. This isn't news. This is something that the Swedish Food Administration has previously stated. The European Commission has given a concrete mandate to the alcohol industry in Europe to present proposals on how to explain the nutritional content more clearly. The alcohol industry has been very reluctant in this, but now they have finally come up with a proposal that there should be a QR code, which one should be able to scan with mobile or similar. But it is far from as effective as having a robust and good nutrition declaration as it is on other foods. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 10, which deals with this very point. Several have mentioned that we need to deal with the food fraud. That's right, isn't it? It is unacceptable and outrageous that there are companies and individuals who make billions of profits from cheating with food. It may be that they notice about meat, mix drinks or dye vegetables. There are plenty of examples of such things. We must have more preventive measures here. Better food control has been mentioned. Of course, controls need to be better and more comprehensive. Although this is something that should be financed through fees, I am nevertheless surprised that Runar Filer from the Swedish Democrats previously talked about more resources for better food controls. Runar Filer, how can you do this with the major cuts in your draft budget? This is an activity where the link to financial crime needs to be seen overall. If we become better at attacking economic crime, we will also discover more of food fraud. But it is also important that there are severe sanctions when cheating with food. That is why we in the Left Party have long been calling for breaches of the Food Act to be punishable by prison sentences. This was the case earlier in Sweden, until 2006, but unfortunately the then government and parliament tore it up. Now a proposal with tougher penalties for food fraud is under way, and that is something that we in the Left Party wholeheartedly welcome.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-352	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing food policy on the basis of 80 demands for exercise from general exercise time. Of course, it can get a little sprawling – and multi-faceted is perhaps a better word in this context – because food policy can be about so much. It also shows the debate we have had so far today. I would like to start with the discussion we had on the food strategy and on the importance of ensuring good business conditions throughout the country. It was one of the announcements made. It is not directly linked to food production but has to do with business conditions at all. On the Liberal side, we believe that green tax exchange, which lowers taxes on labour and entrepreneurship and increases taxes on things that are climate and environmentally unfriendly, is also a way forward. Food production is particularly important for rural entrepreneurship. There are many other measures that are important for entrepreneurship in rural areas. We have talked about infrastructure, transport, broadband, public services and so on. That is why there are many parallels to the next debate here, which is about rural policy. I'll make two points, I think. One is also linked to the discussion on the food strategy. In the development of the targets there, the starting point for the Liberals was consistent. It was about food policy having a market and consumer perspective. In reservation 3, we highlight this once again and are clear that the Liberals believe that food production, whether conventional or organic, should be driven by consumer demand. That is tantamount to the previous announcement. Since there is an announcement, one might think that this is breaking open doors, but since so many other things have happened on this issue, there is reason to repeat it. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be approved. This is not about us being against organic farming or any other type of cultivation. Organic farming has great added value that we are fully aware of. But it is simply a question of what principles to have on the market. We see it as very reasonable that it is consumer demand that should guide and not politically decided quantitative targets for production and consumption. If you harden the whole thing and assume that consumer demand is 100% organically grown, it is also very reasonable for the market to meet such demand. Mr President, I would like to The next point I was going to make is also highlighted in an announcement that we discussed when we discussed the food strategy, namely that it will be easier for consumers to do the right thing. The report contains some sections on labelling. Liberals do not have a specific proposal there, but I have to stay on a general level. Here, too, it is a market and consumer perspective. I and the Liberals believe that relevant labelling is crucial if consumers are to be able to make active and informed choices. It should be easy to make such choices when shopping for food. Market-driven labelling and certification of goods we think is a good thing. We have discussed the climate issue here, and it is of course extremely important in the context of food. We are open to introducing mandatory climate labelling for certain products, such as certain types of meat. We would like to see more restaurants also addressing this with market-driven labelling. Of course, the origin marking, which can well be said to be a basic type of marking, is absolutely essential in this context. Liberals have two claims relating to labelling. This report deals with them in a simplistic way, but, of course, we stand by what we have said in the past on this issue. This applies, in particular, to the request for the labelling of fish and shellfish. Mr President, I would like to We have discussed food fraud, and that is, of course, something that needs to be combated. From a consumer point of view, this is pure fraud, so I fully agree with those who have said that it is an issue that we must continue to work on. I turn to the climate issue again, and just as Jens Holm mentions, food production and food consumption account for a large part of emissions. It is perhaps difficult in these contexts to nullify this; it is not the lowest hanging fruit, if you say so. What is perhaps the lowest hanging fruit when we talk about food, however, is the food we throw away. It's food we produce, buy, carry home and then throw. Here we have emission factors that do not really lead to anything, and Liberals are pleased that we are now working on the issue of food waste at EU, national and local level. Many municipalities collect food waste to ultimately produce biogas from food waste, for example. That is good in itself, but the benefits for the climate would be much greater if there was no food waste at all. So it is not possible to compensate by making biogas out of it, even if it is extremely positive. Food waste is therefore an issue that we, the Liberals, think it is essential to overcome. It is also about labelling and information for consumers, so there too we have a consumer perspective.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-365	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot in what Lars Tysklind said that I can agree with, but I think he is going too far when it comes to putting the responsibility over with the consumer. The food sector is an extremely large sector that affects a variety of goals we have in society, not least our 16 environmental objectives. These are headline targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, clean water, biodiversity and such things. Since we know that what we eat affects our ability to achieve the goals, I think that we politicians must be courageous. We must be able to say that if we consume more in this way, we will be able to achieve our goals more easily. I simply think it is a good idea to have politically set targets for, for example, greater production and consumption of organic food. I also think it is a good thing that we set political targets to reduce meat consumption and promote vegetarian food – without going in and pointing at people's plates and saying: You must not eat that. Nevertheless, it is a question of promoting a certain development, perhaps at the expense of something else. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we have set political targets, Lars Tysklind. There are targets for emissions to be reduced by 70% by 2030, so that's where we run politically. Why should we not be able to control the food we eat in a similar way? Do the Liberals really think that consumers themselves can bear the full responsibility for this important sector? Does politics not have a role to play?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-369	Mr President, I would like to One might well ask this question, but I think it was clear from my speech that politics has a certain role to play. However, I am convinced that Jens Holm and the Left Party do not have the same attitude as me and the Liberals as regards the level at which that role should be played. Of course, as Liberals, we are sometimes told that we have an almost naive belief in the individual and his ability to make relevant and conscious choices. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that there are some basic regulations on food safety, animal welfare and the whole of it. There, society rules a lot. Then labelling is there to enable the consumer to make informed choices, and of course information is needed to know what all the choices lead to. I think, after all, we are quite in agreement. I think it was good that Jens Holm still said that we should not go down and poke on the plate, so to speak, so we certainly agree on that. We believe very much that we will have increasingly conscious consumers who will make good food choices. With regard to the sectoral objectives we discussed in the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee, where we sat with both, we reached the conclusion that the transport sector would have an objective but that in principle we did not think that sectoral targets were a particular priority. However, with regard to the transport sector, which is so large and crucial to achieving the target of net zero emissions in 2045, we thought it appropriate to have a target. However, we did not have it as a general approach.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-372	Mr President, I would like to Then I understand a little better how the Liberals reason, but I still think it doesn't really make sense. There are very large emissions from the transport sector, but what we eat also generates large emissions and major environmental impacts overall. Our nearly five million passenger cars account for about 10 million tonnes of emissions. Some 10 million tonnes of emissions also come from food consumption, i.e. the food produced here in Sweden and not least the food imported into Sweden. So it is about the same size, and that is why I find it odd. For the transport sector, we set clear targets to be followed up, and there are instruments. We in the Left Party think that the targets could have been more ambitious, but it still feels like the transport sector is being taken care of. However, when it comes to what we eat, it is consumers themselves who are going to solve the whole issue. I think that Sweden's consumers would think it was good if we were clearer about what we think politically about more organic food and less meat and more vegetarian, to take just two examples. Why are you prepared to point with your whole hand and steer politically in the transport sector, but not in the food sector, Lars Tysklind? After all, I do not think that I received a completely logical and coherent answer.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-375	Mr President, I would like to I probably did not expect the Left Party to think that the Liberals are always perfectly logical, but it is perhaps due to a certain ideological difference in this and the starting points. There are a lot of other instruments in this, in most areas. Of course, what I mentioned about green tax shifting also applies to food production. Things that are environmentally and climate unfriendly should be able to tax harder. There is a phasing out of fossil fuel in production, we have proposed an emission tax and so on. So there are other instruments in this context, and it does not seem very useful to continue the discussion on why we have one type of target for the transport sector but not for others. It can be traced to every sector, because the only sector we have is the transport sector. The clear motive was that it is such a dominant sector and that we saw that a change was needed there to achieve the objective. With regard to the question of telling the consumer that it is good to eat organically and so on, I actually think it feels very easy for a liberal to hand over to the consumer himself to decide what is good and not good to eat. On the other hand, I think that there are a lot of people who want to shop organically – and that there are more and more people. The argument is often that not everyone cares about climate labelling, organic labelling and other types of labelling, but there are very many who do. There are also increasing numbers. I do not think, therefore, that we should describe consumers as victims in these contexts, but they are an important factor in our transition to environmentally and climate-friendly food production.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-378	Mr President, I would like to I support all the Christian Democratic reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 7. We are debating the report on food policy today. It was good that last year we adopted the objectives of the food strategy and that we in this House decided to develop agriculture instead of phasing it out, which has been the current target for many years. The objectives of the strategy are that we should have a competitive agriculture, that profitability should increase, that agriculture should be strengthened and that our self-sufficiency in food should increase. These are good words; many see it as positive. But it can't end there. We know what the milk crisis has meant for our country. Five dairy farmers quit every week in 2016. And it has continued in that way. The amount of milk weighed is decreasing and dairy imports are increasing. In the rest of Europe, the amount of milk is increasing, but unfortunately here in Sweden it is decreasing. Unfortunately, we do not see that the objectives of the strategy have had any impact yet. There can't be a lot of talk and fine words. Here, lubricants must be used to facilitate and strengthen profitability. How? We Christian Democrats want to reduce diesel tax and take a firm stand to ease the regulatory burden. Do you know that a cow farmer who also has growing crops has about 800 rules to relate to? The question that needs to be asked is: When will the farmer have time to take care of the animals and milk the cows? Another point is that we need to change the environmental code so that food production is not classified as environmentally dangerous. Look at the differences between the Nordic countries in how we view food production. In Norway, food production is important to keep the countryside alive. In Denmark, it is an export opportunity. In Finland, it has a purpose for preparedness. H is home in Sweden, food production is an environmentally dangerous activity. There must be a change in the environmental code. It was written at the time when politics wanted to phase out agriculture. Now we have the objective of the food strategy to develop agriculture. Then it is about time, my friends, that we change it so that it is environmentally friendly. Mr President, I would like to Every year honey pours in that should not be called honey in our country. This imported so-called honey may be diluted with both rice syrup and rice sugar. Although it is ensured that it is one of the world's most counterfeit foods, very few analyses are made of the honey imported into Sweden. We Christian Democrats believe that there would be calls for better origin labelling of honey and also for authenticity checks on imported honey.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-386	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment MJU16 on food policy. I call for all reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report. I would like to start by talking about our most important food. It is a food that we take for granted. It should only be there when we need it – our drinking water. For us in Sweden it is obvious that it should be there when we open the crane. We can live without food for several weeks, but water only lasts for a few days. The water we drink today is the same as the dinosaurs drank millions of years ago. V thaten is available in abundance, m a there is only a small part that can be used for drinking water. The largest amount of water is salt water; only 3 percent is fresh water. In Sweden, with some exceptions, we have good access to drinking water, and we are not thinking about how we use it. Each person in Sweden uses an average of 140 litres of water per day. We use it not only for drinking but also for cooking and for showering, washing and flushing in the toilet. It does not include water to produce food, clothing and energy, etc. If it were to be included, each person consumes 6,000 litres of water per day. However, we in Sweden are fortunate. Sweden is at the top when it comes to access to high quality water. Mr President, I would like to Protecting our water is an important task for the authorities. In the budget proposal for 2017/ 2018, the government states that drinking water is a social function. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management decided in 2016 that 28 sites and facilities should be of national interest for water supply in order to strengthen and clarify water supply interests in community planning.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-393	The Finnish Food Authority shall be responsible for national coordination of drinking water in relation to adaptation to climate change and crisis and contingency planning in relation to the supply of drinking water. In February, the Government commissioned the Finnish Food Authority to form a national drinking water council that will consist of both regional and national authorities. The assignment means that the Swedish Food Safety Agency will develop its coordinating function. It's an important mission. The demand for clean water in the world b is estimated to go over supply by 40% in 2030. This is due to a combination of climate change, human impact and growing population. Clean water is a human right. Yet, 800 children under five die every day because of dirty water, lack of toilets, and poor knowledge of hygiene. Several progress has been made and the share of clean water available is increasing. Yet, 10 percent of the people on earth still lack access to clean water. Mr President, I would like to For us to have sustainable and competitive agricultural and horticultural production, we need to have access to varieties adapted to our climate and the climate changes we can see ahead. We need access to suitable varieties throughout the country. It is therefore positive that the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences can use 20 million to build a competence centre for plant breeding. Domestic plant breeding may adapt the plants to the plant protection products authorised here. Plant breeding, for example, has removed the need to use straw shortening agents. Developed plant breeding that meets the need for suitable local and regional crops for the whole country means that we get a variety of crops. Then we do not need to import and bring in crops that require plant protection products that are not authorised in Sweden. The government's view is that when approving new varieties on the market, an assessment should be made based on the overall characteristics and effects of each individual crop, regardless of the plant breeding technique used. Mr President, I would like to The Government's goal is to increase Swedish food production and create jobs and growth throughout the country. Sweden's exports of food are important for increasing food production and creating new jobs. Today, we are exporting only 20% of our food. If we look at Sweden's total industry, we can see that 80% is exported. Maybe it's because we've seen ourselves as an industrial country. However, it is beginning to turn around. For example, interest in our pigmeat is great in China. On Monday, a delegation from China visited a pig farmer in my municipality to find out about our pig farming on the spot. They focused mainly on our high level of food safety, traceability and disease control practices. Of course, it was also important that the pig had the knob left, because it is a delicacy in China. Also other parts that we in Sweden ratar, feet and meat from the head, they are interested in. With a country approval, an export agreement with China would, according to LRF's estimate, be worth SEK 150 million per year. The government is making historically significant efforts to increase food exports. This year, 48 million is being invested. Business Sweden is tasked with employing food export managers in three priority markets: North America, Japan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. The aim is to create more exporting food businesses and to help create the right network and knowledge to export. Mr President, I would like to The positive thing is that confidence in the future in the green industries is stronger than in a long time. This presents the LRF in the Green Entrepreneur report – business opportunities across the country. The outlook for meat production as broiler, pig and nut was strong while it was weaker for lamb and game meat. The importance of origin on the Swedish market has increased in favour of the Swedish-produced market. This increased interest has had a positive impact on demand and prices. The price of Swedish beef is well above the price prevailing in the EU. Since 2014, Swedish beef prices have been significantly higher than before. Since 2010, Swedish prices have increased by 51%, while EU prices have increased by 20%. One reason is that consumers choose Swedish meat in stores. The labelling Meat from Sweden, together with an increased awareness of antibiotic use and animal welfare, has played a major role. Profitability, confidence in the future and planned investments in beef production have been strengthened by the fact that production costs in Swedish agriculture have increased considerably more slowly than in the past. Mr President, I would like to That something has been produced in Sweden has become a kind of proof that it is a quality product. There are several arguments for buying Swedish raw materials, the first being that the consumer knows how the food is produced, the second that our meat has a lower climate impact and the third our low antibiotic use. Consumption of Swedish goods also contributes to supporting Swedish sustainable agriculture and increasing jobs in the food industry. Another reason for our high quality is our work on food safety, where controls are an important part. Companies have a responsibility to ensure that their products are safe and that consumers are not misled by, for example, information on packaging. The responsibility of food control is to control how businesses live up to the legislation. Food control gives consumers confidence in food and increases the competitiveness of businesses. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has been tasked with developing support for public food control in the country through competence-enhancing measures. It has also been tasked with continuing the simplification work. In particular, the focus should be on measures that make it easier for companies to do the right thing and on how the authority works with service, efficiency and response. Mr President, I would like to When you go to a shop or restaurant you should be able to trust that what you get is what is on the packaging or menu. Unfortunately, however, this is not always the case. Foreign meat is sold as Swedish, the par machine has not been near Italy and so on. It is often a question of replacing expensive foods for which consumers are prepared to pay more for less. You're tricked into paying for something you don't get. In March, the Government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag for more effective sanctions in the food chain. It proposes amendments to the Food Act and to the Feed and Animal By-products Act. The proposal tightens the penalty for serious crimes. The penalty is proposed to be a fine or imprisonment for two years. It is a welcome penalty, as food fraud not only fools people with money, but also risks their health.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-410	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Marianne Pettersson carefully and only in her speech did she mention our most important food, water. In this context, I have a question, and that is how the part of the government that is a Social Democrat takes a view on the property protection that we have in our constitution, in the European Convention and in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As Marianne Pettersson quite rightly said, we need water protection areas, but then we are trespassing on someone. The public has the right to do so. The reasonable thing is, I think, that the property protection that exists is taken into account when these infringements, which are often necessary, are made in such a way that the owner of something and whose activities may be made more difficult or even have to end, receives compensation for it. What do the Social Democrats say about this?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-412	Mr President, I would like to In the case of interventions where restrictions on the use of property are made when establishing a water protection area, the possibility of compensation is regulated. I assume that the government will monitor legal developments in the further work on the further establishment of water protection areas. The Minister for Rural Development has been quite clear here in interpellation debates that property protection should apply and that people should be replaced.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-414	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that reply and will follow up on that, because it is possible to list quite a large number of cases, in relation to the cases mentioned by Marianne Pettersson in her speech, where compensation that people have thought was reasonable has not been paid.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-415	Mr President, I would like to When restrictions are made for people, it is important that they receive compensation. But drinking water is of great and crucial importance to society, as the water shortage we have had in recent years has shown. In view of the climate changes ahead, water shortages will become even more common. It is therefore important that the issue be regulated.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-416	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech on food policy. Food is important. Eat should be, or you die. But it is also about what you eat for food, when you eat and in what way and in what context you eat food. After all, we have agreed on a number of rules in this House regarding food policy, and my question is a little about the democratic part of food. About a year ago, we adopted the food strategy in this House. Then we also sent a number of announcements to the government, which I mentioned in my previous speech. One of them was that Swedish food production should be guided by consumer demand and not by politically determined objectives for specific forms of production. Nevertheless, we currently have a government that sends out directives on how production is to be done, what consumers are to eat and how in the public sector this is to be done. My question, Mr President, to the representative of the Social Democrats is therefore: what do you think of the democratic forum Parliament when the government does something quite different?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-421	Mr President, I would like to I assume that the question is about organic farming and the target set in the 30% action plan. Now there are other goals that we will also achieve, including a non-toxic environment and a rich agricultural landscape. There, the objective of organic production also has its share. It creates value growth and jobs around our country. That is why it is important to point the way towards what you want.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-423	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for the non-answer I just received! One of the announcements that we also sent from this House was to ensure generally good business conditions for farmers. When we talk about organic, we can see that organic production is struggling with a number of challenges. On the one hand, less food is produced on a smaller surface and, on the other hand, emissions are in many cases greater than in conventional production. There is also a misconception that all organic food is good for the climate, but that is not the case. Many times things that are conventionally produced in Sweden are better than imported organic food. I therefore believe that the argument that this would contribute to environmental objectives is not correct. I am concerned that the government's policy is not based on science and that it is also contrary to what the Legislative Democratic Assembly has expressed. My question is, therefore, once again: why does the government not do as the legislature has decided?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-428	Mr President, I would like to It is not true that organic production always gives less. Attempts have shown that you can get the same amount on the same surface. There are shared scientific opinions about how good or bad organic and conventional farming are. I don't think any of us here can say who owns the whole truth. But that organic and conventional farming complements and learn from each other is important for us to continue to increase Swedish production.
i-GJhvLxqCtzyfGQKqynhKZZ	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating MJU18 rural policy. I support reservations 4 and 10 and also support the committee's proposal. The report deals with the EU's agricultural policy, the food strategy, herbal foods, horse breeding and some other things. These are important issues for our rural areas and our agricultural businesses. That the government is serious about the whole of Sweden's life can be read in the Government Declaration: It will be possible to work, run a business and get community service regardless of whether you live in Visby, Vårby gård or Vittangi. ..................................................... We can also see this in the policy pursued during the previous term of office. We have made great efforts to ensure that the whole of Sweden will live. We have, among other things, taken decisions on a food strategy, the first, where the Riksdag supports the overall goal of increasing food production in Sweden. Of course, it would have been better if everyone had agreed on the whole proposal, but we did not succeed in doing so. The fact that we agree on the objective is a good thing, and the industry is also very pleased that we have pointed out the direction and that we have the issue on the agenda. The government has set aside just over 1 billion to implement the food strategy. However, we are only at the beginning of this work, and we need to do more. I cannot stress enough how important it is that we increase food production in Sweden. It provides jobs in rural areas that cannot be moved. It also increases our ability to cope with the crisis situations we may face. Today, our food supply depends too much on imports. We need to change that for many reasons. Our production in Sweden is good, and the demand for Swedish products is increasing in Sweden and in other countries. Let's take care of it. The government has therefore decided on an export strategy to promote exports. This is important, because there is great potential here. We need to increase our knowledge of the Swedish added value so the demand for our Swedish food increases even more. We have also commissioned the county administrative boards to develop regional food strategies and have offered regional development responsibility actors to carry out operations at regional level in accordance with the strategy. They have also done so together with private actors. The Government has allocated SEK 142 million to support the implementation work. Coordination and exchange of experience is important, and therefore the Minister for Rural Development invited all of Sweden to join forces in 2017. Mr President, I would like to The government has prepared an investigation on sustainable tourism, A country to visit. The tourism industry is one of the fastest growing industries in Sweden, and part of the strategy is to combine meal tourism with food strategy objectives and efforts. It is important for sustainable growth and employment throughout the country. The government also works with new industrialization. The Swedish food industry is part of the manufacturing industry and meets the same challenges as other industries. Here, companies need to continue working with collaboration, digitalisation, sustainability, competence and innovation. Mr President, I would like to The report also contains an announcement on simplifications in the administration of support for the community in rural areas, following a motion by Eskil Erlandsson and others. Mr Erlandsson claims that we have reduced the compensation and complicated the rules. It is not true that the government should have reduced the compensation for association life, because the government has increased the funding for association life by 227 million since 2014. We have also increased the funding for outdoor life by 20 million. I do not therefore know what the honourable Member and others are basing his motion and his announcement on. Simplification is a good thing, and it is something we are constantly working on. At the same time, we politicians are very good at making demands on what to achieve in order to get this support. That equation is not always easy to get together. And that it would be special in rural areas I do not quite understand, because when we simplify we do it for everyone. The government has also allocated a great deal of money to study associations in this year's budget, almost 500 million. The study associations play an important role in Sweden's rural areas as they are present throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democratic-led government has made it clear that the whole of Sweden will live. A parliamentary Committee on Rural Development was therefore set up, and it presented a study with 75 proposals. After that, the government has delivered a rural bill that implements most of these proposals. For this, the government has committed 11⁄2 billion in 2019 – 2020 and thereafter 400 million annually. It is about investments in business, innovation, knowledge development, education and culture, and Norrland support gets additional money. There are initiatives to digitise businesses, technological development, better financing for rural businesses and better conditions for the tourism industry. In addition, there is an emphasis on remote education, knowledge centres for rural development and a great deal more. As you can hear, we are investing heavily in rural areas, and we are making them because we are serious about being able to live, operate and live everywhere in our elongated country. Previous budgets have included a billion-dollar broadband investment, increased camera surveillance opportunities, many more places in regional adult vocational training and a knowledge boost that will be expanded with more than 100,000 training places by 2021. What we see in Sweden's rural areas is a major skill shortage in all sectors, both in the public and private sectors. It is sad that the Alliance and SD oppose the proposal to introduce higher education skills in vocational education and training, because it would have made a difference for rural areas. We have also increased the state presence throughout the country and made a permanent investment in commercial services in sparsely populated areas. We are in the process of reviewing the travel allowance, and we have made a library effort throughout the country. These are important measures for Sweden's development and for rural areas. What I have now told you about can be added to the 35 billion we have spent on welfare during this parliamentary term. Welfare is important for rural areas. If it doesn't work, you can't live, live and work there. There we have the dividing line in Swedish politics: We want to develop the Swedish model, not phase it out through major tax cuts.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-457	Mr President, I would like to Even this debate on rural policy and MJU18 is a bit of a replay of the debate we had in this House a year ago. The report deals with 87 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise and concerns, among other things, the EU's agricultural policy, the implementation of the food strategy, the food industry, food trades, GMOs and pollinators. Last year at this time we all wondered what would happen to the proposals of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development. Now we know that the government has put a rural bill on Parliament's table, and treatment will only take place in a few weeks' time. Without prejudging this debate, we can see that concrete measures are absent and that the proposal itself is more a visionary strategy paper than anything else. This is a bit of a new order for the Swedish Parliament. Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 6 on meadows and pastures. It is a proposal that ensures a vibrant countryside and strengthens the cycle and sustainability of nature. Policies need to be constantly developed, and rural policy is no exception. There are major challenges to urbanisation, but there are also major challenges in making rural services work the same as before but with fewer people living there. Sweden is a large country with long distances. It does not look the same everywhere, but the needs and conditions are different depending on where in the country you are. This is nothing wrong in itself, but rather an asset for a population-wise small country like ours, far up in northern Europe. I am going to talk a little more about entrepreneurship than previous speakers have done. Entrepreneurship and jobs are a prerequisite for a country to flourish, including in rural areas. A prerequisite for rural development and strength over time is job creation, creating the conditions for business and the labour market, and always giving high priority to this. The conditions for entrepreneurship and housing require both good infrastructure and service. Some issues are concerned with the policy of the rich, but many have a bearing on how local policies look at the labour market, which is at least as important. We want more companies to be able to start, grow and develop in Sweden. The rural area consists largely of agriculture and forestry. These are driven by individual entrepreneurship and should be treated with respect. Basic ideological edge stones for us Moderates are ownership, responsibility and freedom. We protect the right of public access, but the countryside is not a common good and farming must be respected. Agriculture and food production are something we are proud of, and it should be easy to be an entrepreneur even in these industries in Sweden. Sustainable farming of land and forests is crucial to preserving the biodiversity we already have and to ensuring that the environmental requirements we have set ourselves are complied with. Biodiversity depends on grazing animals to keep meadows open. Today, unfortunately, there are too few grazing animals to achieve what we all want. Open pastures are important, not least from a cultural historical perspective, and then it is not good enough to call agriculture environmentally hazardous activities. Our farmers are our heroes, and they should be appreciated, not punished. Rural and urban areas do not resist each other, but are each other's forces through a close exchange, especially in a country as small as ours. The challenges facing rural areas are also its strength. Entrepreneurship and the ability to solve practical barriers have been firmly established for generations. We believe in people, and we believe in the drive that has existed for generations in rural areas to do the very best on the basis of the conditions at hand. Green industries can contribute as a growth engine in Sweden. The whole of Sweden should be able to live, but then the whole of Sweden must be able to stand on its own feet. We Moderates see rural opportunities and development potential, and we want to paint them with a positive picture. There are too many others who paint a negative and dark picture of the future of rural areas. The Alliance believes in rural areas, and we want to give rural areas the best conditions for growing and flourishing with the momentum that already exists. We believe more in general solutions than in targeted contributions to identified static and defined areas. Agricultural income is largely governed by the EU's common agricultural policy, and it is important that Sweden is a strong and constructive voice in future negotiations. We can see that 5% of the EU population works in the agricultural sector, but 40% of the EU budget goes to agriculture. This is not sustainable in the long term, even if we reap the fruits of agricultural activity. In the same way as previous governments, we assume that current and future governments are working on seeking alliances within the EU. The EU family is important, and there is a fear for the future, when the UK has chosen to leave the EU. We need independent and competitive European agriculture. If agriculture is to be competitive in the future, it is not possible to back out of the future. We need modern plant breeding, which will be an important key to producing both smarter food and more food in the future. It is not good enough for a government that is weak on the GMO issue as has been done during this term of office. There is a need for a government that can show a clear Swedish focus in the field in order to eventually create crops that are adapted to Swedish conditions. Mr President, I would like to I also have to conclude this speech by stating that the government is putting forward several proposals that are directly detrimental to rural areas rather than helping them to stand strong in the long term. More competitive conditions are needed, and long-term rules of play are needed to meet the challenges of the future. Rural policy deserves a much wider and broader debate than we have had here today. The reason I have not contributed to this is that I do not want to anticipate the debate that we are going to have in a few weeks on the rural bill. I look forward to that debate and the tension it will have, and I hope that we will be able to discuss more concrete proposals from the government than we have seen so far.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-476	Mr President, I would like to The report contains a declaration that the national coordination of regional efforts to implement the food strategy should be stepped up. I think it's a strange announcement. Normally, the Alliance and the Moderates think that they should reduce government governance – they are usually quite clear about that. The notice also states that it is important for regional work on the food strategy to be coordinated in a way that meets regional conditions, as it is different across the country. That is exactly the way it is: things are different throughout the country, and of course we want to take advantage of this. My question is, among other things, what do you think the government has not done but should do? And what do you think about government governance? I don't really understand, because it goes a little bit against what you think. You also say that you think there are various regional actors who have taken the baton. This is not really true, because the government has commissioned the county boards to do this and has also given the opportunity to the regional actors with regional development responsibilities to carry out efforts. In fact, most counties do this jointly, together with the regional actors – the LRF and so on – from the private sector. I do not quite understand what you are looking for with this announcement.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-481	Mr President, I would like to I thank Monica Haider for the questions. Our announcement on the cooperation of the county boards within the food strategy is about coordinating the work done on many county boards. It is not done on all county boards, and it is certainly not done in the same way on all county boards. What we are saying is precisely that coordination needs to be synchronised by the state. It has given a mission, but not a whole, to the various county boards. In order to make this food strategy go all the way down to get a whole from farm to table, it needs to be better coordinated than today. It should be produced more – we all think so – but you produce very different things in different parts of the country based on the fact that the county boards act in different ways. We believe that one of the keys could be to coordinate the whole thing.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-484	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit remarkable that the Alliance thinks it should be done equally everywhere, given that there are very different regional conditions. I don't really know what it is that should be coordinated, because the efforts probably won't look the same depending on whether you live in northern Sweden or in southern Sweden or in mid-rural areas that you and I come from, Åsa. I therefore find it a little strange that this announcement should be made at all, because there has been a mandate from the government to develop regional food strategies based on the strategy we have at national level. The point is that it should be different, that it should look different and that there should be different measures in the regional food strategies depending on the strengths and weaknesses that exist. For example, I come from a dairy village. If I look at Kalmar County, they have much more chicken producers and so on. Then it is clear that the measures do not look the same.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-485	Mr President, I would like to I don't think it's as complicated as Monica Haider says it is. Today, there is no national coordinator for the food strategy. That is exactly what we are saying; it is as simple as that. We want a national coordinator to synchronise the strategy on all of Sweden's county boards. We also think that there are shortcomings in the government's policy on companies and jobs. We think it is a problem that you do not see competitiveness when you decide politically on things that hamper Swedish competitiveness and make us weaker not only nationally in the different parts of the country but also in relation to the European market. A national coordinator could sum up this in order to try to do something about it. Hopefully we'll change the government in the fall. But if we do not, I hope that a national coordinator can actually point to the shortcomings of the current strategy and the measures that we can take to ensure that Sweden's rural areas flourish.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-488	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are behind their reservations, but for time to come I only call for reservation 2 on the EU's common agricultural policy. There is not only a rural area in Sweden, but we have many different types of rural areas in our country shaped by thousands of years of climate, nature and human culture. Sweden has unique environments that together contribute to the diversity of rural areas that characterize our country from north to south. It's really an exciting journey you make when you go from land to land – from north to south, from east to west. But it is not only the natural environment and its resources that shape rural conditions, but the people who live and work there. Rural policy is also not just agriculture and forestry. Rural industries, which include energy, hunting, tourism and fishing, are based on people's needs. Rural communities and their businesses contribute with important employment and tax revenues that contribute to vibrant and viable communities and municipalities. The open culture landscape, which characterises many parts of Sweden's rural areas, needs viable agricultural businesses and grazing animals. When grazing animals disappear, the land grows again, and important ecological environments disappear. The links between the open landscape and a vibrant countryside are closely connected. For us in the Swedish Democrats, this is all connected. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's membership of the European Union is a tough competition for our Swedish farmers. Swedish farmers compete in the internal market that the EU entails. It is therefore hardly unknown to anyone here in Parliament that since the entry into force of the EU in 1995, apart from higher taxes, excessive national legislation on the environment and animal husbandry has put agriculture and food production at a disadvantage. From the fact that we have been largely self-sufficient in food, we now have a self-sufficiency rate of barely 50%. Some claim it is smaller. In addition to this, Sweden has a bureaucracy that in its desire to be the best in the class is often more zealous than other EU countries in terms of the implementation of EU legislation. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the instructions to the relevant authorities to make it clear that the authorities will implement EU directives and apply EU regulations in a way that provides the best possible conditions for competition. We are opposed to a further transfer of power to the EU, but yet it is important that we get back as much as possible of the nearly 40 billion that we in Sweden are paying into the EU colossus. It is therefore important that we try to influence the EU's common agricultural policy in a positive direction for Sweden. With regard to EU membership, we in the Swedish Democrats want Sweden to renegotiate the conditions for the European Union with the long-term goal of returning decision-making power to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Swedish farmers compete in the same European markets as their neighbours in Denmark. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that it is reasonable that the level of taxation for different inputs is the same. The tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry is such an important difference in competition, and we believe it needs to be reduced to the same level as in Denmark – 7 øre per litre. The Swedish Democrats believe that it must be easier to run agriculture without abandoning high ambitions in terms of the environment. All policies and practices of government must be based to a greater extent on promoting competitiveness, growth and the active use of land in Sweden. We are opposed to the government's current and the survival of the countryside's repressive policy and are strongly critical of the continued increase in taxes on petrol and diesel and the reduction of travel allowances for work commuting. In a departmental spromemoria, the government proposes to introduce a road wear tax for heavy goods vehicles over 3 1⁄2 tonnes. Regardless of the type of tax at a distance that the government intends to introduce, it will be placed on top of already existing taxes. A road wear tax would hit that part of Sweden that has the worst roads, the longest distances and the most limited alternatives. We in the Swedish Democrats are therefore opposed to such a road-wear tax.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-505	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the report on rural areas. I commend our reservations. The report deals with the EU's common agricultural policy, regional implementation of the food strategy, pollinating insects and more. It is a subject that we debate every year. Many of the reservations have been simplified. It is a subject that engages. When we debated rural issues and Category 23 last autumn, I noted that it has gone from a subject that has been somewhat obscured to a subject that has become a central part of the political discussion and not only specifically under the slogan of rural areas but under many other subject areas where one sees that one must have that perspective. We have seen an increase in the inflow of television and radio programmes that deal with the countryside, not to mention all the podcasts that appear. We also see an increased interest in food and where it comes from. As a result, we are now on the move. Interest in political products has also been increased. We have political products such as the Rural Committee's report which will soon become a bill that we will be debating in a few weeks' time here. We have had the food strategy. But it is still the case that the rural perspective is sometimes obscured. There are fundamental differences and conditions between cities and countries that make it important to analyse the development of society from a rural perspective and give organisations, authorities, companies and associations the opportunity to take it into account and be able to work so that we get a level playing field. We all want the whole of Sweden to live. A viable countryside with a functioning ecosystem is a prerequisite for society as a whole. Rural areas with their products as food and other important raw materials are crucial for the whole country, both city and country, to function. In that case, residence and entrepreneurship must also be possible. It is not just about traditional green industries when you talk about rural areas. You should be able to live and work there no matter what. You have to be able to be a preschool teacher, have schools and be able to go to the doctor. I think the government has taken it seriously and also most of the Swedish parliament. We have produced the Rural Committee's report, which now becomes a rural proposal. We have taken the issues seriously and raised them and not just looked from the traditional perspective. We see a shift from how it has been with many rural residents where many have been involved in food production and forestry to getting ever larger units. We get a mechanised agriculture and large-scaleness to meet today's demand for yield. Fewer and fewer people are working in agricultural industries. As a result, fewer people can be supplied with traditional green industries. At the same time as the shift, we also open up opportunities for other new industries. For example, not many people thought that a barn would be able to grow fish on land far away from both the sea and the lake. But aquaculture is here and growing. It is growing so fast that we do not always have time to get the legislation that might be needed to make the new one possible. We take this seriously and try to do it. We see new industries within the blue industries that can both do environmental services and have food production. It is, for example, a question of growing algae, sea prunes or mussels. These industries are here and have been given support to enable them to continue. We see that tourism is flourishing. We have developed a sustainable tourism strategy to see how we can develop it more. We see new companies finding new niches. Today, we have a larger part of the population that does not have a natural connection to rural areas. Who would have thought only 20 to 30 years ago that we could have tourism in the cold or to walk in the woods and look at moose? But there we are today, and it offers new opportunities. We also see that some of the large-scaleness and simplifications sometimes bite our tails. We have a modern agriculture which, in some parts, may knock out what we need for agriculture, such as pollinators, which many have mentioned here. Extensive farming with monocultures means that there is simply too little food for our pollinators. There the government has taken steps forward. It has seen this and given a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to compile what efforts are being made in Sweden to just reverse the decline of wild pollinators and see how with cost-effective methods we can change the development. The day before yesterday the interim report was submitted which states that several species have disappeared but also that there are a lot of efforts being made. Now we will investigate who is effective and how to move forward. We have 280 species of pollinating bees, and one third of them are threatened. What was seen in the report was that a great deal is done in the agricultural landscape and other urban environments. But there is not a single effort in forestry. That's where I think we'll have the next part to get on with pollinators. We have things that need pollination even in the woods. We see in the report on rural policy that efforts are being made for meadows and pastures, which are also important for biodiversity. There, the government has changed and contributed money. There is 255 million for the rural development programme to enable further efforts to be made in the field of meadows and pastures. This initiative is also linked to advice and management methods so that we can change this. Here, too, we will need to move forward. Sometimes you might have to go back and see how we did before. As Monica Haider said earlier, we see how money has been injected into civil society and society, which is a large and important part. The report claims that money has been withdrawn and that it is more difficult. Rather, we have contributed over SEK 200 million to sport and sports associations from 2014. We have increased the money for outdoor organisations by over 20 million since 2016, and we have major investments in study associations. I do not understand the Alliance's criticism of this and what they want to do. If you look at outdoor life, you change that money not only in people coming out and seeing animals and nature but also in health. We had a seminar here in Parliament a couple of weeks ago that showed a clear connection. People who move around in nature are also healthier and live longer. Each invested krona is exchanged four or five times in reduced health costs. There are many things that the government has done that are good for our rural areas. Let's get back to work. We also work together across other party boundaries. I hope that we will have a good and lively debate that will take up more parts of this when the proposal comes based on the Rural Committee's report.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-525	Madam President, I would like I support all of the Centre Party's reservations about the report, but I choose to accept reservation 5. I will begin by stating that the current government is even good at presenting strategy papers. It is sometimes good at setting up visions and goals for things. But what I am calling for, Madam President, is concrete action and something that makes a difference in reality. In the recent past, we have also received a proposal in this area in which one could expect that there would be something that would make a difference to the subject area, namely rural areas. What was in the bill that we are going to discuss in a few months? Yes, a goal and a strategy, but nothing concrete, nor so in the report we are discussing today. I therefore choose to ask for the approval of Amendment No 5 in the report. I do it because the easiest way, as I see it, to make things happen is for a government to use its own authorities when it wants to do something. Madam President, I would like We have recently adopted a food strategy in this House. In it there are targets identified by the government. So it is not the House that has pointed them out. It is then expected that the government will want to meet the goals it has set itself. Then what's the government gonna do? Of course, it will use the authorities at its disposal. What, then, does the government choose to do? Now I am forced to quote, which is always boring, but I choose to do so in this context. The Government writes in the regulation letter to a number of selected authorities that they will describe how the agency works systematically to integrate the goals and purpose of the food strategy into its activities, how stakeholders are involved and describe the communication efforts made to make the work visible. Madam President and you representatives of the government! Why do you not choose to simply say as I have said in a motion from the Center Party? We believe that the authorities in this area should use words such as: But one chooses from the government to tell the authorities that they should describe what they are doing. The government is not saying that the authorities are going to help us meet the target set, in this case in the food strategy. And what is the goal? Well, it's that we should produce more food in our country.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-532	Madam President, I would like We are right to agree in here that you should be able to live and live in the whole of Sweden. But we probably do not agree on how to achieve this objective. As we in the Left Party see it, if the whole of Sweden is to live, we must ensure that we have a well-functioning public service even outside the urban areas. We must have well-functioning communications and public transport even in sparsely populated areas. Broadband must be fast and of course work throughout Sweden. We must also ensure that there is a demand for the products produced, for example, by farmers in sparsely populated areas. There is a great deal of potential for improvement here, and I believe that we have a great opportunity to both achieve better conditions for businesses in rural areas and opportunities to achieve environmental objectives are not being achieved today. Unfortunately, we have had a few decades in Sweden when we have been intoxicated with some kind of liberalisation acid. Liberalisations and privatisations have been ruffled as a mantra and considered to be the solutions for most things. It may sometimes work in big cities, but in rural and rural areas we see clearly that liberalisation is not a very good idea. What has happened, for example, to the liberalisation of pharmacies? We can see that we have received several new pharmacies that establish themselves in the cities but no new ones in sparsely populated areas. On the contrary, accessibility has become less accessible there. It is the same problem with the liberalisation of the rail network. It is clear that private train operators want to run on the busiest lines but not on rural lines, where the basis and opportunities to make a profit are not as good. There will also be extra pressure on SJ, which must compete with private operators. We see that, as a consequence, we have had closed train lines, closed night trains and so on, when private operators can pick the raisins out of the cake. We have also seen that maintenance of railway tracks has become incredibly much worse when maintenance responsibility has been privatised and posted to various companies. We in the Left Party believe that it is now high time to take political responsibility to ensure that the whole of Sweden can live. We have exercised this in a rural motion which is partly referred to in the report. We demand, among other things, 100 percent good broadband throughout Sweden. We require well-functioning public services, for example through so-called service offices in sparsely populated areas where several community functions can be combined under one roof. We are pleased that we have received increased funding for rural retailers, i.e. supermarkets in sparsely populated areas, so that you can continue to have an Ica- or Konsum store, or whatever it may be, in sparsely populated areas. One should be able to get some support for this from the state. With regard to the train communications, it is extremely important that we control SJ, which we own together, with a clear mission: SJ will operate throughout Sweden, and it is not an end in itself that SJ provides a high return to the state. The aim should be that SJ is a well-managed company that delivers good train traffic at reasonable prices for those travelling by train in Sweden. We want more green public procurement, which will not least benefit small producers of food in rural areas. If we place higher demands on the environment and on animal welfare, it will be easier to meet these requirements for Swedish producers. Hopefully, then, we can get some reduction in the import food that way. In the Left Party we have a strategy for how the whole of Sweden can live. The beauty of the strategy is that it will not only be better conditions for individuals and businesses in sparsely populated areas, but we will also have the opportunity to achieve all environmental objectives. We do not achieve these with the decisions and instruments that have now been taken. Madam President, I would like I would like to refer briefly to the two declarations contained in the report. As I have said in previous debates, I think that these are examples where the bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, are entering open doors. For example, they call for simplified support for community life in rural areas. It is just as Monica Haider from the Social Democrats said here before: We have increased the funding for associations in Sweden, which of course also benefits associations in rural areas. I also do not quite understand the point of the announcement on the regional implementation of the food strategy. The food strategy must be implemented on the basis of the different conditions that exist around the country; I thought we agreed on that. Madam President, I would like In this report, we in the Left Party also address the EU's common agricultural policy, where there are major problems with subsidies going in the wrong direction and going not least to intensive livestock farming, which leads to animals being mistreated and greenhouse gas emissions rising. We in the Left want to abolish the so-called animal subsidies, and in general we want to reform the EU's agricultural policy so that it stays entirely within the framework that nature sets for us. There's a lot to do there. Madam President, I would like I would like to support our Amendment No 7 on herbal foods. I will not repeat everything I said in the previous debate about the importance of having a strategy for reducing meat consumption and investing in more vegetarian food. This reservation is actually based on a motion from the Moderates and Sofia Arkelsten which we think is very good. In the exercise and in our reservation, Sweden must be able to become the world leader in research, development, production and export of vegetarian and vegan food. Imagine if we could agree on that vision here – what an enormous potential we still have in Sweden to develop more sustainable food from the plant kingdom. I think that there has been some development in Swedish politics, Madam President, in that the committee report responds to this motion and our reservation, among other things, as follows: our committee maintains its previous position that one way of reducing emissions from food production is by changing consumption habits with more vegetable crops. I think it is at least a good first step that we all agree that we need to consume more vegetable and less meat. I want to thank the Moderates and Sofia Arkelsten for that exercise.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-549	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to take any line here at all, but then Left Party representative Jens Holm started on vegetarian diet, reduced livestock production and targeted instruments, and then I also got started. I have previously called for reservation No 6 on meadows and pastures, and I thought I should hear a little with Jens Holm who is behind the environmental quality goals how he thinks we should meet the biodiversity target on meadows and pastures with fewer grazing animals.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-551	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Åsa! Our vision in the Left Party is that we should eat less but better meat. Better meat can come just from animals grazing on meadows and pastures. The problem in Swedish livestock farming today is that most of the animals are reared under factory-like conditions and therefore do not go outdoors grazing and keep meadows and pastures with great biodiversity open. To make it even clearer, I can tell you that we in the Left Party have pushed through increased efforts on grazing animals on meadows and pastures. These efforts are referred to in this report. It is more than 200 million SEK.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-555	Madam President, I would like Farmers are our heroes. I think we should appreciate our farmers more than we do today. It is the peasants who make sure to keep our landscapes open. They are the ones who make sure that we have food on the table, and they are the ones who, in many ways, make this country roll in crisis situations. I am concerned when I hear the arguments of the left-wing parties precisely in relation to livestock production in Sweden, and I think that what Mr Holm is saying in this is a mockery of all those who make sure to keep our landscapes open. There is a lack of policy when one does not see the link between grazing animals, biodiversity and food production in Sweden. I also think, like everyone else in this House, that animals should go out as much as possible, but we live in a fantastic country with amazing seasons. Just in the winter it grows badly outside, and then animals need to be stabled indoors in many ways. According to the rhetoric of the Left Party, this would not be possible. I am directly concerned about the future of food production, food security and food security, not only in Sweden but throughout the world, if livestock production is constantly reduced. I wonder how Jens Holm sees the cooperation that they have with the government that, just as Jens Holm said, has invested in this.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-559	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we in the Left Party, together with the government, are increasing efforts on meadows and pastures for grazing animals. The Moderates dismiss that bet. I asked a specific question as to why the Moderates did so but did not receive an answer. I find it a little strange that Åsa Coenraads is concerned that a united committee says that we need to consume more vegetable and less meat to achieve the environmental objectives we have set ourselves. I do not really know what the Moderate policy in this context is. Our reservation in this area is based on a moderate motion from a moderate Member of Parliament and is that we should invest in plant-based food, i.e. vegetarian and vegan food. Surely more people than the Left Party have understood the point of eating less but better meat and investing in plant-based. It seems increasingly that Åsa Coenraads and a few more crampedly stay in a small meat corner that receives less and less support in the general debate.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-562	Madam President, I would like I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only call for reservation No 8. A professor from Stockholm University said a while ago that the countryside is like a litter area. He saw that coming. No one can be more wrong than the good professor, because if there is something in the countryside, it is precisely the future. We can only think of all the food that needs to be made somewhere. The countryside is fantastic. We are debating rural policy in this House. I took part yesterday in an interpellation debate with the Minister for Rural Development. These are very laudable proposals which the Government has presented and which the Government presented here yesterday. However, it feels a little hollow when the government talks about more broadband initiatives when what already exists today is cut. I'm thinking about Sonja down in Småland. She is over 90 years old, and she tells us that once Telia has cut off the copper wire, she has to go to a stone to get coverage, and there it can work sometimes and sometimes not. Then one wonders: What are you thinking now? I think of all those who drive to and from work and maybe go with their children to preschool and to football practice. It's all right when you live here in Stockholm or in other big cities, because then you can go by both bus and metro and more. But the government has increased the tax on fuel four times since the 2014 elections. I am thinking of all those who are now afraid that the responsibility for roads, which the Finnish Transport Administration currently manages, will be passed on to residents along the way. I could go on. I do not think it helps just to talk about that things will get better, but I think it is important that it also shows itself in practice. We're talking about the whole country living. Are we serious, or is it just a rhetorical mantra that we repeat every four years? Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a living countryside with farms that believe in the future. Then it is important to have signals from the public. A man called me a while back. He told me that he had attended a seminar at a government work. When he asked them what to eat, it turned out that chicken would be served. He then asked where the chicken came from and got the answer that it did not come from Sweden. He called me and asked me if I thought this made sense. Of course it doesn't make sense! I wrote to the minister responsible and pointed out, among other things, that it is demoralising and perceived as double standards when the authorities responsible for issuing rules on food production and for controlling compliance with these buy in food produced in a way that they themselves cannot allow. I waited a while, and then the answer came. The work that had been invited to lunch wrote that it had now been decided that all the meat used should come from Sweden. I think this is a very important signal. I also think it is important that municipalities and county councils follow suit. Some municipalities, including my municipality of residence Ödeshög, have done this. You are very careful to try to buy food and food from Sweden, with the rules that are here. Madam President, I would like We see that the vital bees and insects that perform pollination are decreasing in number. An important function in this context is the honeybees of beekeepers. In order to support beekeepers – given the important role of their bees in pollination – we Christian Democrats believe that there should be a review of how activities should be supported and developed. This morning I was in an LRF-related context and then met a female entrepreneur from Östergötland who talked about the belief in the future that she has in rural areas. She talked about how it spreads in the company to try to deliver food from the countryside to Stockholm, among others. However, she also pointed out that we politicians need to improve competitiveness and reduce the regulatory burden. I heard the same thing a while ago when I attended Milk Day here in Parliament. There were about 100 dairy farmers here. The panel included representatives of, for example, dairies, banks and ICA. They also pointed to us politicians and said that we must do things to improve the competitiveness of farmers. I think it is important that we move from words to deeds.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-580	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I am quite upset when I hear you say that we are talking about rural areas and rural conditions every four years. The current government has not talked about anything else this whole term of office– I messed up I don't know how many things we've already done. For example, we have set up a parliamentary inquiry into rural areas. I don't really understand what you mean there, Magnus Oscarsson. Then you talk about that we must believe in the future and that farmers and entrepreneurs in rural areas must also believe in the future. Marianne Pettersson mentioned in her post that LRF has produced a report called Green Entrepreneur – business opportunities throughout the country. It shows that the future of meat production is strong in the case of broilers, pigs and beef but that it is weaker in the case of lamb and game meat. This report comes from the LRF. Do you have any opinion or insight other than what the LRF has gained from all its entrepreneurs? I have to admit, I don't quite understand your claims.
i-D39CsHJrMmjgM9Y3zS5B4x	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for your question! I don't think you should be so upset, Monica. If there's something we politicians are pretty good at, it's talking. In this case, we have spent a lot of time just talking about politics and not doing much. I think it is extremely important that we move from the talk stage to the do stage. Speaking of the figures to which you refer, it is of course the case that production is increasing, but in some parts we can also see that it is decreasing. As I mentioned in my previous speech, for example, milk production has fallen. In 2016, five dairy farmers ended. The number of litres weighed in has decreased. So it cannot be said that our country is doing very well. Self-sufficiency is also decreasing all the time. I don't think you have to be so upset to see this. The important thing, Monica Haider, is to go from just talking about this to trying to do something too. Many farmers say when I meet them that it's great that we have a strategy and that we have set these goals but that they now also want to see that this makes a difference at home on barns or where on the farm it can now be.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-587	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson : This time you won't get away with talking about dairy farmers and milk production! I wasn't talking about production. I was talking about LRF producing a report on the future of the green industries. I wasn't talking about production itself or whether it would increase or decrease. You and I both know exactly what it looks like in milk production and that this is not good. You're saying we haven't done much. I do not know how many things we do that I listed in my speech. However, this does not have an immediate effect on the farm yard of the farmer or at home with me or anyone else where we live, but it takes some time. Developing entrepreneurship is a longer process. I'm a little upset that you always bring up the situation of the dairy farmers... no matter what question you get, you refer to this. That's not what I was talking about. The dairy farmers are having a difficult time, yes, but it is going quite well for a large part of the green industries. This is because the demand for Swedish food is increasing, both here in Sweden and elsewhere.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-591	Madam President, I would like Speaking of the figures that you, Monica Haider, bring up, I don't think it's at all strange that I highlight things that I notice when I'm out among farmers and that it's not at all as good as you want to claim. For example, they point out time and again that competitiveness is not the same as for European farmers. If you don't see this, it'll have to stand for you, Monica Haider. But when I'm out, they always point to things like the diesel tax, which is now raised. I see the rule problem over and over again. There are 800 rules for a dairy farmer if he or she also engages in crop cultivation. 800 rules! Surely it is time for us to look at this and try to reduce the regulatory burden? I certainly do not try to paint everything dark, but I still have to say what I hear. I can't just say that everything is fine, because it's definitely not. I wish, Monica Haider, that you came out and greeted these farmers. There are a lot of people out there who say it doesn't work very well. That's how it is. I stand behind the goals that you set; I was with myself and negotiated on this. The food strategy is great and we are now saying that we want to develop agriculture instead of dismantling it. You also mention things that we – piece by piece – want to improve. But again, the important thing is that we come from just talking in this House to people and entrepreneurs all over Sweden noticing that we are serious about what we have said. That is what I was trying to talk about in my small speech.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-597	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I mentioned examples of a unilateral focus over a few decades on liberalisation and privatisation. It is the sparsely populated area that has been the great loser of this. Not much money is made by opening pharmacies in sparsely populated areas, and no pharmacies are opened there. Not a single new pharmacy has been opened in sparsely populated areas, but it opens pharmacies in the big cities – this after the Christian Democrats and bourgeois parties have liberalised the pharmacy monopoly. The maintenance of the railways has not improved, especially in sparsely populated areas, since it liberalised and privatised the responsibility for maintenance. Several lines have been withdrawn after the liberalisation of the responsibility for rail transport in Sweden. The train companies simply want to drive on the lines where they make the most money. These are examples of the fact that rural areas are the great loser of liberalisation policy. I think it would be interesting to hear about the perspective of the Christian Democrats. Don't you see the problem between town and country? Can you not see that there are great losers when liberalising as you have advocated and actually done? Then I am also interested in what Magnus Oscarsson says about the dairy farmers and the importance of buying more Swedish food. I think that is a good ambition. But then you want Swedish food to continue to be produced in a reasonably animal-friendly and environmentally good way? I would therefore like to ask: is it the Christian Democrats' policy to continue to have grazing requirements so that cows can go outdoors and graze at least in the summer?
i-G2NgaYXUpYGU98n5BvTpoo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for your question! I'll start with the pharmacy. It is clear that when we liberalise, there were things that got much better. When you now have pain in your head you do not have to wait for the pharmacy to open up, but you can go to Ica and buy headache medicine. Much has improved, such as greater accessibility. Of course, some things may not have turned out the way we hoped. I think you should be honest and say that. Some pharmacies have moved from the countryside. We find this problematic, and we should look at how to get pharmacies to rural areas. Then you take up the grazing requirement. As you may know, we are very keen that there should be a lot of animals in our country, that we have meat production, that we have milk production. We also want you to listen to what the industry says. The dairy farmers say: Yes, we have some concerns, for example, competitiveness is important to us. But we have the grazing requirement that we are not getting any money for today. There is no grazing requirement in Finland, where farmers receive compensation through EU support. Today, Swedish farmers do not get it. We think that this should be reviewed. Most people say they'll have all the cows out because it's so important. But the point is that you have to see how the farmers will get compensation for having the cows out.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-605	Madam President, I would like I think that is a clearer response from the Christian Democrats. What is really to be reviewed? What exactly is it that you want? Should the cows go outside and graze or not? You know very well that we have a grazing requirement in Sweden, for a long time in southern Sweden and for a little shorter time in northern Sweden. As I interpret you, Magnus Oscarsson, the Christian Democrats want to release the bait requirement. You should be able to do what you want. Is it not obvious, then, that many cows are not allowed to go outdoors to graze? What is the point of having large milk events here in the Swedish parliament and talking about Swedish milk production being so good, environmentally friendly and animal friendly when you remove perhaps the most important thing, that the animals should be able to behave naturally and have it reasonably good. Once again, I received the answer from Magnus Oscarsson that the liberalisation of the sale of medicinal products and the pharmacy should be reviewed. Yes, it is welcome that the Christian Democrats want to review this, but it is about two different things. One is the possibility of selling over-the-counter medicines in trade, and it was not a huge controversy, I think, that you can buy Alvedon at Ica or Konsum. The second thing is the liberalisation of the pharmacy monopoly. It has opened new pharmacies in the big cities, not a single new pharmacy has been opened in sparsely populated areas. What do the Christian Democrats say about that? Can you not see that there is a built-in conflict when liberalising? The companies want to open pharmacies where the largest market and the greatest opportunities to make money exist. Then perhaps we politicians need to take responsibility for the whole of Sweden to live and make sure that there are pharmacies even in sparsely populated areas.
i-WWUqgf6bu56jg46H4iBaF7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for your question! I think it's great that you bring this up with how the farmers have it and how the dairy farmers' situation is, Jens Holm. I wish with all my heart you'd been on Milk Day. Then you could have listened to some stories. What many dairy farmers are critical of is that one thing has been decided in parliament, but then it has not been followed up and what it means for the dairy farmers. I wish you'd come with me or go by yourself and visit dairy farms. There are several of these not far from Stockholm. Then these dairy farmers can tell us what it looks like and how important it is that they get some money for the grazing requirement. We often talk about added value and that the farmers should have added value. In this case, they see no added value. Many dairy farmers have left. In all other European countries production is increasing, but at home in Sweden it is decreasing. Of course you have to see, what's the deal? We often talk about competitiveness. But then you have to see what competitiveness is. We believe that the grazing requirement should be reviewed. It is important to look at how the farmers are doing. Of course, most dairy farmers will have their cows out, but we must ensure that farmers receive compensation for having the cows out.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-616	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the opinion of the committee and, therefore, for the two declarations contained in the report. One of them is about better coordination of regional efforts to implement the food strategy. I'll get back to that. It has been said here that there is a rural proposal and follow-up to it. We will have a discussion about it in a few weeks' time, so perhaps we should not speculate so much about it. I can only say that there was a sharp proposal in the rural proposal, and it was about horizontal objectives. Otherwise, it was a collection of assessments that could be regarded as a strategy. For us in the Liberals, rural policy is – if one can use such a word at all – about every person's ability to have power and responsibility for his own life. It does not differ from any other area. No matter where you live, this is the case. From this point of view, rural policy is not as special as it may seem at times. It is important that the policies in place create opportunities and conditions that, in turn, create confidence in the future. There has been a discussion about faith in the future here that has been quite interesting to follow. However, it is important that we do not, from politics, create a picture of rural areas where we do not have the opportunity and the prerequisites for a future belief. It only creates negative spirals. If we are to have something called rural policy, we must create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas and that it should be possible. In the previous debate, I mentioned that there is a lot about infrastructure – of course roads and railways, but there must also be a well-functioning broadband connection if businesses are to be run. This priority was given to the Liberals in their draft budget last autumn. Otherwise, it is about public services and opportunities for education and so on. When we discuss rural areas and rural entrepreneurs, there will naturally also be a great deal of discussion about the agricultural industries. That's quite right, isn't it? It is interesting how this develops in many places. Rural areas, however, are much more important in terms of entrepreneurship. Not least, the tourism industry has become an industry that has grown a lot in Sweden, and so also in rural areas. More and more it is discovered how multifaceted entrepreneurship in rural areas has become. Instead of companies doing just one thing, they now have many legs to stand on. The hospitality industry has become one of these important bones. However, it must be borne in mind that the tourism industry currently employs some 170 000 people, many of whom are in rural areas. The tourism industry has an export value well over 100 billion and is one of our major export branches. This, of course, benefits the whole of Sweden, not least the countryside. It is also important to bear in mind that cities and countries are interdependent. You have to see that whole. We're talking about the service in cities, but not everything can be in every place. In rural areas, it is also important for recreation and public health for those living in urban areas. The starting point for us in the Liberals is actually based on a general policy that is good for everyone. Unfortunately, the current red-green government has greatly increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, which certainly does not benefit rural development. High taxation on labour and entrepreneurship discourages the development of businesses and the creation of jobs. That is the case no matter where you live in the country. This affects the countryside and all parts of the country equally. Perhaps it will be particularly difficult in rural areas where there are usually fewer companies to rely on. Many of the companies are also small businesses. Madam President, I would like It has been found that the differences are large around the country and that it is different in different places. You have different conditions. Then, of course, the solutions must also differ. As I mentioned before, it is in areas such as public services and education that adjustments must be made depending on how people live and what can be arranged remotely and so on. The food strategy has been addressed in the past as well as how we are to coordinate it regionally and locally. The great and important thing for us is to spread good examples. Because even if the solutions are different in different parts of the country, they are not different everywhere. If you have the same kind of conditions in one place and have solved everything in a good way, it is good if it can be spread to another place. You don't have to invent the wheel many times. For us Liberals, this is the most important thing in this particular announcement. The report deals with two more of the Liberals' priority areas. The common thing for them is that it is about biodiversity. The preservation of meadows and pastures is essentially also about strengthening the competitiveness of agriculture. The people who work to preserve meadows and pastures really need to be paid for their work. Environmental measures create the conditions for sustainable food production first and foremost, which is important. But open landscapes are also created that are important for biodiversity and for strengthening natural and cultural values. The rural programme provides compensation for the conservation of pastures, mowing meadows, forest pastures, mosaics or grass-poor land, as it is called. Here society gets a huge profit for relatively limited funds through compensation for what we usually call public goods. It is the same thing as what I am talking about: compensation for the preservation of the land. I therefore think that the delay that has taken place in the last few years in the payment of these subsidies is a major problem, and that is totally unacceptable. When you come out and talk to the people who work with this, you hear that the problems are unfortunately still not solved. It is not about that big money, but it is very important for small businesses. So it is not the large sums that are important in this type of aid, but that the money is actually paid out to those who have done the job. The open landscape is, of course, important for biodiversity. It's no wonder. But it is also important as a growth factor. An open landscape is a factor when you want to settle down and have an activity in rural areas. It has been clearly demonstrated that it is a positive factor in itself. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that we have reason to be very concerned about the reduction in pollinating insects that has taken place. It will have almost incalculable consequences for the ecosystem. Here we have a common challenge where all good advice is expensive.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-635	Madam President, I would like Today, we are going to debate the report NU12 by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is based on the motions that Members have signed during the general period of exercise. I am very pleased that the movements are so many, but I am also very surprised to see so many return year after year despite the fact that we here in Parliament have already, at the Government's proposal, both considered and decided exactly what has continued to be discussed in the motions. It is, for example, a question of the government investigating the conditions of the tourism industry. This investigation is done and is called A country to visit – A comprehensive policy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism industry. The investigation has been submitted to the Government for further consideration. Another example is exercise that the public market-supplementing venture capital should be used more closely with private capital in a fund-in-fund solution. It has been investigated, and we in this Parliament have already made a decision on the government and capital bill to do so. However, the largest exercise flora today is about the important work on regulatory simplification and processing times. The Social Democrats share the view that entrepreneurs should not have to spend unnecessary time in contact with authorities or on managing permits, providing information or trying to understand how they should do the right thing. That's why the government is working hard on this issue. The Swedish Companies Registration Office has been commissioned to introduce digital management of annual reports. More resources have been invested in the digital platform Aktivt.se to develop this business. The Government invests in digitalisation work in particularly regulatory industries. The first was the restaurant industry, and now the tourism industry is moving forward with companies in the hotel and event areas. In addition, it works further to shorten processing times with authorities and find wise ways to implement new laws and regulations. Following Parliament's announcement last year that the Government should take appropriate measures to ensure that the authorities that companies come into contact with set clear deadlines for their processing times, the Government gave the Swedish Growth Agency this task. The Swedish Agency for Growth points out that experience shows that care should be taken to set limits on processing times. They can leak into the organisation as control signals and affect the work of individual administrators. For example, if it is decided that 80 per cent of all cases should be handled within eight days, employees usually solve it. Unfortunately, this can be done at the expense of the case that passes eight days and that is downgraded in favour of cases that continue to live 中. ..................................................... The Government is working on the basis of the Swedish Agency for Growth's report on the issue so that the processing processes and processing times will be more efficient, clearer and shorter. To then again this year choose to give the government announcements on this particular issue does not seem serious. And although everything should go faster, further developed and prioritised, it is surprisingly being followed by several parties in opposition to lower levels of ambition in terms of resources for the proposals we are going to deal with here today. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to endorse the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and reject all reservations. We choose not to follow up our own reservations either. As I have said, I think they are breaking wide open doors. Madam President, I would like The most important policy can do is listen and take on board the challenges that businesses bring forward. I will mention the three challenges I most often face during my company visits. Number one is always the need for competence, as also shown by the Conjunkturinstitutet's cyclical barometer. Over 40% of companies experience labour shortages. This is also the biggest obstacle for our small and medium-sized enterprises that want to grow. Of course, it is important to invest in education. The Government's knowledge transfer will provide about 100,000 new places of education when it is expanded and completed in 2021, including a large and important university of applied sciences expansion. We want to upgrade the professional programmes so that more people apply to them. The Government has also given the assignment to develop more short and flexible courses for more employees to be able to update their knowledge. There are still over 100 000 jobs that cannot be filled because you do not have the right skills. That is why this is important for real, both for companies and for those who acquire that skills and now get jobs. Number two is usually the housing shortage. How often do we meet entrepreneurs who tell us that the housing shortage is hampering growth? Therefore, the largest investment in housing policy is also made in 20 years, with SEK 6 billion annually. According to Boverket's forecast, 74,500 homes will be built this year. Personally, I would like to see the proportion of wood built increase. Number three is infrastructure and broadband. Without communications, Sweden stops. The government has invested in a substantial expansion of broadband in rural areas through an investment of 5.45 billion. No one can run businesses, healthcare or schools without broadband with fast connectivity. Resources have also been invested in the rehabilitation of roads and railways. I am very pleased with the government's investment in night trains to Jämtland. Madam President, I would like It brings me unsearched into the hospitality business, which goes like the train. It is an important industry which constantly shows better figures and which employs 170 000 people from Abisko to Österlen. Guest nights are increasing almost all over Sweden, foreign visitors are increasing and export revenues are increasing. The winter we have had in Åre has been the best in a long time, and not only for companies. For those of us who love skiing it has been snowy and good. Next year I would like to welcome you to the Alpine World Championships in Åre and the World Skiing Championships in Östersund. We know the importance of organising major international events, which is why the tourism industry and major events are also part of the government's export strategy. In view of the proposals made by many opposition parties on the tourism industry, I am surprised that they want to reduce the budget for promoting Sweden through Visit Sweden at the same time. Madam President, I would like Our companies have had a strong development. This applies, in particular, to job growth and productivity growth. This is crucial for our competitiveness. More people work in industry today than nine years ago. 13,000 more are employed compared to 2014. More and more companies are moving home from low-wage countries. Industrial investment in Sweden is the highest ever. The industry is anything but basically gona, as former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in Davos. The government has taken over 80 measures to secure the skills supply of companies and to support automation in smaller companies. We invest more than SEK 500 million per year in innovation projects together with the industry. Madam President, I would like We also want more companies to have the opportunity to grow. According to LRF's profitability barometer, 2017 was the strongest year for Swedish small businesses since the measurements started in 2012. The government has introduced growth support so that more people will dare to do their first job. All self-employed workers who make their first job can receive a discount of up to 63 000 in the first year. Another challenge for our small businesses has been too long paydays. Now the largest companies have supported a voluntary code which means 30 days as a rule. We want more companies to start, not least women. That's why we're improving insurance cover. Dare to take the leap makes it easier if there is security. We will also ensure that the period of construction of sickness benefit is extended to 36 months and extended to include limited liability companies. Madam President, I would like Today we can see that 250 000 more have a job to go to compared to 2014, of which 150 000 are employed in business. The government has already achieved the Alliance's goal of having more than 5 million people working in 2020. Today we are also seeing growing companies throughout the country. Future confidence in Swedish industry is the highest in 20 years, and industry investments are at record levels. In dollars they have never been larger in 80 years than in the last two years. These are encouraging results for Sweden, but it is not possible to stop for a second. There is much that our parties agree on in the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on what needs to be done for improved business. I think that's a strength.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-659	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. Some work very well. Sweden and the world are in a boom. This contributes to demand and jobs both in Sweden and in other countries. At the same time, Sweden faces a number of challenges and problems in the short term and also in the longer term. I think it's important that we politically manage both of these things at the same time, both what works and is good and what doesn't work and isn't good. But politics must also have the ability to solve the more acute problems that people and voters are experiencing, such as the widespread security crisis we have in the country, in order to be able to discuss the somewhat larger challenges for Sweden in the long term. As we move towards an election, it is time to sum up this term of office and sum up Stefan Lövven's footprint in industrial policy. I am not going to question either his intentions or those of the Minister for Economic Affairs, but I think it is appropriate to criticise some of what the government has done and does. Decisions and decisions have gone in the wrong direction for companies and entrepreneurs. It has made it more expensive to hire, raise income taxes and reduce RUT and ROT. These are some examples of deterioration for companies. There are other areas where proposals have been made and then they have been withdrawn, for example on exit tax and 3:12 rules. This has created unnecessary uncertainty among the country's entrepreneurs. Before us is a discussion in the Riksdag about the so-called profit rules for welfare activities. I think this is a really bad proposal. During this government, the care queues have doubled. But instead of a broad discussion about hijacked care queues and a discussion about how entrepreneurs can contribute in school, health care and care, it has become a discussion about ownership. I believe that the government's actions lead to the absence of important innovations in schools, for example, and that entrepreneurs who could have been involved in developing care or health care instead choose other sectors. It's really bad nutrition policy. But Sweden is now also in a boom, Madam President. I think it is noticeable, not least in my hometown of Gothenburg, where the automotive industry is doing better than ever. There are incredibly exciting advances in e.g. electrification, hybridisation and automation. Around the corner, however, are a number of slightly bigger issues that we must start to address politically now that we are approaching the elections and also in the coming years. One such area is trade and trade policy. American tariffs for steel and aluminium are bad, just like any other toll. And steel tariffs easily become tariffs in other areas, in response to the first. In the end, it is always a company or a consumer who is taking the fall. And we know that customs and other barriers to trade lead to fewer companies and fewer jobs. It is particularly clear in a country like Sweden, which is very dependent on imports and exports. The fact that the President of the United States has, in addition, departed from normal trade rules is further problematic. I think we should make a statement on this: we have a discussion on Brexit in the EU that has not been concluded. We have growing protectionist forces in Europe, and the EU has not yet been able to fully implement its own internal market. Yes, then one can draw no other conclusion than that trade and trade policy will be a very important issue in the coming term of office. Our focus is, of course, to try to remove trade barriers and try to get more trade agreements. But, to be honest, this is not an easy task for a future government. A second area is integration, which is one of our major challenges in the coming years. Sweden will be tested when many new people will enter the Swedish labour market. Some are well educated. Others aren't. The proposals put forward so far by the government will not be enough. We need aid ceilings, reduced income taxes, new forms of employment and, above all, a substantial reform package for companies, which the Alliance wants to launch, so that companies can find and grow. Then there is that with globalisation and competitiveness. It is nothing new that Swedish companies have sold products and services to companies and customers in other parts of the world. Often it can be that you have a fairly large business in Sweden and sell a lot to other parts of the world in a tough competition. But we see that it is becoming harder and that Sweden as a country cannot take its position in the economy and in the world for granted, but it is becoming increasingly tough. This is why the Moderates have proposed that we follow this up better and look at how it works in Sweden with taxes, schools, transport, research and other areas. We should compare ourselves with the best to see what reforms we need to decide on in order for us to really be able to have industry and business at the forefront – with their preconditions. I don't think it stays there. Sweden also needs to take substantial steps forward to become even more attractive, so that you can get good people to come here to study, research, work and start a business. It can be about IT technicians, professors, car-plate repairers and medical researchers. A first step is to stop the skills expulsions – it is therefore when foreigners who exist here, work, pay taxes and form key skills are thrown out of the country. But that's the little question. We also need to cut processing times, simplify government administration, introduce new visa categories for entrepreneurs and talents and look at the conditions around the perimeter. For example, it is a question of introducing more generous option rules. These are the reforms that lay the foundation for more exciting startups and many new jobs. Then I'll say a few words about digitalisation. It is easy to like robots if they avoid making a heavy lift. But it may not be as fun all the time if many years of education or experience are competed out by a self-learning algorithm in a computer system. In this regard, we are seeing a wide-ranging technological development worldwide. This is not the first major transformation in Sweden. We have moved from agricultural society to industrial society and far-reaching urbanisation. It was challenging then. It will be this time too, but Sweden has very good opportunities. McKinsey has shown in a study that four out of five Swedes are in favour of robotics, digitalisation and automation. We are very often perceived as curious. We like new technology. Sweden has been early in taking on the internet and the opportunities for internationalisation. We are often pointed out as a digital front-runner alongside other Nordic countries. But there are also a number of concerns. There is an analysis company called Nordic Web, which has looked at artificial intelligence. It has been noted that as little as 4% of new startups in this area take place in the Nordic countries – and most in Finland. We can see that quite few Swedes have a digital mailbox for government contact. A lot of people in Denmark do. And in Estonia, you can do almost anything in contact with authorities via the Internet. The EU has compared digitalisation in the public sector in different countries. This is not an encouraging reading for Sweden. Criticism is directed at areas such as user-friendliness, transparency and cyber security. I think all of this calls for reflection. In Europe, of course, we need to have an agenda where we focus more on digitalisation, the digital single market, research and technological development – there should be less support and subsidies and unnecessary supranationality. In Sweden, I think there is a need for a power collection for digitalisation and AI. Many companies are already investing heavily in these areas. Many universities do, too. One example among many is that Chalmers has received a donation from the Wallenberg Foundations of SEK 600 million for research in quantum technology. We from the Moderates want to invest in a research institute for applied artificial intelligence. We see that Sweden here could take a key position in the world. Others are researching the basics. Companies make their bets. However, an institute could focus on how to change society, what systems are needed and how technology can be combined with economics and law. Sweden is a fantastic country, where a lot works well. But we have problems and challenges ahead of us. Our hope and focus is that the Alliance will be able to launch an ambitious reform agenda for entrepreneurship around areas such as trade policy, integration, competitiveness and digitalisation. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation No 1.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-678	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for your speech! There's a lot of what you're saying that I agree with. This applies, among other things, to trade policy, of course, where we are in fact incredibly united in the Swedish Parliament. And we also see both the strength of integration and the challenges of integration. But I have another question for you. It's about Norrland. There I live, and there are many important raw materials produced for Sweden's exports. These include minerals, forests and energy. The tourism industry is also strong in Norrland. Something that worries me is how the Moderates really view our conditions in the north and whether they really want to promote our business development. You can look at the proposals here today. The Moderates say in the rhetoric that it is important for the state market-supplementary venture capital to operate throughout Sweden, but this cannot be seen in the Moderates budget, which now says no to the government's investment in the Norrland Fund, with an extra 200 million. You can also see statements from moderate representatives. For example, it is said that building the Norrbotnia Line is a declaration of war against the Stockholm region. The chairman of the Moderate Youth League, Benjamin Dousa, says: If the market does not save Överkalix and Övertorneå, just move. We want to invest in and invest in Norrbotniabanan because we want to secure Swedish competitiveness, skills supply for the business community in the north and raw materials transport. My questions to Lars Helmered are: What do the Moderates really want with Norrland? Do you see it as just a place in Sweden where you get your energy and your raw materials? Should we simply move if the market does not solve the specific conditions for those of us who live there? And how does Lars Hjälmered see investments in infrastructure in Norrland, for example Norrbotniabanan, which you do not have in your budget but which we believe is important for the development of Sweden as a whole?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-684	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the infrastructure. We note that the Moderates propose more money for road investments than the government does. There are a number of ways in this country. It's very important. We also propose a targeted programme for long and heavy goods vehicles. It is a reform that the government finally introduced but far too few routes. There we have a reform package that is about strengthening bridges and sections of roads, so that it will be a real opportunity for hauliers to buy this type of trucks, which can be used in all kinds of industries. One of these industries is the important forest industry, which is located in northern Sweden but also in other parts of the country. It is a typical example of an industry that needs reasonable and the right conditions for development. This applies to both the forest that is growing and the direct jobs that are there. Above all, however, it concerns processing. There is a major threat in this area right now. There is great concern among the hundreds of thousands of forest owners in Sweden, and there are a number of threats that the government is postponing in this. One of them is the truck tax, which the government is talking about introducing. They themselves say that it has no environmental impact, and it impairs competitiveness. When you remove materials from the forest, it becomes more expensive, if it even becomes profitable, to use it for cogeneration. The second is the discussion on the issue of biotopes and ownership. It is highly uncertain what the government wants with this. Current legal cases are about whether, in the event of an infringement, compensation can be obtained. We Moderates are clear that it is about strengthening property rights and also opting out directly harmful taxes because they lower the important forest industry – Norrland in this context. Then let me send you back a question. Integration is one of the biggest challenges. Most jobs come in the smallest companies. We can see that the regulatory burden has increased in recent years. Among other things, NNR has written that the company's regulatory costs run smoothly. Why do you create such a regulatory chaos linked to the companies?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-689	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. I have also read NNR, and I have seen that there has been a look at what, according to the EU, is a large part of the increase in costs. Of course, you have to do a job there. There was the question of integration. I would like to tell you about Åre, where 90% of the new arrivals have been in work and self-sufficiency within two years. There are areas where you work well, and that is a great challenge and asset. What we know is that there will be large children's litters and many older ones in the future, and we will need a lot of labour. That's why we spend so much money on education. I note that I did not receive an answer to the question about Norrbotniabanan and how it looks at investing in large infrastructure investments in the north. When it comes to the forest and ownership, Lars Helmered is absolutely right. We stand up entirely for ownership. That is why we are putting money in the budget so that it is possible to get compensation if there are biotopes to be protected. I have another question for Lars Helmered. I wonder what the analysis has shown when we do not want to add another 200 million to the Norrland Fund. Isn't there a need? What is your analysis because you choose not to add more market-supplementing venture capital to the entrepreneurs of the Norrland Fund in the five northernmost counties?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-694	Madam President, I would like I may have missed something, but I have not seen a fully funded proposal for the entire Norrbotnia Line from the Social Democrats – but it is possible that the government will return. Otherwise, there will be rhetoric, as it often is. Let me raise the question of the forest, because it is a key issue. For me it is not a northern question, but a Swedish question that covers many parts of our country. There is incredible potential, especially in processing. This can be about wooden building and other uses. Now they want to use the forest for just all kinds of purposes, for example the transport targets. AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg now says that she agrees that it should be possible to obtain compensation and that ownership should not be threatened. It sounds nice, but the problem is that the country's forest owners do not really experience it that way. One feels that it is a strange application and inventory of biotop protection, and one experiences a legally unsecure position in the context. One must be able to choose sides and say that there should be a high level of environmental responsibility in forestry with the forestry model that exists with two equal environmental and production objectives. It is a question of trusting the forest owners, that they continue to assume their own responsibilities on the basis of ownership. Sweden has one of the world's best managed forests, and property rights are now being violated. To argue that you want to protect property rights – but forest owners do not feel that way – is very bad if you are serious about us developing and taking advantage of all the opportunities. It is a promise to an incoming alliance government that we will clearly turn the focus on forestry policy forward.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-698	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a good country to run companies and realize business ideas in. But we cannot live on old merits, but we must face the fiercer competition from the world around us with reforms that further improve the business environment. Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 12 on nutrition policy. It is a comprehensive report, and the Swedish Democrats have eight reservations. I will not be able to talk about all these reservations; for example, I am not going to talk at the moment about our reservation which describes the design of an industrial policy that we believe would create jobs around Sweden. We have reason to come back to this in another report in the spring. Of course we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am in favour of only reservation 38. Madam President, I would like The report concerns, among other things, several issues related to regulatory simplification work for Swedish companies, and it can easily be said that Sweden has too many rules that companies have to relate to, which require administration that forces companies to do something completely different from their core business. Furthermore, processing times often occur with our authorities that slow down the business. Last but not least, there are also numerous rules that limit business activity but where the benefits can be said to be difficult to correspond to the damage actually caused to entrepreneurs. A concrete example of this is, for example, the insanely ill-considered chemical tax on electronics, which provides no environmental benefits but risks jobs in Sweden. Regardless of the color of the government, the administration and the regulatory burden are constantly growing. I believe that the previous alliance government certainly had a good approach to simplifying the business environment, but according to surveys by entrepreneurs themselves, little or no improvement has been seen. That is why I believe that a new approach is needed. Madam President, I would like In recent years, there has been a focus on reviewing new laws and regulations to a greater extent before they are introduced. The Board of Governors, a special decision-making body within the Swedish Agency for Growth, has the task of reviewing and giving its opinion on the quality of the impact assessments on constitutional proposals that may have an impact on companies. We Swedish democrats believe that this is a good thing, and that is why we are proposing in this report how the authority and powers of the Rule Council can also be strengthened in order to improve the quality of all these rules that are actually introduced. However, one major shortcoming that we have identified is the lack of a systematic approach to the abolition of laws and regulations which has subsequently proved to be inconsistent with the political benefits. As politicians, it is not always easy to identify exactly which laws and rules cause it for the entrepreneurs, but they usually do the best themselves. This is why we believe that the state should systematically invite business organisations to put the political agenda in place in the regulatory simplification process by making various contributions. Then, of course, it will be up to the government to work on these issues together with the administrative authorities and in turn for the opposition to examine the work of the government. With this model, the Swedish Democrats mean that we can actually get started a regulatory simplification work that seriously shrinks the Swedish administration with growth and new jobs as a result. Madam President, I would like Now I was also going to take the opportunity to raise an issue that can also mean jobs and growth in northern Sweden in particular, namely the issue of a national strategy for setting up data centres. Technological developments, new consumption patterns and the increased use of so-called cloud services increasingly require data storage capacity. Many new data centres and digital information storage centres will be established around the world in the next few years, according to some assessors perhaps up to 700, of which 200 are likely to end up somewhere in Europe. In this context, we would like to point out that Sweden has many competitive advantages to attract the establishment of this type of business: perhaps above all our cold climate but also good access to trained staff, good IT infrastructure with high capacity, solid geological conditions and stable power supply. We are therefore well placed in an international comparison. In addition to the fact that there should of course be good conditions in Sweden for running companies, it is important that the government takes a concerted approach to working with the competitive advantages that Sweden has when it comes to establishing data centres. This is why we believe that Sweden should have a national strategy that channels these benefits in order to increase the chances of new establishment of data centres in Sweden.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-709	Madam President, I would like I would like to raise a few trade policy issues with Mr Fransson.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-710	We have talked about Volvo in Skövde before. I think we can talk about companies other than Volvo in Skövde but with a similar focus, because much of the Swedish economy is about imports and exports. About half of it is linked to this, and then it is of course important that all trade agreements exist and can come. This is a worrying development we are now seeing with, for example, Trumps's steel tariffs and their effects. We also have a link with the European Union. My idea and that of the Moderates here and at large is not, as it were, to glorify the whole of European cooperation. There are, of course, both advantages and shortcomings in this, but one of the major benefits is the internal market. Unfortunately, it is not yet fully implemented with regard to a digital single market or services, but there is still freedom of movement for people and for businesses and their products. For Sweden and Swedish companies, the European market is the most important. Germany is usually pointed out, but there are also other countries. The concern associated with all this with Trump and protectionism is that we do not really know what will apply to customs and other barriers to trade. But in Europe we usually have a situation where we can act completely freely and openly. The Swedish Democrats say that Sweden should leave the EU. It is clear that it is a perfectly legitimate opinion, but such an opinion is also likely to create great uncertainty. It may be at Volvo in Skövde but also at other companies that sell products and services to other European countries that there will be uncertainty. We see this not least in the British discussion. What can the relationship look like if they leave the EU? What to do with the Customs Union? What about freedom of movement and different regulatory frameworks? I wonder: how do you really think about this, which creates such uncertainty for Swedish companies?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-715	Madam President, I would like As we know, the Swedish democrats, as we have talked about many times in this House, are keen supporters of having free trade with other countries. We believe that this is a good thing for Sweden – because there are Swedish companies that are completely dependent on being in these markets to be able to get their goods out, so that Sweden can get export revenue and ultimately for us in Sweden to have good welfare. As far as the European Union is concerned, our membership is for good and evil, just as Lars Helmered said. On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we believe that the way the European Union looks today, there is far too much evil for us to be able to support EU membership. However, we have also said that it does not necessarily mean that we do not want a common market for the countries that are currently part of the European Union. The structures are there. I believe that it is very easy to take the raisins out of the cake – to turn European cooperation into a free trade union and not interfere in a lot of socio-economic projects in different countries so that we in Sweden, for example, can pay for the construction of competing companies in other countries that deal with the same activities as we here in Sweden. The fact that we are paying for competition from other countries, for example through structural funds and such things, is one of the things that we in the Swedish Democrats are strongly opposed to. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to have a free trade union in Europe like it is today, but to remove all this, which Lars Helmered probably also thinks is evil.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-718	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are both advantages and disadvantages to this cooperation; it would be ridiculous to argue otherwise. There are clear views in my party, and sometimes we broadly agree on the focus in view of some support and subsidies, unnecessary supranationality and such things. But it is also a fact that we have this properly functioning internal market, where companies can sell their products in other European countries. We are happy to take further steps in this area with regard to the digital single market and services. The Swedish Democrats' message is that we should not take these steps further, not least for the important service industry, but leave the cooperation entirely. I do not question the intent, because it is a perfectly legitimate opinion. However, the National Board of Trade has carried out an analysis linked to the withdrawal of the British, which states that the only thing we know is that it will be worse for Swedish companies in the UK to see their operations within the Union. It is uncertain what will apply to customs duties, and it will not have the same access to the market. It becomes uncertain as regards employees and their mobility. However, since Sweden has a great deal of trade with not least European countries, I feel that if we are to finance welfare by the fact that industry and industry are doing well, the first choice cannot be to say that we are leaving the European Union – despite all its disadvantages. It seems to me a rather strange position by the Swedish Democrats when they say that it should probably be possible to find a solution to this, that it can probably work with some kind of free trade solution. I am not sure that people working in important export industries feel safe with that message.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-722	Madam President, I would like It is easy to see that the EU is an institution, an organisation, whose bureaucracy is growing. Like all other political organisations, we want to be meaningful and, in my opinion, we will not take any steps back from anything. Many of the leaders who sit in Brussels – who we have never really chosen from the beginning but who still have an incredible influence on Sweden and Swedish companies – have an ambition to make Europe a federation of the US model, where we will be integrated in one area after another. We are opposed to this. We are not opposed to the free trade union. But I welcomed Brexit because I think someone has to put their foot down. It is the only way to make this growing monster ever hurt and hopefully, by extension, become the more pure free trade union that at least I want to see. I do not believe that any European country does not want the internal market. But there are a lot of parties around Europe – parties like mine if nothing else – who do not like to see this political integration, where the differences between countries are to be removed more or less. I do not think that the European Union should be involved in this type of activity at all.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-725	Madam President, I would like We are debating industrial policy today, and for me it is basically about every person's ability to realise their ideas and dreams. When everyone has that opportunity, it also creates greater opportunities for every person to grow, and it naturally leads to the growth of the whole society. That's why I'm happy to go through government policy. You put great emphasis on everyone getting this opportunity and the chance. There is a particular focus on women's, young people's and newcomers' entrepreneurship and social enterprises. I think it says something about the government's views on entrepreneurship and on industrial policy as such. This is done systematically in budgets, regulatory letters and directives to authorities and state-owned companies. It's a good foundation, I think. The next question I would like to address, Madam President, is the issue of climate change. The government has clearly indicated that it sees the climate challenge as one of the most important societal challenges we have, but also as an opportunity that can be combined with, for example, an active and export-promoting nutrition policy. I had the pleasure of visiting SSAB the other day. I got a tour and a presentation about the company's work with fossil-free steel production. It was a very inspiring day, and I learned a lot new. Not least, I saw how tagged SSAB is on the transition that is now required and that they also see it not only as a problem and a challenge but as an opportunity and an export opportunity for the future. SSAB therefore aims to become completely fossil-free in its production and, together with LKAB and Vattenfall, runs a pilot project on this subject. It is inspiring to see that there are now also clear initiatives from industry in this direction. I would like to stop a little here and mention some of the efforts that the government has made in this area, which is about marrying the climate challenge with an active industrial policy. The first thing to mention is the special investment we make in the heavy industry, Industrikliv. It was very inspiring to see when SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall went out with this initiative, which is about fossil-free steel. They said: We want to do this, we want to invest, but we will need support from the state. Shortly thereafter, the government showed that it was willing to take part in this, and it has now introduced the Industriklivet. Furthermore, the Smart Industry strategy focuses on the challenges and opportunities of the future: digitalisation, innovation and sustainable production as a whole. Of course, we have climate change, which is a prerequisite for expanding charging infrastructure in rural and urban areas. We have the National Innovation Council, where the Prime Minister himself is chairman, with sustainability and climate as some of the important issues. We have the collaboration programmes, five of them, and the government's work with Testbed Sweden, Rise, Vinnova and so on. Last but not least, we have the great effort that has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, electrification of the automotive industry. This is, as I said, about combining the climate challenge with an active nutrition policy. The last thing I want to mention there is the initiative Fossil-free Sweden, which is about working together with the various parts of the business community to develop action plans for fossil freedom. I read about which industries only this spring came up with action plans to become completely fossil-free. Here, as I said, the steel industry, which currently has a pilot project on fossil freedom, the concrete industry, the construction sector, the cement industry, the grocery trade, the aviation industry, the mining and minerals industry, the forestry industry and the haulage industry. All of these have now come up with action plans to become fossil-free. This is a work that is done together with the government's collaboration body Fossil-free Sweden, which has this as a purpose. This shows that the companies share the government's view that sustainability is a competitive advantage and an opportunity for exports in the future. I would also just like to mention something about environmental taxes, because it has already been mentioned here in the speaker's chair how horrendous they seem. I think it is a rather pessimistic view that as an entrepreneur you are not willing to pay for your environmental debt. It is clear that we should have a holistic approach when we work with the tax system. I, as a Green person, basically prefer to make a tax exchange when introducing environmental taxes. We have also done so to some extent. For example, we have now introduced a flight tax and, at the same time, we are reducing the costs of hiring the first employee for small businesses. So I think it is a pessimistic and defensive view that environmental taxes would be so dangerous. It is, of course, about how you view the tax system as a whole. In the future, I think we should have even more focus on tax policy. How can we use taxes not only to punish what damages the climate but also to promote circularity in companies, new business models and the sharing economy in business? We also need to improve the regulatory burden, in particular the implementation of EU legislation, and we need to improve matching in the labour market and in skills provision. In doing so, I would also like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-742	Madam President, I would like This term of office is about to end, and it is time to sum up, evaluate and look at what different parties said before the last election and how it has become. I was going to take note of the 2014 Green Party Election Manifesto. In it there was a section called a new job. Paragraph 3 reads: a reduction in the burden and costs for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs should be allowed to devote their time to running businesses and therefore the regulatory burden must be reduced. ..................................................... At the same time, a survey by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise shows that two out of three entrepreneurs feel that it has become more difficult to start and run a business in the last three years. One in three says that it is about unchanged, and only 1 percent say it has become easier. The other day there was also a press release from NNR, the Swedish Business Council, with the title. In this connection, Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Lorentz: how do you view your failure on this point?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-745	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! I actually share the problem picture quite a lot. It is clear that we have problems with regulatory issues for entrepreneurship in Sweden. On exactly what this is due to, most people point to the implementation of EU legislation as one of the important problems. We have already had the ambition to review the role of the Rule Council in this context and examine whether they can get into the decision-making process earlier and have a clearer impact on the legislation and implementation of EU legislation in particular. I still think we should go that way. Here Denmark is an example. It has simply succeeded in reducing the unnecessary regulatory burden of introducing different legislations. As we have discussed before, work is ongoing, for example within the assignment given to Boverket, which concerns the digitisation of annual reports. Work is under way to shorten processing times at the authorities and so on. I believe that we are still on the way to starting to deal with this, but I certainly think that more is needed, as I also mentioned in my speech.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-749	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd follow up on a second question. There is, of course, a bourgeois idea of doing something called green tax exchange, that is, of being prepared to increase certain environmental taxes and at the same time reduce taxes on labour and businesses. For example, this was done by the former alliance government. In recent years this government has proposed, and the Riksdag has decided, a number of increases in certain environmental taxes. Let us sometimes discuss whether they are effective or not. This has been combined with an increase in taxes on labour and businesses; it is therefore an overall increase in taxes and not a shift in taxes. I would like to ask Mr Lorentz Tovatt, for the next parliamentary term: Is the Green Party really considering a green tax shift and not the general tax increase that has been the effect of your policy?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-752	Madam President, I would like I am always happy when I hear people from the alliance parties talking about green tax exchange. Then I always get so sad every time it's not done. Every time we Greens put forward a proposal for a ruling environmental tax, it is no from the alliance parties. If you look at the alliance parties' own government ownership during the eight years they were in power, you can see quite clearly that the taxes on the environment were very still – almost nothing happened there. In contrast, taxes were reduced very much in the rest of the world. So what was talked about as a green tax shift was rather a dark blue tax cut. I am the first to be overjoyed if you really are serious about the talk about green tax exchange. I see, as I mentioned, a need for the future to look more broadly at various taxes, their purpose and their governing effects. There I see a need to reduce taxes on labour and entrepreneurship, not least with a focus on the sharing economy and the circular economy, while at the same time increasing environmental taxes. So far, however, there has been no such interest from the alliance parties. As I mentioned in my speech, we have introduced growth aid, which greatly reduces the costs of the first employee in small businesses. So we are on our way there, and I am the first to be happy if the Alliance really wants to support work with a real green tax shift and not just a dark blue tax cut.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-756	Madam President, I would like Replacing oil and other fossil raw materials is a prerequisite for achieving our environmental goals and managing climate change. In Domsjö, outside Örnsköldsvik in Västernorrland, there are plans for how this can be done. That's where you want to build a biorefinery. It is estimated that it will cost between 15 and 22 billion. However, conflicting government signals on logging have now put the design on ice. If you in Domsjö cannot take out 8 million cubics of Swedish forest annually, you cannot, according to the site manager Lars Winter, carry out the initiative, at least not in Sweden. This is unfortunate, not least when such an initiative would contribute to a necessary shift from a fossil to a more climate-smart society with products based on forest raw materials, such as fabrics and fuel. In addition, the initiative would provide several thousand jobs – it has been estimated that it could be up to 5 000 jobs. As most people know, this is not exactly the case in northern Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the plans in Domsjö are politically charged. There seems to be a conflict between the Green Party and the Social Democrats on environmental policy. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven himself has visited Domsjö and is well aware of what is planned there. In addition, he has stated that he is in favour of an increase in the yield of forest. Among other things, he has said it in Land Agriculture and in Svenska Dagbladet. But the policy pursued by the government as a whole and implemented by its authorities points in a different direction. Do you know that some fifteen forest owners in Västerbotten's interior are now unable to control their forests, as the state has pointed out that there are high natural values there? These forest owners have no objection to setting aside land for high natural values, but the problem is that the state does not want to provide the compensation that is customary in such cases. Kammarkollegiet, the authority responsible for paying out the money, says that there is no ongoing land use. Yes, you heard correctly: no land use in progress. Should one reason in this way for all forests there would be no ongoing land use anywhere, because everyone knows that it takes 80 to 100 years for forests to grow up, and it takes even longer for mountain forests. This has now resulted in forest owners suing the state. This is precisely the kind of thing that makes it difficult to move forward with the investment in a biorefinery in Domsjö. This causes many forest owners to worry. Madam President, I would like The government's internal battles on forest issues create uncertainty for forest owners and for the Swedish forest industry. As I said, it has gone so far that the huge billion-dollar investment in a biorefinery in northern Sweden is now on ice. Here the government has a responsibility. It does not hold that the Minister for Rural Development promises that forest owners should feel safe and that more withdrawal from the forest should be possible, while the Minister for the Environment says the opposite. The Minister for the Environment says that the state should be able to stop the effects without paying compensation if the money is not enough. You are, or should at least be, a government, but you agree with double agendas that are incompatible. In fact, you'll have to agree on what's going to apply! In order for the Swedish forest industry to feel good and for us to be able to switch to a more sustainable society, we need clear information from the government about what forestry policy applies. Madam President, I would like I would also like to get into this a little bit with regulatory simplifications, as some of my colleagues have mentioned before. I think most of us in this House have a consensus there. Many entrepreneurs feel that there are very many rules, and this means that they spend far too much time on administration rather than developing their business. Unfortunately, the rulework also seems to have stagnated. Lawyer Göran Grén recently published the report A challenging Sweden, where he writes about the regulatory problems for the companies in the country. Grén believes that the government spends too little time on the issue and says that the rule improvement work has stopped. On the Swedish Enterprise's website you can read an interview with Göran Grén. He says there, we're going the wrong way. The numbers are alarming. The regulatory burden is increasing and Sweden is falling into the OECD's ranking, and we are lagging behind several of our main competitors who are working seriously with regulatory improvement to facilitate their business. It won't hold. The Center Party wants rules to have a sunset clause. That means you put an end date on a rule. In order for it to remain in force, it must be reconsidered and the advantages and disadvantages weighed against each other. Another suggestion we have is: a rule in – a rule out. This means that new rules entailing costs for companies will be met by corresponding reductions in costs in the form of the removal of other rules. Madam President, I would like Now Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog, the Green Party, has opened up to relaunch the mileage tax for heavy goods vehicles. It is a tax from a distance, and in an export-dependent country like Sweden it is anything but good. Martinson's Wood in Bygdsiljum, near my village, exports much of its products to other countries, and truck is a common means of transport. To be as environmentally friendly as possible, they pay 100 000 SEK per year to the local haulage company to use HVO as fuel, i.e. more of a fine fuel, and do as much as possible for the environment. But with the proposal that is now on the table, it does not matter if you drive with ugly fuel or fine fuel – the distances are taxed anyway. Then one might wonder: Is this a symbolic policy, in order for you to get money to pay for the promises you have made but really cannot afford? Should northern Sweden and the countryside pay for it? I must also mention the government's air tax, which was introduced on 1 April. This was done in spite of the knowledge that it has a minor effect on emissions and that it carries great risks for northern Sweden. Many routes are already under heavy economic pressure. With additional tax burdens, a number of them run a high risk of liquidation. The airlines have been fairly open about this. The consequences of fewer opportunities to travel to and from northern Sweden will of course be very negative. The truth is that it is perfectly possible to reduce emissions without this kind of destructive burden. For example, there is still a huge amount that a government could do to reduce emissions via biofuels and at the same time strengthen the economy of the forest industry. Instead, the Center Party has proposed that the forest should be used to a greater extent for the green transition. By introducing a quota obligation whereby airlines have to mix a certain amount of biofuels into the fuel – a quota that can also be increased over time – one can reduce emissions and at the same time create good business opportunities for the forest industry in northern Sweden. On the truck side, for example, we could reward low-emission vehicles economically and make it more expensive to transport with fossil-powered vehicles. This would also be positive for the forestry industry. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has also proposed a budget of SEK 750 million to create testing and demonstration facilities for biofuels and to support research into technological development in the aviation sector. It would, of course, have benefited the entire northern economy if forest owners gained a larger market and greater demand for forest raw materials. Unfortunately, however, the Social Democrats seem to have settled for the Green Party's ill-considered symbolism policy, where it is more important that it sounds good than that it actually has positive effects for the whole country. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the property tax for hydroelectric power and what an advantage it could be for the growth and development of hydroelectric municipalities and the hydroelectric regions. The seven forest counties contribute 90 per cent of Sweden's hydropower. Hydropower is produced locally but is one of the most important prerequisites for Sweden's common welfare. At the same time, hydropower municipalities such as Älvdalen, Jokkmokk, Åsele, Sollefteå and Ragunda are constantly struggling with economic problems and are among the municipalities with the highest tax pressure – this despite the fact that the forest counties supply virtually all the hydropower available in the country. For this reason, the Center Party wants to set up an investigation to design a long-term system in which the municipalities and regions concerned in the country may retain a fair share of the values of hydropower. Such a system would enable these municipalities and regions to plan and develop their futures and businesses in a completely different way from today.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-783	Madam President, I would like There is much to say about Helena Lindahl's speech. It is fascinating with a green party that has so much aversions to green measures and instruments. In the end, you almost have to choose: Either you are a green party, or you are a different type of party. I really think that the Center Party should have chosen a long time ago. I just want to mention a few things. The first thing to be said is that the Center Party is withdrawing the billions the government actually spends on protecting forests. So I do not see how the Center Party's policy of cutting back would in any way benefit the forest owners that this is about and that Helena Lindahl talked about at the outset. But then it becomes very interesting, because in her aversion against environmental taxes Helena Lindahl talks about the road wear tax and mentions HVO as a good fuel. It is highlighted and says that the haulage companies actually invest and try to be good, using HVO. With regard to HVO, there are two interesting things to say. One is that there is potential for good and sustainable HVO, but today there has been a sharp increase in palm oil products on the HVO market in Sweden. This results, among other things, from the fact that so much goods are transported by lorry instead of by rail. It will therefore be contradictory and difficult to know what the Center Party thinks. The second is that the Government's ambition to tighten up the market with regard to palm oil production has been stopped and therefore the Swedish biofuel producers are being knocked out. What Helena Lindahl says is therefore very strange, and the question is really: Why do you want palm oil on the Swedish biofuels market?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-788	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the Green Party is a particularly big city party. I saw you debating mileage taxes in the evening news a few weeks ago, Lorentz Tovatt, and you were just talking about fast rail between the big cities. Not in one word did you mention the rest of the country. It's symptomatic of your party. In fact, I think you're purely destructive to the countryside. Name something positive you are doing for the countryside! You're making charges like mileage taxes and air travel taxes... without them being directly environmentally friendly. Instead, it is fiscal taxes for you to get through some kind of symbolism policy so as not to go down before the elections. That is what this is about, and it is Northern companies that will be punished with your policy. I think it is tragic and irresponsible. If you now have more money for forest provisions, why don't you pay the forest owners? Why doesn't ownership mean more to you? The 15 forest owners I talked about and who own mountain forest are absolutely desperate. They may have inherited forest through the family, and that is one way of life. Many have borrowed money from the bank, and all of a sudden one of the authorities the government is responsible for, saying that it is not on-going land use and that they are not paid. It's just like they were gonna come to your house, Lorentz, and say they're gonna have your bedroom. You'll never be able to sell your apartment then. I know it's easy for big city dwellers who don't understand how it works in practice to smile. I find it tragic that you have so little understanding of people's property rights.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-792	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not know what debate Helena Lindahl is referring to; I have not been in any debate and have only talked about high-speed roads if it has not been explicitly the issue. I also noted that Helena Lindahl did not really respond to any of what I mentioned in my reply, Mr President. But this may happen when it becomes too emotional and is just about the party political squabble that you can engage in if you do not care about the environment, for example, and want results for the environment. Very well! I would like to return, among other things, to what we are doing for the countryside and what we have in our bio-raw material policy in this country. For example, we have ensured that at the end of the six-month period a reduction obligation is introduced that is entirely historic. We are fundamentally reshaping the whole fuel policy. We will use not only a tax but also a binding quota that will provide for investments in sustainable Swedish biofuels. But what Helena Lindahl cannot answer is why they do not at the same time want to strangle the crane for the palm oil consumption that comes directly into the Swedish biofuel market. I am a warm friend of using the biomaterial we have in Sweden, but there is such a naïveness here. It permeated Helena Lindahl's entire speech. Biofuels are referred to as a gold mine that will last indefinitely. The aircraft must have biofuels, and the shipping industry must have biofuels. In the chemical industry, in the textile industry and also in the heavy industry, we will have more biofuels. Somewhere here there is a stop, and you cannot accept that as a center party. I think that is naive and say something about what you actually value in politics.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-796	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Lorentz Tovatt lives in the world of fine theory where everything is possible on paper. But I can tell Lorentz Tovatt that I live in Västerbotten. I know quite a few entrepreneurs, including the management of Martinson, and they are despairing over the mileage tax. They say: We want to do the right thing – give us carrots so that we can adjust instead of taxing penalties when we really try to do the right thing! The problem is you don't listen to it, Lorentz Tovatt. You do not listen to these companies, but for you symbolism policy is more important. You're supposed to tax distances, and that's what's important. Is there anything we have plenty of in northern Sweden is it distance. You may call me naive, but I live and live there. I meet people every other day thinking about what the Green Party wants. If people are to do the right thing, give them the opportunity to choose! Now you're going to tax everyone, no matter what fuel they run on. It's not a responsible environmental policy, is it? As far as the air tax is concerned, even the investigator himself says that raising it does little to improve the environment. It's just fiscal, Lorentz. Yeah, it's just fiscal. I think it is tragic, because once again you are punishing this part of the country. You talk so nicely about using trains instead. Have you ever been on a train in northern Sweden, Lorentz? I think you should try it. It is not exactly an option for either goods or people. I'd rather you came back the day you have a little bigger investment in infrastructure in the north. In fact, so far I have not heard any environmental party talk about it particularly hotly. As far as property rights are concerned, I believe that the Green Party will have to consider one lap or two. You say you want to change society. The forest is a key in this, but you want to strangle the outlet. I find that contradictory.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-800	Mr President, I would like to Colleagues and listeners! It is the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs' 12 Nutrition policy that we are going to debate today. It feels especially urgent for me today. I am thinking about what is going on in my municipality with a mine that went bankrupt and everything that it carried with it. Pessimism came back. We had finally come from Pajala when a mine started in 2012. But what makes most of the residents of my municipality happy today is, of course, that the mine will start again, until the summer. We also have tourism entrepreneurs who are investing heavily, and their success does not make things worse. I am usually not the first to highlight venture capitalists as some who save society or welfare or, for that matter, as some who would have something else in mind but to make a lot of money in as short a time as possible. But now that I have the chance, I'll say a few words about the investors who bought the enrichment plant and associated equipment in the mine. In fact, I cannot help but lift my hat and thank these investors, venture capitalists or whatever you call them. It was so close that the receiver sold everything to a buyer who would slaughter the plant and sell it all on. It's amazing how close it was. In other words, everything was saved at the last moment by these investors. In order not to confuse you completely as to who is defending these venture capitalists, I shall say that I, of course, also understand that it was not a bad deal to buy all this, which has cost up to billions to build up, for a pittance of the construction cost. But the fact that they will get their money back in a short time, which you might think all venture capitalists are counting on, is not enough here. I can only say that without these investors, a mining start in the municipality of Pajala would definitely have been a dream that had had to be put in the back of the cover for prospective jobs, and that for generations to come. And as salt in the wound, the restoration of the mining area would surely have cost the community $250 million. As everyone here understands, it is of course still not an entirely risk-free project for these investors and for those who have gone in with funding to enable a start for mining this summer. But what I am reflecting on is the differences compared to Northland, which had debts of over 10 billion. And today we start with capital that is not close to these amounts. And there are no loan institutions with sky-high interest rates knocking on the door every two days. The role of the state in business ventures and in venture capital, and so on, often comes up for discussion. The state cannot enter as an actor and be dominant in industries, such as the mine in my municipality of residence, unless our company LKAB sees possible future synergies or simply sees it as a good investment for the future. But one thing the state should definitely look at is the infrastructure. This applies to all industries that need infrastructure, whether it is broadband, rail, road, air or maritime. The fact that there are no quick answers or solutions is understandable. However, not doing our utmost to resolve transport issues, which most often concern mines, for example, would be a bit of a misconduct by a government. I and the Left Party think it is extremely important for a government that says it is protecting the climate to look at transport that could be more climate-smart. Mr President, I would like to Enough about the industry mine in my municipality of residence. The fact that the Alliance, together with the SD, pushes through two announcements is, in my view, once again, to break open doors, as in many cases earlier in this House. The fact that the report deals with more than 200 requests and nearly 50 reservations clearly demonstrates the commitment to a very important issue. The fact that we and the government have the same view in a lot may well also appear, but there are and should be differences. It's perfectly natural. I come from the sparsely populated countryside. Nobody could have missed that after the almost four years I have had the honour of sitting in Parliament with the rest of you in this House. Managing businesses in rural areas is especially important but also associated with challenges. We need all kinds of livelihoods and jobs for those who have stuck there and who want to continue to live and work in places that do not have large cities that provide opportunities for jobs and livelihoods. But it is also about market forces that in other places often solve property values, or other solutions that are linked to large customer groups in turn solving other challenges for companies as well. Getting generational shifts or enabling employees to take over businesses is often more difficult in rural and rural areas than in big cities or in towns near big cities. It is therefore important for the State to recognise the challenges of taking over companies that otherwise have black figures. But the supply of capital does not work in the same way in rural areas or for all forms of enterprise. In large cities where there are large customer bases and market forces that assure values, these difficulties are not encountered. The fact that the same kind of differences occur if they are typically women-dominated occupations does not make matters more attractive either. I have been given the opportunity to travel a part of my duties as a Member of Parliament. I think it's amazing that in the United States there are far more companies owned by the employees than I thought. It was a surprise to me. The same applies in other European countries. They have a better view of employee-owned companies. One could investigate how we in Sweden could make things easier for companies that are doing well but are threatened with closure. Could employees be given the opportunity to take over? I definitely believe that the view of different forms of enterprise needs to be reviewed. Diversity in the operation and ownership of entrepreneurship, such as cooperatives and employee-owned enterprises, would, of course, develop and facilitate the take-over of enterprises, but also at the start-up stage. Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time-winning I only ask for reservation 17. Sometimes you really get lucky with which seminars you participate in. Yesterday, I and some colleagues sitting in this Chamber at an event called Is there room for a variety of owner models in Sweden? We listened to e.g. Dr Sophie Nachemson-Ekwall-Ekwall and Anders Källström, CEO of LRF. They both highlighted what we in the Left Party point out in our motion and our reservation is about. I quote from the motion. We believe that the Riksdag should support what is stated in the motion that the Government should set up an investigation into the ways in which the State can facilitate employee-owned companies and the takeover of threatened production and announce this to the Government. Those of you who attended the seminar yesterday nodded in agreement with what was preferred. Now you have the chance to get one step closer. Just vote for our reservation.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-820	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, the President of the United States, Trump, announced that he would like unilaterally to impose duties on steel and aluminium, among other things. This sparked a great deal of discussion in Sweden, the rest of Europe and other parts of the world. These kinds of tariffs are bad in many ways. And many Swedish companies are on that market. Trump also cited national security as a reason. It is also the same rules that Sweden introduced in 1975 – I think it was – when customs duties were introduced for imports of leather shoes in Sweden. It was about as stupid as the American President's initiative. It is usually a great and important Swedish interest to stand up for free trade and different types of trade agreements. We know that the Left Party has opposed a trade agreement between Europe and the United States. Views have been made that Swedish companies would trade with non-democrats, such as Iran, Cuba or perhaps partly China. Not long ago, there was a major discussion in Parliament about the so-called CETA agreement, that is, a trade agreement between Europe and Canada. Canada is a progressive country that is quite similar to our own country. In spite of this, however, the Left Party chose to oppose the agreement. Then I have to ask: which countries does the Left Party think it should be able to have trade agreements with? Which countries is it okay for Swedish industrial companies and other companies to trade with, according to the Left Party?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-826	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars, for the same question I think I have been asked for a couple of years now! But I give the same answer again, that from our arguments for saying no, it is clear that we are not against trade agreements and trade. However, this trade agreement has a distorted emphasis on those who benefit from it. It is companies that can sue states, and it is investor protection. Why we say no is clear from our arguments. You ask which countries we want trade agreements with. We want trade agreements with both the US and Canada and several other countries. However, this trade agreement is not designed to ensure rights that a state wishes to impose, whether based on the defence of labour law or social rights. There will be a distortion if only companies can sue. As I said before, I would understand whether it was about countries with uncertain government. Then I might be able to buy that there must be some security, but in all these countries there are legal systems that work.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-829	Mr President, I would like to Well, I am aware that this conflict is at the heart of Left Party criticism. If I remember correctly, there are hundreds of such mechanisms in various trade agreements. I respect that you can have different views on whether they work or whether they should be designed in a different way. What I think may be a little problematic is that the pervasive trend in this is that the Left Party always lands in that it is against trade agreements. If it is a new agreement, a new country and a new continent, it is said that, precisely because of this detail, it is not going to vote in favour of it this time either. It was the direction of the US and this CETA agreement, which is perhaps the most modern agreement in construction and scope. What we need in Sweden I would say as a matter of urgency is more trade, free trade and trade agreements. It will not be an easy task for a future government to work on this in the EU context and beyond. However, it will be a hugely important task to try to help remove customs and other barriers to trade and, not least when the British leave the EU, to be extra driving force for the Commission to be given the right mandate to start further and other negotiations on future trade agreements. I do not know all the details, Mr President, but it is said that there has been a news on the day of an agreement between the EU and Japan, on which Commissioner Malmström and the counterparts must agree. The question then arises, Mr President: will the Left Party consider voting in favour of such a trade agreement, or will it be against it because of some detail?
i-BeZN3UX1Kd1WvbvH5mVdE7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars, for the line shift! As you said yourself, you don't know the details. I can comfort you that I don't have it, either, so I can't answer your question. I mentioned in my speech our trip to the United States. When asked the question to Volvo or Swedish companies dealing with the USA if there is a problem with trading with the USA, they replied that it is not. You are now talking about a trade agreement with Japan. I know how much the wood industry deals with Japan. Do you think, Lars Helmered, that it has not worked with the trade with Canada, the United States and Japan? Is this what has meant that we do not have a functioning industry in Sweden that can export? Is the Achilles heel of our development that we do not have trade agreements and cannot trade with other countries? Is this the problem that has prevented us from trading with other countries?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-836	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sara lives her life in freedom. She has long working hours, but she gets to work with what she loves. She takes the lead and dares to be her own instead of being employed. She gets up when everyone else is asleep to bake your bread, fix your shoe or run your bid. Sara is a welfare-making hero. Sara is an entrepreneur, but Saras's freedom is under attack by the world's highest tax burden, by a regulatory burden that grows for every Reepalu investigation that the government appoints and by protectionism that unites both right-wing and left-wing extremists in their opposition to globalisation. Saras's freedom is worth defending both in Brussels and here in Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to Behind every job-creating entrepreneur stands a proud meat and blood entrepreneur – a person who has once taken the first step towards self-realization, self-sufficiency and job creation. Every entrepreneur is a hero of freedom who helps to make our citizens' everyday lives a little freer. The entrepreneur's revenues guarantee our tax base, which will then go to preschools, police, government industry chancellors, innovation councils or the expansive Government Office. Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurs, however, are not naive. All of this and more is clear to the one who has taken the step. The question is whether the government knows that this is the basis of our prosperity. The question is what message is being sent to enterprising women and men who train and start their own business but are faced with regulatory problems and a flood of labour law obstacles and tax increases. What will make the entrepreneur get up at five instead of seven o'clock? What is it that will get the entrepreneur to welcome another apprentice into the profession and see the person take a journeyman's or master's letter? What is it that will get the entrepreneur to further develop his product and launch it on the other side of the world? It is high time to accept that entrepreneurship must pay off. The entrepreneur should have paid for the effort. That freedom is worth defending. When a decision is made on a new rule, tax or charge, entrepreneurs sit on needles. The question then arises is whether the government has a limit on how effectively they want society to become. How little assets will the business community keep, half or a third? Or how much growth should be allowed before it is combated? These are questions that I send to the government representatives, because is it not the case that the money for the bets is taken from the Social Democrats lottery business or from the Anna-Caren-Carens savings account? Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are the Social Liberal Party of Sweden. Our party is based on an idea of keeping two thoughts in mind at the same time, both a social perspective to protect the weakest in society and a liberal perspective because we love to see independent people and individuals grow, develop and start businesses. It is the combination of these two perspectives on a well-balanced whole that is the basis of social liberalism. It is in this dual line of thought – freedom to the individual and solidarity to the one who has not yet realized his dreams – that social liberalism has its core. Entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for the implementation of these social policies. Over the years, this has been formulated in visions from Bertil Ohlin's "free enterprise with social responsibility" to Bengt Westerberg's devis, Sweden needs both a company and a kindergarten" – today one would have said preschools. In the balance between the social and the liberal, we have unfailing optimism and confidence in man and the society that we have created together to uphold citizens' rights and freedoms. We believe in man, and we believe that the market economy is one of the main forms of individual self-realization. We believe in a market economy that is strengthened by certain means of control and a public framework if confidence between the individual and the market is put at risk. In Sweden of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, the gaps and exclusion are growing. It is not a coincidence but a logical consequence of the fact that we have a socialist government that is in the ranks of the Left Party. Here the collective is put before the individual. One would rather see that everyone is just as bad than that a few get a little better through hard work and bold thoughts. They would rather force us into collective and narrow-minded squares than see creativity bloom. Mr President, I would like to Let us talk about the basis of creativity. Let us talk about the individual and the free thought, the smallest element of all our well-being that makes us dare to live, dream, try and fail, that which makes us dare to create nutritious and life-giving businesses. Mr President, I would like to To get there, the soil must be nutritious, and the money must be invested where it is most useful. For that to happen, we must make good laws that strengthen this. There must be insight, empathy and gratitude for where prosperity comes from. It comes from welfare-creating companies with people of flesh and blood who deserve our respect, morning and evening – not least from ministers and ministers who accuse some of these people of being tax evaders and shady types or of selling children on the stock exchange, as some sort of trafficking in human beings. It's unworthy. Mr President, I would like to Sweden and the global economy are in a synchronised boom. In the country after country, economic development is positive. The question is what we can do today to ensure that the economy continues to develop positively and that we are ready for the recession that will come. Here the government promises around but has delivered thin. Some concerns and consequences we see from the government's industrial policy are as follows: Expertise and leading companies leave Sweden. We see an increased regulatory burden. We see productivity growth decreasing in Sweden in relation to other countries. We see that GDP per capita decreases more in Sweden than in comparable countries. We see that the number of patent applications is decreasing more in Sweden than in comparable countries. We see that companies' investment in research and development is decreasing, and we see the number of start-ups being reduced. For this reason, the Liberals and the Alliance have presented about a hundred reform proposals to develop municipalities, regions and the role of national administration as enablers and supporters of welfare-creating companies. It is about long-term prerequisites for entrepreneurship, research and entrepreneurship. It is sometimes said that Sweden is built strongly when more people come to work. My answer to this is that Sweden is built strongly when more people start, run and develop companies. It has been said that entrepreneurship is the foundation of the welfare society. My answer is that every unnecessary age of regulation placed on the shoulders of the entrepreneur limits the freedom of the individual. It has been said that the entrepreneur cannot orient himself on the market without the security of the state. My answer is that the state would have no preconditions if it were not supported by the nutritious enterprise. Mr President, I would like to When the country's companies are doing well, Sweden is doing well. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 15.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-857	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Said. You really paint the world blacker than I think it's perceived to be. In 20 years, the industry has not had as much faith in the future as it is now. There are more people working in industry now than nine years ago. More companies choose to move home from low-wage countries, industrial investments in Sweden are the highest ever and the tourism industry is doing well. You and I don't seem to see the same statistics. I don't know where you're picking up yours, but I can tell you where to pick up mine. My question to Said Abdu is: what have you done in the Liberals for analyses when you choose to cut 1.6 billion in the area of enterprise policy? You are reducing tourism promotion, you are reducing 945 million in business development and more. I just saw in a flash that the Moderates have announced that they will cut taxes by 36 billion the next term of office, and I know that the Liberals often agree with the Moderates. The question is whether the Liberals want to slow down or promote business development. What do you see, Said, about the 1.6 billion cut?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-861	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Sätherberg for the question. The analysis of Sweden's economy and the economic situation in the world is positive. What I was trying to paint out in my speech was that things are going well today– possibly things could have gone even better– but that we need to look at what is happening in the long term. What I painted was a number of key indicators, fundamentals, which we need to accept, look at and address. The fact that we have reduced investment in research and development will affect us in the long term and that we have reduced patent applications as well. This is something I'm worried about. I hope AnnaAnna-Caren is also worried about that, because it is about taking responsibility for Sweden's economy in the long term and seeing what happens behind the next corner. In terms of investments and size of investments: That the government invests so much here and so much there is a recurring argumentation I hear. But what I don't understand is that you take 10 kroner or 50 kroner from an entrepreneur and then give 1 or 2 kroner back and call it a bet. Why do the Social Democrats believe that they know better what investment an entrepreneur needs than the entrepreneur himself knows? I believe that the individual entrepreneur knows better what he or she needs to prioritise in his or her investments than Anna-Anna-Caren, who is politically elected and who does not lead the company and needs to face the consequences. I hear the same arguments in the debate on welfare gains. What is it that says that a municipal councillor in Trollhättan knows better what is best for the individual child than the child's parents?
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-867	Mr President, I would like to I share your view that there are challenges, Said, as I said in my speech. We must never slow down, and no one can say that Sweden is not doing well right now. But that we need to be able to look around corners and later on, I agree. On the other hand, I do not share your view that the state should not take business promotion measures. I just had a replica shift with Moderaterna's Lars Helmered about how the Moderates look at Norrland and how we work to ensure that the companies there have infrastructure, broadband and venture capital – things we can't see in Moderates' exercise. I do not share your view, but believe that the state sometimes has to help the markets that are weak to bring the whole of Sweden together and with that increase our exports. Both you, Said, and your moderate colleague raised welfare companies in your speeches. You said we can't decide, think or think, but what do you base it on? Otherwise, if you do a global analysis and look at the best countries to make an impression, I wonder which countries you are looking at when it comes, for example, to profits in welfare, or which international institute is right in that it is the model. However, we share one thing, and that is that we know that education policy is incredibly important for business development. The Liberals are strong here.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-871	Mr President, I would like to These are relevant comments. We are consistent in terms of the importance of education policy for business; it is very important. If it is one of the main challenges facing industry today, it is precisely the supply of skills and the availability of skilled labour. However, when it comes to people's freedom of choice, we are not in agreement. We do not think politicians should control people's choice of school, health centre or anything else. We want to transfer power to parents and to the individual. We believe that they know better what is best for them than I do as politicians, and I believe that many share that view with me. I would like to see a more active industrial policy from the government. I have had many discussions on economic policy during my years in Parliament, and I have seen many strategies presented. But I would have liked to see much more results from a more active industrial policy. Sometimes it feels like it is active because it actively works against some of the enterprising people who are out there trying to earn a living.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-874	Mr President, I would like to Your speech made me a little confused, Said. Do you really think it is as black for entrepreneurs in Sweden as you told me? It's like a doomsday painting of our whole social picture of how entrepreneurs are doing. I usually visit entrepreneurs, and then I point to it and ask: What would you do if we changed places? They are quiet for a while, but then I get the answer many times: It is actually quite good to be an entrepreneur in Sweden. When I really try to stick to it as a reporter, I ask, ‘ But isn't it a little too expensive to hire? Don't you think the employers' fees are too high? Then I get the answer: No, I could pay more if I got the right person in the right place. I don't get the right staff with the training that I'm applying for. You say that the government, together with the Green Party, is in the Left Party's ligaments and thinks that everyone should get worse. I have a question for you, Said: Do you think an equal society is better or worse for Sweden?
i-3cN495zgAc5P7uBMSeD6Gn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the question. Liberals have always fought for equality. We have our origins in the voting rights movement, and we always fight for equality. But perhaps equality has different meanings for me and for Birger. We in the Liberals do not believe that equal outcomes are equality, but we believe that equal opportunities are equality. As far as the conditions for companies and the situation for the country's entrepreneurs are concerned, I agree with the analysis that Sweden is doing well. I didn't say it didn't. What I painted was a number of challenges that we have in the longer term. In the short term, Sweden is doing well, but I do not think that Birger can contradict me when I say that there are data showing that the regulatory burden is increasing. Is that good or bad, according to Birger? Is it good that productivity growth is decreasing in Sweden compared to comparable countries? Is it good that bnp per capita decreases more in Sweden than in comparable countries? Is it good that companies' investments are decreasing in Sweden? These key indicators show that we have challenges in the longer term. The fact that Sweden is doing well today does not mean that Sweden is doing well tomorrow. Therefore, we need to take responsibility for Sweden's economy in the longer term so that our children and grandchildren can also have a good financial situation. As for the experience and feeling of companies that they would like to pay more and so on, I understand that some people think that the social contract is in question. If you as an entrepreneur are constantly required for additional charges and more in taxes, you have greater expectations of what you get back, perhaps not directly, but indirectly, as a citizen of society.
i-QeQukD8nGa4KoNLoXGLZJn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Said, for your answer. I can't get it together. You say that you are in favour of an equal society and that the outcome is more important than that it comes to everyone and that everyone has the same chance. But that's not the case. In an unequal society, not everyone gets the same chance. You don't have the answers to how this is going to happen, and neither does your policy. Even if it is not part of business policy, you talked about school and that parents should have the right to choose. Yes, it is, but it must not be at the expense of those who cannot choose having the worst conditions, for that is what happens in such a society. They get a worse school and worse conditions. You said that Sweden is doing well – I agree – and that we should be equipped in the longer term. But the reason for the problem, that many do not invest, is that they do not get the right people because we have not trained the right staff for them. I was with a company that makes on order things that are not on the shelf for the industry. They could invest, but the uncertainty about getting the right staff is so great that they wait, as some were on. This is not just about the regulatory burden. I don't know everything about what all the rules for companies look like – I can agree with that – but what is clear and clear is that we need to train. We must go hand in hand with industry and companies to train the right kind of staff. It is one of the key issues where I actually think the government is working well.
i-YNsQ5sGdnaKzpmCXnaBd5w	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger Lahti. We are consistent in the latter analysis. Cooperation between the different parties is important in order for us to have a good and relevant supply of skills for the business community and the surrounding society. The biggest inequality in Sweden today is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. There we have in the Alliance, in my opinion, a much better answer, which we believe will reduce inequality in Sweden. We believe that if we give these people an opportunity and a chance on the labour market, inequality in Sweden will decrease. We help people into our community – not into segregation or exclusion – and we welcome them into the workplace, even if it is with a lower starting salary. It is one of the recipes to access the inequality that we see increases most in Sweden. If you look at what it looked like earlier in the school system, as Mr Birger also mentioned, you can see that it was the principle of proximity that prevailed before we introduced some of our reforms. I don't think it was a recipe for success either. We have been thoughtful when it comes to finding solutions for us to have an equal school so that people have equal opportunities to make their class trip. We have not always landed in the right answer. The answers have not been optimal all the time, but we work on them and develop them. I think that's the important thing. The model that existed before was not a model for equality, but the Alliance's policy, where we give more people a chance on the labour market and protect the free choice of school, is the recipe that I think is Sweden's way forward.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-890	Mr President, I would like to Last week it was Innovationsriksdagen in Borås. Sweden is a strong country for innovation in all measurements. The number of start-ups, so-called start-ups, is still at a good level, you might say. But the honeymoon for those companies that get support and help at the beginning, incubators and so on, can feel very short when they eventually become aware of the taxes, fees and hassles that are an entrepreneur's everyday life. We see, for example, that the processing times and permit cases have increased considerably, regardless of the industry. It doesn't matter if it's advanced operations and industries, but it can be very simple things in your business that you apply for permission for. What is the reason for this? Should we just blame the government? No, this is also true of municipalities, which also have permits. If you look at the total of regulatory and difficult administration for entrepreneurs, it is not good, if we want people who dare to start and who dare and are able to continue with their entrepreneurship. It is about the fact that we have generational shifts in companies that do not really work today. Then I am not just talking about physical generations of children and parents where the children are going to take over, but it is about generation shifts in general where we do not really make this work. Fully active companies do not find other owners when the existing owners are too old. How to start up or just take over businesses in a much simpler way? I will go into a particular sector that has been in focus in recent years, namely the welfare sector. It must be the most dangerous thing to embark on in this country. Sweden should be one of the few countries in the world with such a narrow view from its government of the diversity of forms of association that exist but cannot actually operate on equal terms. In other countries there are many different activities in schools, health care and care that have been around for hundreds of years. But in this country, everyone should be in the same shape for it to work. In the Christian Democrats' business movement, we really describe how important diversity is, both in terms of what companies do and offer and in terms of how they are organised. The government has understood nothing of this. There are proposals on one and the other. But in the end it only benefits limited companies and possibly also those with an individual firm, which are the two most common types of companies. Then you can't do anything else. What is so interesting here and which should be in the genes, not least with the Social Democrats, is the cooperation. From this you can see nothing. When new proposals are made, they do not benefit those who actually want to form cooperatives or economic associations. Mr President, I would like to In the debate on the so-called welfare companies, very little has emerged about the forms of entrepreneurship that ensure that any surplus remains in the company. I find it quite incomprehensible that cooperative companies should not be treated in the same way as limited companies. That only a so-called European cooperative has been established in Sweden, even though they became legal in Sweden over 12 years ago, is perhaps not so strange either. We are talking about owner models, and my colleague from the Left Party spoke about a seminar yesterday on this. It may be very interesting to attend such meetings, but it is also important to get practical politics. In our business movement we describe these models in a concrete way and how to use them. Another part of different models is the SVB form, i.e. limited liability companies with a special dividend limit. If you want to get to grips with profits in welfare and want to use publicly funded care, care and school, then make sure that these forms of company, forms of association, have reasonable conditions to work under. They don't today. There are limitations to everything in terms of their ability to get investment, project support and so on. They can't even go to the bank, because the bank says they've never met this form of association before and don't know how to handle it. Shouldn't you at least be able to go to the Swedish Companies Registration Office to get the help you need? No, obviously you can't. Rules should ensure that it is about equal for entrepreneurs in this country. But we see that this is not the case. When talking about profits, it is rather the case that many are very happy that there is a surplus at all in the business. But perhaps the Social Democrats in particular want to see red numbers and not black ones. They may even prefer to see red-green figures in the light of government cooperation, because it does not seem that any of these parties have understood the conditions of entrepreneurship. If all free schools and all health care companies were to be forced away and if all schools and care were to be run solely by the public, it is, of course, an unprecedented resocialisation in this country. That surreptitiously socialization has been going on since the elections we have seen. Not least, we saw it on Monday when our budget was presented. I would just like to remind you of one thing, when we are constantly hearing what the Alliance Government did during the last parliamentary term, namely that everything bad can never be recognised by the Government. It is always blamed that it was reduced taxes that led to one and the other. I would therefore like to put a counter-question and remind the present government parties that, after the next elections in September, we will say: you were raising taxes all the time, and to what end did you do so? If you do not have a plan for how to use the money, it is hardly an idea to get more money to use. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 1 by the Alliance and Amendment No 18 by the Christian Democrats, in which we also highlight the issue of labour-integrated social enterprises as one of the best opportunities for the long-term unemployed to get to work.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-917	Mr President, I would like to Today we have had the privilege of dealing with the comprehensive report NU12 Nutrition policy. After this debate, we can begin by stating that policy is essentially about how we allocate our common resources. That is how we translate our will into practical politics. As my colleague AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg clearly explained, with an eye to the table work, one can see that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish democrats have both lower ambitions and considerably less resources in this area. Mr President, I would like to There is no lack of laudable initiative in the exercise flora that we are dealing with here today. However, most of them concern things that the government has already launched, where work is under way to translate this into simplifications and improvements for businesses and entrepreneurs. Like Mrs AnnaAnna-Caren, I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject all reservations. For time winning, we do not follow up our own reservations, even though we are of course behind the spirit of them. Mr President, I would like to What we are talking about is the conditions for business and how together we can create conditions for our companies to grow and develop. How can we strengthen Swedish competitiveness? How can we cope with skills supply? How can we ensure that future innovations – innovations that save lives, save the climate and save everyday life – are here in Sweden? However, I would like to dwell on the issue of skills provision for a little while, because I think it is particularly important in this report. When we look at what the responsible authorities and independent institutions say, we see that it is the supply of skills that is key to the growth and development of companies and to investing in the research necessary to break new ground. This is both a growth barrier and a growth opportunity. When I listened to my local radio station P4 Gotland – an excellent local radio if I can say it myself – I could hear that there is a shortage of labour in several professional groups on Gotland. There is a shortage of engineers, technicians, system analysts, mechanics and repairers. These are essential key competences for companies to grow and develop, not least in a broad economy such as the Gotland region, which includes a growing tourism industry, a nationally important industry and leading companies in the fintech sector. This is what it looks like, not only on Gotland but also in the rest of Sweden. At the moment, there are 100,000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market that cannot be filled because companies do not find the right skills. Companies are crying out for labour in terms of both width and tip. Mr President, I would like to In the Smart Industry Action Plan, the Government specifically identifies the supply of skills as a priority area for Swedish companies to be able to be world leaders, including through a knowledge boost in industry and through investments in Testbed Sweden in order to build the infrastructure we need to create new knowledge and innovations. Add to this the Government's efforts on adult education and higher education, with 93,000 more places for education by 2021. In the midst of a burning financial crisis a few years ago, Mr President, the bourgeois government cut off 40 000 places in municipal adult education, even though we know how indispensable lifelong learning is for the individual and for the business community. If there is anything we know about the labour market of the future, Mr President, it is that it will require us to go between the school bench and the workplace and back to the school bench in order to gain new knowledge and skills. In such a situation, the public must take responsibility and invest in more high-quality training places. It is therefore quite incomprehensible that the bourgeois parties say no to the government's proposal that we should have university qualifications in all upper secondary school programmes, even though this is what industry and industry say is needed. Indeed, it is an unimaginable policy if you want the business community to grow and develop. Social Democratic policy for business is precisely about building conditions for Swedish competitiveness based on knowledge and not on competing with low wages. Mr President, I would like to It is in SMEs that new jobs are being created at a rapid pace. The targeted policy that this government implements and has implemented during its term of office is to make it easier for SMEs to start up, to be able to operate and to grow. Grow support, which Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg mentioned, is about a discount on the employer's contribution that allows one-man companies to hire their first employee. The government also goes ahead with proposals to strengthen the security of those who dare to start a business, so that they will have the same right to sickness benefit, parental insurance and so on. Furthermore, we have the agreements that the government has made with SKL to digitise large parts of the government contacts that especially regulatory industries have. The Swedish Companies Registration Office has also been given a mandate to receive annual reports digitally. These are policies that make life easier for small businesses. It enables them to focus on their business idea and on being able to grow. Finally, Mr President, since this government took office, 250 000 more have a job to go to – 150 000 of them in private business. Government debt is the lowest since 1977, and there is a surplus in public finances. Optimism, willingness to grow and invest – both in SMEs and in large industries – is greater than ever. In this debate, we have demonstrated the whole of enterprise policy. The infrastructure and the education system do not work in Sweden, and it cannot grow and develop. An offensive and effective industrial policy is crucial for Sweden to continue to be a leading country in work and in welfare. Should Sweden be at the forefront of automation, in digitalisation, in the new technology that will revolutionise our everyday lives and our economy? I think so, Mr President. We're on our way. In collaboration between industry and politics, and between academia and public administration, joint responsibility is made for companies across Sweden to be able to grow and develop.
i-545e37c8b9bbd76d-938	Mr President, I would like to I forgot to reserve, so I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 13.
