i-15119d23cfb71e90-0	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to provide support to secure long-term ferry traffic across Kvarken. I agree with Jonas Sjöstedt that there are many links between Västerbotten and Ostrobothnia and that with a good ferry connection there are great environmental benefits, because the alternative is to drive the long detour via Haparanda-Tornio. However, a starting point for Swedish transport policy for a long time has been that interregional and international transport should primarily be conducted without state subsidies. New media data also suggest that the municipalities in Umeå and Vaasa have found a solution where they jointly finance the ferry. Decisions are expected in the spring. Infrastructure in Umeå AB applied on 22 May 2017 for state aid for market adaptation of Umeå Hamn AB's facilities in Holmsund with SEK 300 million. According to the application, the support will co-finance an investment plan for measures within the port area in Umeå port for a total of more than SEK 800 million. The application that the Government decided earlier this year to submit without taking any action therefore concerns investments in port and not the financing of a new Kvarken ferry. The measures covered by the application are those where the financial responsibility lies with the port owner Umeå kommun, as the owner of the municipal company INAB and its subsidiary Umeå Hamn AB. Furthermore, the measures in the application do not fall within the purposes of the financial framework for measures in the State transport infrastructure during the period 2018-2029. For the government, it is important that the whole of Sweden is given good opportunities to grow and develop. Therefore, Sweden has proposed to the European Commission that the existing core network corridor Scandinavia – the Mediterranean, which today only extends to Stockholm, should be extended all the way up to the Swedish-Finnish border at Haparanda. This is an important message for several infrastructure projects in northern Sweden in particular. If the proposal is implemented, they will have improved opportunities to participate in the ongoing corridor-related development work.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are many links between Sweden and Finland. There are historical ties and extensive trade, and many have relatives on both sides of the Baltic Sea. However, the communications are not designed to have an exchange between northern Sweden and northern Finland. Often you have to take the long detour around Haparanda or go to Stockholm or Helsinki when travelling over or shipping your goods. In the Baltic Sea today there is only one ferry line north of Roslagen that operates all year round, namely the ferry between Umeå and Vaasa. It is therefore of great regional importance, not only for these two towns, but together for these regions in northern Sweden and northern Finland. The alternative to this ferry service is for many to travel for ten hours by car or bus around the Gulf of Bothnia. For business, the ferry is of great importance; it can be said to be borne by the needs of industry for transport across Kvarken. It is also the case that passenger traffic has increased significantly since the purchase of an old but functional ferry. There is a great need here. There is no need, however, for operating aid to be provided, but for traffic to be carried if you have a modern ferry. However, this requires a greater investment. This interest has involved many people in northern Sweden and northern Finland. Both the municipalities concerned are prepared to provide substantial financial support. It is unusual for municipalities to enter with such large amounts of money, which underlines the importance of this. The Finnish Government – that is, the Finnish State – has also clearly indicated that it is prepared to provide funds to find a solution to ensure this traffic. For those of us who come from Västerbotten, this is of great importance. We see that the companies are doing well. We see that the tourists are starting to come. You hear again Finnish on the street in Umeå, just as you should do. Then the question is whether it is the task of the state to help with this. I think it is. I don't think it's good enough to say that it's good if something happens but that you're not going to help. Firstly, ferry services in the southern part of the Baltic Sea actually have a substantial subsidy by maintaining duty-free sales for this ferry service in connection with EU entry. This deprives both states of incredible tax revenue, in practice to keep shipping companies under arms. There is no corresponding indirect support for ferry services in other parts of the Baltic Sea, so it is wrong to say that there is some sort of equal competition. Such competition has not existed since the entry into force of the EU, but has unilaterally affected ferry services that do not operate via the Åland Islands. I therefore think it is reasonable to say that the conditions are different. Secondly, it should be in the interest of the Swedish state to retain the great environmental benefits of people not flying, driving a car or driving a truck and also being able to shorten the journey by several hundred kilometres. It is no coincidence that both the business community and the municipalities of northern Sweden are interested in finding solutions to this. I believe that this is a national interest. There is another point that I think the government should reflect on, namely how it sounded before the last elections. I have here a copy of an article written by none other than Anders Ygeman, who at the time was chairman of the Transport Committee, if I remember correctly. He points out in the article how little the bourgeois government is involved in the communications in northern Sweden and that nothing is done to secure ferry traffic over Kvarken, but that there will indeed be a second time when the Social Democrats come to power and that the Social Democrats will secure this traffic. To be honest, however, I do not see any difference between these two governments. I think that the government should help make it a good overall solution. I also think it is reasonable to consider this to be a national interest.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-18	Madam President, I would like I share the commitment to the Kvarken ferry and to better relations between Sweden and Finland, but I do not share the view that there is no difference between this government and the former. Firstly, we should remember that the government, with the strong support of not least Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party, has ensured that we now have 100 billion more to invest in infrastructure than the previous government had. Although we are not finished with the national plan, Trafikverket proposes extensive and important investments – not least those requested by representatives in Umeå, Västerbotten and Norrbotten. Surely there is a huge difference between who you vote for. We used to have a government that said that it is unprofitable to invest in rail, for example, and showed little or no interest in the communications and infrastructure in northern Sweden. For example, the previous government removed Norrbotniabanan from the national plan. From the government's side, we also – at my initiative – not so long ago extended the possibility of EU funding in the whole of northern Sweden. In fact, in the past, with the good memory of the bourgeois government, it was not possible to give some projects north of Stockholm the opportunity to take part in or even compete for the EU structural funds or other funds available. We opened this opportunity because we are a government for the whole country. I know that Jonas Sjöstedt also shares this vision. With this, quite different conditions are provided for projects in northern Sweden, right up to Haparanda, to be involved in fighting for the common resources that exist within the European Union. I think it's an important signal. The last time the government decided on project applications that had been submitted, I would like to recall that we approved eleven out of twelve. The rejection of the twelfth was not on administrative grounds but because there were other errors in the application. We look favourably on finding projects where we can jointly increase the resources that we have set aside in the EU. This, of course, facilitates the conditions for projects also in the case of Kvarken traffic. I note, as I say in the interpellation response, that representatives in both Umeå and Vaasa have now pointed out that they want to take responsibility for the actual financing of the ferry, then with help and preferential assistance from the European Union. Of course, I have also had discussions with my Finnish colleague, Anne Berner, about Swedish cooperation in the field ofFinnish. And only the signal that we gave by extending the core network corridor and some other initiatives that we take dramatically increases the conditions for improved Swedish-Finnish cooperation in the future. I will of course continue to engage in dialogue and discussion with representatives both in Umeå and in the whole of northern Sweden, because, once again, I share Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party's view that we need to improve communications. I also think it is important that we take more initiatives in this area, whether they are the responsibility of the municipality, the region or the state. The reason for the rejection of the previous application is simply that we, as the government, cannot go in and invest in the port area. But I can imagine that there may be a better dialogue in the future that will give us reason to look at new applications from Umeå.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I take note of the last thing the Minister said, that there are opportunities in the future too. I think it is reasonable for both the Finnish state and the Swedish state to contribute a small part. It is likely that the possibility of obtaining EU support will be increased as soon as possible, even if the state is behind it. It shows that you believe in it and are prepared to contribute to it. The Finnish state is, and I think the Swedish state can be too. Whether there will then be support to rebuild the port or to build the new ferry can be discussed. Both costs end up in Umeå municipality. I think that is quite unreasonable, because these are such enormous long-term investment costs. The benefits come to the whole of northern Sweden, not just Umeå. For Umeå municipality it is of course incredibly important to have this traffic. However, the investments now required are so large that they risk crowding out other important investments for a very expansive municipality that needs to invest a lot and that this leads to having to privatise activities that are basically to be kept under the authority of the municipality. For the state, this is change, to put it simply. Beautiful words and support are good and appreciated, but it would be even better if, like the Finnish state, we were prepared to help solve this within the framework of the state budget. In this way, you will be able to both expand tourism and redirect freight flows in the long term. This is when you get the really big environmental benefits with a new modern ferry and can plan for this traffic to be permanent in the future. Then I agree that the previous government was bad at or directly uninterested in investing in northern Sweden. The major strategic railway investment Norrbotniabanan was removed from the plan. That's what we're gonna build. It's incredibly important. That is one of the reasons why it is important that we do not have a bourgeois Minister for Infrastructure in the future. But I would like to see that you build it all the way to Luleå and that you do it a little faster. Now they have put it in a waiting list in the infrastructure plan and are actually only building half of Norrbotniabanan. I think it is when these investments are made that they will have the greatest impact – the greatest environmental benefit, the greatest economic benefit and the greatest benefit for tourism in the future. I would therefore urge the Minister to continue the dialogue and discuss the possibilities of finding a common solution with the Finnish State. The Left Party will be happy to contribute. After all, we have had budget cooperation in recent years to find such solutions. Then one can certainly discuss the exact model and what should be supported and when. But this crucial investment must not be jeopardised, and it is reasonable to share the cost of it.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-35	Madam President, I would like I have signed up for this interesting debate because I was a questioner last summer, in August 2017, when it comes to the Kvarken traffic. I am not the first Liberal to ask questions about Kvarken. My colleague Maria Lundqvist-Brömster-Brömster has often returned to the question. I think there is a slightly bigger perspective on this with the traffic over Kvarken, which is actually also about how we build sustainable transport. There is also a need in that part of Sweden to obtain goods and use shipping to develop transport. I am thinking of the Blue Road, which runs all the way from Norway to Russia. If the road could continue in a bridge over Kvarken, about a million people who are active and living in the area could use it. In addition, we have a lot of freight transport. With the answer that I received to my question last year, I am a little confused about the Government's answer today, because I got another answer. In its reply to me, the Government referred to the EU's Motorway concept and that two countries are required to make an application. I am then curious about what the Government and the Government have done to find some form of new concepts and new thinking about this. What efforts have the Government and the Government made to address the need for freight transport, the need to develop maritime transport and, in particular, cross-border transport? Traffic analysis made an evaluation of how Sweden has worked in national plans with the very cross-border traffic. It was noted that this is an issue which almost completely eludes its absence. What are the flows between our countries, and how do we ensure that Europe helps to find solutions and funding? In general, I believe that shipping is a question of the future. The Government has not mentioned the good strategy to come. However, the national plan offers opportunities to take a greater interest in these transport issues. Knowing that Finland is also involved in the matter, I wonder how Sweden and Finland have joined forces in this matter. I think it is important to provide greater opportunities for transport and, as the interpellier, to ask what the alternative is. The alternative is to drive from Haparanda down the Finnish coast. Why not take this opportunity to see how opportunities could be developed here? Is there a role for the Swedish state to play here? And how do we ensure climate-smart sustainable transport, where shipping has a clear role to play?
i-Gp3XJKk51f88RZvkozdD3y	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for your contribution to the debate. There is, of course, some work to be done on the bourgeois side in terms of responsibility. It is not only, as we mentioned earlier, 100 billion less that was spent on infrastructure, which means that we are now seriously underinvested, not least in the railways, but also in the road network and, above all, in maritime transport. In order to develop shipping, as the government wants to do, it was absolutely crucial to resolve the issue of tonnage tax, as this government did, not the former. This means that we now see an increased flag in Sweden. The Swedish merchant fleet is growing. It does so thanks to a successful policy from this government that gives some hope for the future and faith in the development of Swedish shipping, which is probably so important in northern Sweden and the Swedish Finnish connections. I recently went icebreakers between Luleå and Piteå. It is absolutely crucial that we have a modern icebreaker fleet, so that cold winters do not make it difficult for Sweden to make the transition we need to make in the transport system to climate-smart transport, not least by sea. We all know that we are facing quite large and extensive new investment needs to maintain capacity, and it is my firm belief that it is a national responsibility. It cannot be a responsibility only for the region or the industry in northern Sweden, but we must bear that together. It is important for Sweden's basic industry and Sweden's exports. The national plan will also include maritime transport. In Trafikverket's proposal – I stick to it because we are not finished yet – there are both fairway intensifications and other things that strengthen shipping conditions in the future. It goes without saying in the good strategy that we are pointing out shipping as an important element, but if this is to work, we need interconnection and co-operation between roads on land and roads at sea. That's why string thinking is crucial. The objective must be that we can have digital controlled transport from a 74 tonne truck on BK4 roads to transhipment to rail or straight out to automatic transhipment to a port. If this is to work, we must include both port operators, where there is often municipal ownership, as well as maritime operators and the rest of the transport industry. It is precisely this work that I and the government have been doing in the last six months. We have, for the first time ever, called Umeå Port and all other ports to the government to discuss the ports' part in the development of both passenger and freight traffic. It is necessary for us to recognise the importance of ports in order to make the link work and to be able to develop Swedish shipping more. However, if this is to be possible, more resources are needed– it is part of it. 100 billion more is good, but I think most regional actors would like even more. I would like to remind you that I basically think it should be a state commitment and that we should not have too much municipal co-financing for what is the state's mission in terms of infrastructure. This money is needed in childcare, preschool and health care, and it is therefore important that the state is clear. Then we will have to give priority to the framework we have. If we can increase resources, we will. Jonas Sjöstedt pointed in his interpellation to the opportunities for EU co-financing that exist and where government participation is required. I have had a dialogue both with my Finnish counterpart and with regional representatives in northern Sweden on the conditions for increasing funding opportunities through EU support. I note that both the Municipality of Vaasa and the Municipality of Umeå have taken the initiative themselves, which I welcome.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-51	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are living at a time when it is urgent to invest so that we reduce fossil emissions and in that way do what we can to prevent climate change. Investing in modern transport that does not require fossil fuels is crucial. That is why a new ferry is needed, which is why we need to expand capacity so that the alternative is not to drive an extra 1,000 kilometres by truck and that is why we need to combine different modes of transport. This investment is a well-motivated investment, also for climate reasons. I would like to remind you that the government felt it was important to build a new airport in Sälen for large sums of money, which was a rather dubious investment from a climate point of view. Compared to it, this investment would make very clear climate benefits. There is a difference if you are positive in general terms or if you are a pusher. The Finnish state has almost been a driving force for finding solutions and has been prepared to contribute with investment. The Swedish state offers benevolent statements but does not take financial responsibility for it to work. I think that's a shame. I have to say that in this area the Social Democrats were better in the past. In the run-up to the last election, Anders Ygeman was very clear. He suggested that the Swedish government would act to secure traffic if we had another government. Of course, many perceived this as a promise — a shared responsibility to do so. Being able to free money from the European Union for the large, heavy investments that exist in the north and getting some tax refunds from the European Union is crucial, but it is much easier if we get the state to convince the European Union that these are strategic projects. I would like to say to the government and the Social Democrats: Get loose now, and invest in the communications also in northern Sweden and to secure ferry traffic over Kvarken!
i-15119d23cfb71e90-58	Madam President, I would like This is how the Government answered my question last autumn: what opportunities exist for TEN-T financing later in the day is difficult to say today. Now it has been quite a few months, so it would be interesting to hear from the Government whether the situation has cleared up. I believe that the issue of freight transport, passenger transport and the importance of shipping is extremely important. We are waiting with great excitement for the national plan or letter from the government to see how the government has discussed the possibilities. If goods are to be transported in the northern parts of Sweden in a climate-smart way, we must also include shipping in this. That is why I am taking part in the debate today. I have received an answer before and have waited with excitement for the Government to further develop these thoughts. The Finnish Government has been much more active in this matter and has tried to look at the possibilities. I would like to come back to what measures the Government has taken in EU cooperation, based on the response I received last autumn, that the Motorways of the Sea concept requires two countries, etcetera. How can we continue to work on these issues? By starting to highlight the questions from this perspective, answers can be given to many other questions. Maritime transport is incredibly important for the transport of the future. This applies not only to Kvarken, but also to our other shipping, not least to Gotland. It is also about relations between Sweden and Finland, where one can make a common cause, and about seeing the flows I pointed out, from Norway, across Sweden, to Finland and on to Russia. Then you have large geographical areas where you can get transport that is much more climate-smart. I hope, Madam President, that the situation will be clarified and that the Government will take the opportunity to answer the questions.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-65	Madam President, I would like Nina Lundström! I thought I answered, not least when I indicated that, unlike when, among others, the Liberals were in government, we are now extending the core network corridor to include northern Sweden. There is a dramatic increase in the conditions for EU co-financing in northern Sweden compared to what previously existed. This in itself gives completely different conditions. Together with the dialogue I have had with my Finnish colleague, it is an example of how we now strengthen Swedish-Finnish cooperation and the opportunities for good traffic in the Bothnian corridor. Maritime transport will have a greater role in both the national plan and the good strategy than it might have ever had in the past. The simple reason for this is that if we are to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation and be able to become that permanent world exhibition with the implementation of new eco-smart technology, we must make use of shipping. It is crowded as a result of the years of underinvestment. It is still a tough challenge to ensure that truck traffic is fossil-free, whether we invest in electric roads or on biofuel incorporation and HVO. Then we must develop maritime transport to a greater extent, and this has been a clear ambition for the government. Let's do it. Now the flag is increasing, and there will be more projects than in the past that are close to shipping in the national plan. It is an important part for Sweden to expand shipping, regardless of whether we are talking about northern Sweden or for that matter about the important port in Gothenburg, where the majority of our exports are going right now. As far as resources are concerned, I would like to say to Jonas Sjöstedt that although the Left Party often seems to have more resources than many others, we have jointly supported the budgetary conditions that exist, and that is 100 billion more. When I have thought about what this 100 billion will do in the national plan, I have listened clearly to the wishes of the regions. Clear priorities have been made regionally of what is most important, and this will guide government efforts.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-71	Madam President, I would like Emma Wallrup has asked me three questions relating to transport services and accessibility in public transport. Questions about the usability and accessibility of the transport system for people with disabilities have a high priority within the government. In May 2017, the bill was submitted National target and direction for disability policy. Based on the focus of the bill, the Government has commissioned Trafikanalys to identify barriers to accessibility within the public transport system for people with disabilities. The assignment must be presented by 29 March 2019. The Government has also commissioned the Agency for Participation to define and analyse the quality of the performance of travel services from both a user and a performance perspective. This assignment shall be reported by 30 November 2018. The service meets an important need for a large group of people who, as a result of disability, are unable to use public transport. The responsibility for organising transport services rests with the municipalities, or the regional public transport authority in the county, if the municipality has transferred responsibility to the municipality. The Finnish Transport Service Act stipulates that each municipality is responsible for ensuring that good quality transport services are organised within the municipality and, if there are special reasons, between the municipality and another municipality. I believe that this principle is right, because it gives a local and regional basis to the responsibility for ensuring that the service is of good quality. Swedish Public Transport conducts a major survey every year that measures the passenger's perceived quality of the last journey on the service or sick trip that has been carried out. The survey covers about 40,000 people. The search for 2017 shows that both travel and sick passengers are generally very satisfied with their trips. 90 per cent of both the passengers and the passengers in the sick state that they are satisfied with both the order and the trip taken together. In October 2016, an investigation was set up to analyse the current regulatory framework and propose changes or new rules to remove obstacles to effective coordination and organisation of specific passenger transport services, i.e. travel, sick trips and school trips. The mandate also includes reviewing the need for a government authority to carry out regular statistical monitoring at national level. The assignment shall be reported by 30 June 2018. According to the Public Transport Act, the regional transport supply programmes must include an account of the interchange points and routes that must be fully accessible to all travellers. The government assumes that this information is also provided to passengers in an appropriate way. Based on the Government's decided focus on disability policy, several analyses and investigations are ongoing with different perspectives on the transport service and accessibility to the public transport system. These issues are a high priority and I will closely monitor the outcome of these investigations.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-76	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I put this interpellation after organising a local democracy week during the last Almedals week, when I instead met a number of actors at home in Uppsala. Among other things, I met functional rights who told me that the surveys that are being conducted throughout the country are not correct. We have boasted that 80 per cent are satisfied in Uppsala Municipality. But that's not true. According to functional rights, about 50 percent are satisfied. In Uppsala there is a red-green majority and the Left Party is included. They have begun to discuss this and to address it. Politicians have looked at this even before I organised this week of local democracy. More demands will now be placed on procurement and these dialogues will be improved. But it is very important that we listen to the users. What happened was that these surveys asked about only certain things. They asked what the last trip had been like. Nor were they taken with them who cannot travel at all because it is carpooling. It's causing a lot of trouble. Previously, the transport service has been under the Social Services Act. Then one had a better overall perspective and was better able to take care of the situation for each individual. When the transport service has now been transferred to the Public Transport Act, it is seen more as public transport. A whole series of stories have come to me from different parts of the country. They are about autistic children who regularly stand outside their school and wait one to two hours without a car, and there is no adult nearby. These are children in need of security. I spoke the day before yesterday with an older woman. She can't travel with the travel service because you have carpooling. She has missed two departures on the train because she did not arrive on time for the train station. It is a completely unreasonable situation for disabled people to live in such a way in Sweden. That's not good. I think we need to look a little bit in the rearview mirror to see how we previously built the country so that everyone could participate in society on equal terms. It is true that 50 per cent of people are satisfied with the service, according to the Right to function. So it is not that it absolutely does not work. But the major problems that exist are very serious. It should not be so messy for any person in Sweden when you are going to get to and from school or leisure activities. That is why I think this is an issue that we would really have to look at, and it is good that there are investigations going on. But these surveys are very difficult. We also see in the Minister's reply that Swedish Public Transport's surveys show very high customer satisfaction – 90 per cent. This is even more than in Uppsala Municipality. But there are a lot of stories from all over the country that say the opposite. I therefore believe that we also need to take a look at how the dialogue is conducted, so that we can really follow up and steer up what is not working and find better forms of work to make it work.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-85	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Wallrup for her commitment. This is, as I said, an area in which there is quite a lot of investigative work going on. The reasons are precisely those mentioned by Emma Wallrup. There is potential for improvement. Although approximately 90 per cent are satisfied according to the Swedish Public Transport Survey, there is of course always reason to review whether it is the right division of responsibilities and whether there are the right efforts. This is one of the reasons why the government set up the investigation that looks at both travel services, medical trips and school trips. Once that is said, however, we should remember that it is important to maintain the division of responsibilities. It is a municipal responsibility to ensure that the service is of good quality. If we at government level were to start introducing rules on travel guarantees and the like, I think we are a little dangerous out there. Travel services should be a right and not a customer service. We must therefore think about what we do when we propose various improvements. That is one of the reasons why I myself would like to await the investigation that is under way. It will be ready for summer – 30 June. The investigator and secretariat have conducted a proper dialogue with the disability movement, but of course also with the actors and operators in a good way to see if better synergies can be found, but not least to use a traveller's perspective. Then I think there is more to be done when it comes to procurement. There is no doubt, not least with the new procurement rules now in force, that we do not always have to go at the lowest price. It is possible for local and regional procurements to make demands on the basis of fair conditions and for minimum prices not to be indicative. Instead, of course, satisfied customers and good treatment must be absolutely crucial and this responsibility must be taken on a local and regional level. And you know it's done in a lot of places. When it comes to how the surveys are designed, it is of course not the government that designs them. How they are designed, Swedish Public Transport or others who conduct surveys are responsible for. Nevertheless, I thought it was good to mention in the interpellation answer that according to the Swedish Public Transport study, which still includes 40 000 travellers, 90 percent say that they are actually satisfied with both the order and with the trip taken together. I am also saying this a little so that, at a time when we often want to find shortcomings in publicly carried out activities, we should remember that it is nevertheless a fantastic exchange from the welfare state with opportunities for travel and sick trips made to this extent and that we are actually pleased that this is done in an efficient and jointly organised way. There are, of course, conditions for doing this better, and that is one of the reasons why we also have extensive investigative activities. I also hope that Emma Wallrup will take note of this report when it comes in time for the summer – 30 June. Then we can surely jointly ensure, along with many other good forces, that we get an even better exchange of sick trips, travel services and, for that matter, school trips ahead.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-92	Madam President, I would like It is very laudable that the procurement rules have improved so that we can make social demands. The municipality of Uppsala has said that it appreciates it and will review and work accordingly. It's important. We also have a money bag that should be enough, and then you might still take the lowest price in many municipalities. Therefore, we will have to work for more resources for welfare in the long term. It is a matter of priority whether we should have pleasures, big arenas and so on or whether we should invest in the most basic needs for everyone. Here I think we all need to rethink and use our hearts more in politics. In fact, as far as the surveys are concerned, I am very concerned that the Minister can stand here so calmly and refer to the 90% who are satisfied. We have just heard from the Right to function that 50 per cent are not satisfied and that, for example, the questions in the survey in Uppsala municipality are misplaced. It is common in politics that one has an upward loyalty – to one's employers, to the one who puts the budget and to the politicians above one – because in a society with fairly poor respect for each citizen's skills to contribute is more a climber than a democrat. I would honestly see that as a problem today, if I may be a little sharp. We need to review our entire political system, in which we favour the citizens' voice. Sweden is a very democratic country and has come a long way, but there is much to do. The more I work in the political system, I see that there is a wide range of clots in the system in order for the needs of social services and the needs of travel passengers to reach the politicians. This is shown not least by this example, where the right to function thus has a completely different view even if the users in that organisation have responded to the surveys. This is really serious. These are autistic children who regularly have to wait for maybe two hours after school because the car does not arrive. It's not okay; I don't think any of us can accept this really. However, this information must reach the decision-makers, and obviously there are shortcomings in this. I would like to make it quite clear that we need better follow-up systems throughout the welfare system, and also within the transport service, which we can trust. We need to ask the right questions and have a continuous dialogue with the association "Functional Rights" about what questions you should ask to really get a reliable result. For example, they point to the fact that you only ask for the last trip. So I see this as a major challenge, and it is an example of how our entire representative political system needs to be improved. The fact that we are going to be re-elected may rather benefit a career path, unfortunately, than it benefits being real democrats – working with democracy and with a strong interest in how we can improve for the people. Many of us still have it with us, but that the other side takes over too much I see as a big problem that we need to look over and think over. This is an example of just how wrong it can be.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-98	Madam President, I would like I will honestly say that I do not quite understand Emma Wallrup's argumentation. In fact, I believe that everyone in the Swedish Parliament is committed to the preferences of their voters and their parties. In fact, my experience is that everyone, regardless of their political colour, is deeply involved. Then, of course, you take different local examples to drive your ideas and thoughts. The government's starting point in this regard must, of course, be the national statistics available. Should it be the case that Uppsala does not feel listened to when it comes to how the transport service is carried out, which is a municipal responsibility, it is of course a responsibility that should be located locally – municipally in Uppsala or regionally within Uppsala region. However, evidence that there may be shortcomings, whether in Uppsala or elsewhere, is one of the reasons why the government takes overall responsibility. We cannot do this from the point of view of hearsay, but we must have a proper basis – and that is what we are developing. That is why we now have three major investigations and one that takes a concerted approach to structural issues as well. I myself have worked a lot with issues related to functional rights and am deeply involved in all people's opportunities to be free and strong individuals and get space and space in this society on equal terms. Then society must also adapt and create the conditions necessary for a person who has a disability or does not have access to all opportunities to have that chance, and it is about how we design society – what rules we have for how public transport is designed, what procurement rules we have and what responsibility we give to those who procure to also design transport in the right way. That's one of the reasons why we now have this investigation. It shall take a proper look at this and shall consult the organisations at national level in order to take that knowledge on board. I also know that it may sometimes be the case that local and regional budgets, under pressure, may not always be seen to be able to meet all the needs. That is why we must also pay attention to this at national level, and that is one of the reasons why we now have this state inquiry. I am convinced, once again, that Emma Wallrup and many others will also feel that responsibility when we get the result on 30 June, when the investigation will present its results. I also hope that all consultation bodies and others will be deeply involved in how we can improve both travel services and school trips as well as sick trips. Basically, it is about what resources we have in society and how we choose to prioritise. I believe that this is a fundamental both moral and democratic question of the right of all people to participate fully in society. That is why it is important that we not only provide a good basis for decisions, but also take the political debate that will be required to have resources so that we can ensure that we have quality transport to all citizens.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I am pleased if the Minister takes this seriously and perhaps especially in the dialogue with user organisations listens carefully to how to design the basis so that it is reliable. Because it is very serious if we believe that we are making a qualitatively good effort when we are not doing so and if we believe that we have regulations that benefit these groups but do not. So it is incredibly important that the investigation is really careful to listen. I know that the right to function stated that they have tried to have a dialogue with officials and politicians about getting a better survey and that they have tried to show the shortcomings but that it has been very difficult for them to hear. That is why I would like to highlight this very clearly. I believe that the Minister has a genuine commitment here, and I hope that it is real and not ultimately budget-crambling in the sense that we do not have the courage to produce the right basis. I believe that the cowardice of not even having the courage to map out the needs of welfare, because you are afraid that the money will not be enough, is fatal. Then it is better to know how big gaps and gaps exist and to put up a map for how we will get to grips with them in the long term. It is better to know that we are not coming all the way now but may be able to take some corrective measures that are correct – because we have the right basis. Then we can allocate resources in the long term so that they get where they are going in society. If we do not even dare to produce reliable evidence, however, we will never get through, and it will only benefit a certain party – the Swedish Democrats – and discontent votes, because they see through the whole system. We can't afford that. After the next elections, we cannot afford to have more Swedish democrats in Parliament who are undermining the political system.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-108	Madam President, I would like I do not think that, in substance, there are any major differences between Emma Wallrup's view and my view. We are both committed to having good quality travel service. From the national level, we ensure, through the investigations I have presented here, that there will be a factual and thorough review. One should have a dialogue with the stakeholders and be able to account for it, so that we can have a factual discussion about how contentment is, what the efforts have been and what the cost distribution looks like. It can certainly differ in different parts of the country; we have heard examples from Uppsala, and at home in my Småland the situation is slightly different. When the government gives its opinion, however, we will do so on the basis of our knowledge of what satisfaction is at national level, what efforts and resources are available and what responsibility the various municipalities and regions take. Finally, I think that is where the issue will eventually land: are there the right conditions for municipalities and regions to take responsibility? Are the right priorities being set? In essence, of course, it is both a matter of political will and of what resources are available, and here I firmly believe that we must have a strong society in order to have a good quality travel service and be able to offer people with disabilities the right opportunities in society. We must have a strong society that has good resources. That is why I do not believe in major tax cuts, and that is why I do not believe in liberalisation and privatisation. That is why I believe in joint financing and clear democratic control that ensures that we provide support where it is actually needed. It is an important part of democracy, and it becomes an important issue not least in this electoral movement. I therefore assume that this will be an important issue to discuss in the coming months as well. Thank you for the debate.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-112	Madam President, I would like Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether I am prepared, in the forthcoming proposal to Parliament, to work on a right to judicial review and an opportunity for animal owners to sell their animals themselves unless the deficiencies are acute with regard to the animals. The government has recently decided on a bill with a proposal for a completely new, updated and modernised Animal Welfare Act. The decision was taken at the government meeting on 8 March this year. The bill has been submitted to the Riksdag, and the Riksdag has announced that the proposal will be debated in the Chamber on 14 June. Legal certainty for keepers is a very important issue, and I am therefore pleased to have the opportunity to debate this subject here today. With regard to the first question, I believe that Mr Danielsson wants the control authorities to refer a decision to the courts in certain cases to take care of animals. So, if I understand Mr Danielsson correctly, if an animal keeper opposes a decision on immediate disposal, then there are certain other circumstances at hand. But I find it a little difficult to understand exactly what other circumstances should exist and what Danielsson, for example, adds to the concept. The current Animal Welfare Act regulates the circumstances under which an animal is to be disposed of by the control authorities. It also regulates the situations in which an animal may be the subject of immediate care. Immediate care may be necessary in situations where an animal is suffering. Under the law in force, an appeal may be lodged against the decision of a control authority to dispose of an animal. The Court of Justice examines the substance of the appeal, i.e. whether it examines whether the authority has landed in a correct decision or whether there is a need to amend the decision. A person who is dissatisfied with a control authority's decision may also request inhibition. This means that the court hearing the appeal may also decide that the control authority's decision to dispose of animals shall not be valid until further notice. It is therefore possible for an animal keeper to have a decision on the disposal of animals overtested. There is also a possibility of preventing such a decision from being implemented immediately. On the question of the possibility for an animal owner to sell his own animals, the Government's proposal for the new Animal Welfare Act actually contains a certain possibility. The Government's proposal means that a person who has received an animal ban may be allowed to phase out his or her husbandry himself in some cases. For example, he or she may sell his or her own animals. According to the legislative proposal, when a decision on a ban on animals is taken, the control authority will also decide whether to take care of the animals or whether to allow the keeper to phase out his or her own husbandry. It is of great importance that society can intervene when it is necessary to protect animals that are in harm's way. However, the ability of the control authorities to decide on the disposal of animals and the prohibition of animals imposes significant restrictions on the rights and freedoms of individuals. The government has therefore struck a very careful balance between these interests. I believe that with this proposal we have achieved a good balance between them.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-122	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The debate we are now having is important, but it is difficult and very sensitive. Who wants to stand up for the one who treats animals badly and who is an animal tormentor? Therefore, the state authorities and animal welfare inspectors are always given strong powers, and they are in a very superior position to the farmer who, sometimes after anonymous notifications, is suspected of deficiencies in his animal husbandry. We fully agree that, in the case of domestic animals that are in serious distress, responsible civil servants must be able to intervene urgently and, for example, without warning, forced dogs, horses or cattle. Then there is no time for judicial review. In these situations, when the barn is empty and the animals are slaughtered or installed at large running costs, a farmer may appeal the Authority's decision to the administrative court. He or she almost never gets it right. The Authority has photo documentation and veterinary certification, and the court primarily examines the form, not the substance. It is therefore not a district court but an administrative court. What I am highlighting is not this – when care is justified – but all other situations, and there are many of them. It is about the fact that for months or years there has been a dialogue between animal welfare inspectors and farmers on whether animal husbandry is good enough or not. There has been an unreasonable practice that the Minister and the Government have removed, which I very much welcome. However, this practice has been in force for decades: If, for the third time, the County Administrative Board has asked the farmer to take action, whether large or small, the authority and the state have the right to strike without prior warning with the manslaughter team to forcely take care of all animals. This has also happened at times. Mosquitoes have been hunted with machine guns; proportions have not been reasonable. The state suddenly comes to the farm with several inspectors, veterinarians, police, mass media and animal transport. The animals are transported to a hothouse where they can stand for many months before being slaughtered or sold. This means very high costs, which the farmer has to pay. Not only does he or she get his or her reputation destroyed, but often the economy is also destroyed. There are many who have gone bankrupt. So there is punishment if you have deficiencies in your animal husbandry. In addition, animals are often sold at very low prices. This has now been corrected by the government, and I give it to the Minister for Agriculture. The farmer should be able to sell his own animals to a greater extent when there is not an acute danger but when to stop. The penalty for farmers in these cases, as I said, is very severe. If you have treated the animals far too badly, it should be severe punishment. But sometimes people who have struggled and worked hard and done what they have been able to do, and it has become an assessment sport to determine whether it has been enough or not. Then the punishment can be very harsh. Animal welfare inspectors are sometimes young and ambitious with strong pressure to intervene. They often have views even at the level of detail. The authority's power is great. The animal owner is at a very disadvantage, and not even the LRF can or always wants to do so much. Who wants to defend an animal tormentor? Farmers rightly feel that they are at a very disadvantage, and some crack mentally and economically. There have been suicides and other things. My point with the interpellation is that the cases should be brought to the district court when there are serious questions coming up and there is time.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-132	Madam President, I would like I agree with Staffan Danielsson: this is an important issue and, in many cases, also a sensitive one. It may be difficult to have a discussion on these issues. It is dramatic and revolutionary to have their animals cared for. I understand the situation people end up in when they are forced to change and even close down their activities. It is easy to imagine the grief you must feel when you find yourself in such a situation. It may also be difficult to fully understand the subversive situation and the lack it must entail for farmers, for example, who are affected by this. However, I am also convinced that it is not with an easy heart that the inspectors and county boards make this kind of interventional decision. It is in very serious situations that these decisions are made, and there are also different interests against each other. It is about the interest in treating people with respect and consideration and not acting unnecessarily or too forcefully. That's part of it. But it is also an interest in ensuring that animals are well off and not suffering. There are many different elements to take into account in this. I feel that Staffan Danielsson and I in many parts agree. We agree that it is good and necessary for animals to have a good life and that Sweden has a strong animal welfare law. I also feel that we agree that the rules we have should be applied in a proportionate and legally secure manner; I think we share that view. There was a need to change the regulatory framework. In the new bill, the government has used a more nuanced and proportionate application of animal bans and care. These new provisions aim, among other things, to get away from the practice that has existed in the past that three injunctions can lead to an animal ban and disposal. The new is very clear in this way: we should not have it in the future, but it should be a serious situation and an animal suffers for that measure to be taken. Staffan Danielsson points out that this framework has been in force for a long time and I can only agree with Staffan Danielsson that this should have been corrected a long time ago. After all, the previous government, the Alliance government, gave a mission to the Animal Protection investigation in 2009 to review this. Concrete proposals were also made in 2011 on this particular issue. Unfortunately, nothing happened during that term of office, but that is why this government and I have addressed the issue. Our proposal for the new law includes a provision that the keeper may be allowed to phase out his animals himself in certain cases. It is also new in relation to the past. However, actual decommissioning requires that animals are not subjected to suffering. That's the primary part of this. The law also clarifies that an animal ban can be re-examined. This has not been possible before, but it is also possible now. I am pleased that Staffan Danielsson thinks that the Government's proposal in the new law is good and is moving in the right direction, and I believe that we have achieved a better balance between animal welfare interests and the interest not to restrict individuals' rights and freedoms.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Rural Affairs. I am happy to give the Minister for Rural Development credit for the fact that the government has removed this totally unreasonable rule which has been in force for decades that if we have issued three injunctions, small or large, we, the state, have the right to come by night and forcefully take care of a whole crew. That has been the case, and it has been used sometimes. It has been removed by the government – I give it to kredd – and it should have happened much earlier. We agree on a lot, but what we do not agree on is when completely revolutionary decisions are taken on the forced transfer of a herd and decisions on a ban on animals are taken after there has been a dialogue between the owner and the authority for months or years and it becomes an assessment sport and the county administrative board concludes that forced action must be taken. Then I think that the county administrative board should go to court, to the district court, so that both parties can present their opinion and the district court assess. Now it is official decisions that are made, and they are not always based on the Animal Welfare Act, but on regulations and regulations that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has issued itself. It is very rare that the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the county administrative boards assign cases to courts where violations of the Animal Welfare Act have been committed. One reason for this may be that you cannot make it home because it is your own regulations that have become law instead of the law. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has announced what I am saying, i.e. that the government should change so that the district court, the court, will decide when there will be such comprehensive decisions. I hope that the Minister for Rural Development will continue to work in the right direction on this. Sydsvenskan has an article series on cases where it is clear that the county administrative boards have acted incorrectly and animal owners have been affected. This is rarely the case, for it is rarely the case that the administrative court reviews the Authority's decision. It is sometimes even written that you do not test the authority's decision because you do not have that competence. That's why cases like this should go to the district court. That series of articles is worth reading. I have had strong reactions from many to this debate when I have discussed in social media, on Facebook, in groups and so on. Almost all of whom I have discussed with share my view of the enormous power of the County Administrative Board: Decisions are made by a very small circle, and the possibility of appeal is actually only afterwards and not before. There is a graved dog in these questions, to quote Refaat El-Sayed-Sayed. I would like to thank everyone who has given me comments on this debate, and I will put out, on my blog – googla中 Staffan Danielsson, you come to the blog – the developed views on why there is a cow on the ice or a graved dog in the salmon, as you might say. I hope that the Minister for Rural Development and the Government's expertise will take note of what will be put out on my blog and that, hopefully, the trial of forced administration of animals and animal bans will continue to take place primarily in district court with increased legal certainty for both state and animal owners as a result. My message is not only to the Minister for Rural Affairs, who has done a great deal, but to the whole Parliament and to all parties who have made legislation too strict and square on these issues.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-149	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate that there is quite a difference between previous legislation, including the practice that Staffan Danielsson points out about this three times and that animals could be taken care of and animal bans even if there were perhaps not so serious deficiencies. This is not the case now with the new legislation, but with serious matters and suffering for animals. There are major differences between the old legislative proposal and the present proposal. If the animals are not suffering, it is not serious, it does not even need to be cared for. Nevertheless, I think it is reasonable if it is serious and the animals are suffering that there is immediate care. That's what I think it should be. Then I can't make judgments on individual cases. There are certainly many different individual cases and many who have been upset about disposal and animal bans. I repeat that there is now an opportunity to request a review if an animal ban has been issued. It's also a valve for these pet owners. Nevertheless, I hope that Staffan Danielsson does not think that, if it is serious and animals are suffering, we should not be able to take immediate care of them.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-152	Madam President, I would like We agree that if animals are seriously harmed, the authority shall have the right to take immediate and unwarranted action. The new law on animal welfare provides substantial improvements on the points we have discussed, and it is incomprehensible that it has been possible to be as it has been in the past with enormous power on the part of the county administrative board and a huge disadvantage on the part of the owners of animals. Even pet owners who struggle and do not succeed very well with their animal husbandry are people, and this is an assessment sport. We agree that if the animals are given very badly, they should be taken care of. What remains are cases like this: it has been months or years of discussion and the county administrative board may have opinions on details, but it has still been good enough and not too bad, and so says the county administrative board that the animals must be enforced and the animal owner is banned. In this situation, I think, and the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment has also said so, that it is reasonable for the County Administrative Board to collect its material and go to the district court. Then the court, the criminal court, will decide whether it is reasonable for forced custody and a ban on animals or whether it can be resolved in a way that I also think we agree on, namely that the authorities should primarily support, help and lead those right who are in the border country but can get better. That's the part I want to put forward. It should be tried by a court to a greater extent when there is not a large cow on the ice, if you say so. Then we also agree that it is a step in the right direction that there is an opportunity for the animal owner himself to sell the animals if it has been decided by a court order that the animal owner cannot continue to have animals. If the government goes in, it'll cost you the shirt.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-157	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have a strong animal welfare law to also ensure good care for animals and good animal health. The law in force came about almost 30 years ago, so there was every reason to review it. The government has taken a holistic approach and made proposals for a completely new updated and modern legislation. It is important that this should come, but it should have come a long time ago, just as Mr Danielsson has mentioned in the debate. Let me mention that we have also adopted a national food strategy to increase Sweden's food production. We have set in motion some forty measures and set aside 1 billion to do so. The Animal Welfare Act is an important part of this. The fact that we have good animal health and care means that many consumers choose Swedish products in the first place, but if we do this carelessly, these consumers can turn elsewhere. So this goes together a little bit. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate and to emphasise that with the new Animal Welfare Act, the Government wants to ensure both good animal welfare and good animal welfare, but also to safeguard the integrity of the individual and the rule of law.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-161	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl has asked me what I and the government are doing to ensure freedom of expression in the country's schools, colleges and universities. Transparency and freedom of expression are the cornerstones of democracy. Sweden has provisions on freedom of expression and information in the form of government, the Freedom of the Press and the Freedom of Expression Act. The form of government also reflects the principle of legality and objectivity. They mean that public power is exercised under the laws and that courts and authorities must consider all people's equality before the law and be objective and impartial. This also applies, of course, to state universities and colleges. In a democratic knowledge society, a fundamental task for universities is to safeguard the credibility of science and to be an independent and critical reflective force in social development. A prerequisite for this is a free exchange of views where different opinions and perspectives can be met and balanced and where different people have the opportunity to express their opinions. The university's ideal must be that the weight and scientific basis of the arguments is what counts, while gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation or age must never lead to discriminatory treatment. Our universities and colleges must offer a good working environment and study environment for Sweden's researchers and students. I want to finish by reconnecting with what I said at the beginning. Universities and higher education institutions, through their task of disseminating knowledge and promoting critical thinking, have a central role in a democratic society. In times of rapid information – and disinformation – it is more important than ever to protect academic freedom and free speech. It is particularly important, then, that a regulatory framework is in place to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual. In Sweden, freedom of expression is constitutionally protected, which provides strong protection for the individual. There are also several authorities responsible for reviewing compliance with laws and other rules. I have great confidence in the order that exists and therefore do not intend to take any specific measures.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-168	Madam President, I would like Sweden has major problems with an increasingly opinion-repressive state. Today, the politically correct establishment determines what is and what is and what is wrong. Those who have all these years lied to the Swedish people right in the face and, apart from the facts about the consequences of mass immigration, are now taking increasingly far-reaching steps to create a state where factual views are pushed down, in line with the globalist doctrine of stealing the democracy and freedom of the former free peoples. The new strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden will fight against this globalism and take back power to the people. Globalism's methods of achieving its goals are to scare people into silence so that they can then rule without anyone daring to question. Anyone who today questions the EU is accused of running Putin's affairs, although it is a lie. Anyone who criticises Islam is in danger of being condemned against ethnic groups, even though Islam is not a ethnic group but a religion. Anyone who presents the facts about the consequences of mass immigration at a university is threatened with suspension. It happened at KTH is not an isolated event, but it was noticed by the online magazine Fria Tider. At KTH, therefore, a student was threatened with suspension after using his constitutional right to express himself and with statistics and facts informed about the consequences of mass immigration. In a functioning country and a functioning rule of law, the teachers involved, study counselors and headmasters had been fired. In parallel, they would have been convicted of crimes against the most sacred thing we have, namely freedom of expression. Both the current red-green government and former bourgeois governments have taken several steps to foment the undemocratic order we see emerging. By adding something similar to politics to public authorities and universities and to the rest of society, they have jointly contributed to the gradual erosion of democracy. The present government has also tried to enforce a democratic constitutional proposal, for which experts in the field have expressed their disgust. The state media, in the form of SVT and SR, trumpet out political propaganda on a daily basis, and in the educational system, unfortunately, there are many teachers who are trying to impose the right" opinion. Madam President, I would like The government should reasonably replace the vice-chancellor of KTH to one who is capable of dismissing those who have committed misconduct. I also hope that the government will initiate work to tighten the penalties for misconduct. However, I have no illusions whatsoever that the government will take any action because, with the clarity of the water, this government is a globalist government. But on the day the new and strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden gain power and influence, today's undemocratic order will be reversed.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-177	Madam President, I would like The order we have rests both on the democratic ideals and on our having a functioning rule of law. Authorities are obliged to comply with the laws and regulations established by the Riksdag and the Government. However, it is not the task of the Riksdag and the Government to interpret these laws; the authorities must do so independently. I hope this is a system that Jeff Ahl will not change. Otherwise, it is important that he tells us how he intends to change the democratic order that we have had in Sweden for a long time and which has guaranteed the independence of the authorities. We also have authorities responsible for examining universities and colleges, for example. These are the ones you should turn to if you want to have a case tried. I assume that all citizens use the order we have and do not make up their own rules on how to conduct the review. I think Jeff Ahl knows very well that Minister can't go in and run government. It's called ministerial government and it's not legal. Should we get that order, it is something completely new that awaits and where one would really see that the politicisation of the authorities would increase very much. I am confident that our authorities will comply with the constitutions, laws and regulations. As I said, there is a need for scrutiny. In our case, for example, the University Chancellor's Office can be an investigating authority. But it is not I who should tell them what to do, but there should be a report from, for example, a student. I hope we agree on this order. Otherwise, it would be important to hear about the possible new order that you want to see in the future, if you are given political influence by Jeff Ahl.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-183	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister does not answer my question. The Minister is perhaps aware that it is the government that appoints the vice-chancellors of KTH, among other things. That's what I've been talking about. I haven't talked about the audit authorities. But I understand that the Minister would rather talk about other things because she obviously does not want to answer my question. It is quite understandable that KTH and large parts of the university world have these problems because many universities today are infiltrated by various left-wing elements. I would like to emphasise that in many cases there are many good professors and many good universities, but there is a very worrying development. Gender science is a pseudoscience that is allowed to influence all subjects and courses, and it is a major problem because it is a politicized science. It was not long ago that it was revealed that the KTH Royal Institute of Technology had to write essays on why it was an advantage to be white, heterosexual and man. Unfortunately, this gender noja has spread throughout the entire sphere of government, but gender is no longer limited to gender alone, but it also seeks to include minorities that are actively claimed to be discriminated against. As I said, the opinion-repressive state is carrying out far-reaching measures throughout society to impose the right views on the people. The unified media landscape is trying to do everything you can to save. This government has, among other things, tried to force private companies to clean up their social media or search engines from what they call hate messages and fake news—that is, things that the government actually considers to be the wrong opinion, not things that are necessarily factually wrong. The desperation is complete on the part of the government. They know that people are beginning to understand that the red-green government, like previous bourgeois governments, has deceived them and that you have lied about basic facts. The only way for you now to escape political defeat is to try to suppress opinions that are uncomfortable for you and that are fact-based. On the day that the new strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden gain power and influence, many university vice-chancellors with undemocratic values will have to look for a new job. Madam President, I would like This government was lightning-fast in embarrassing itself by tying cleavage in solidarity with a middle-aged privilege in g in the politically correct woman of the establishment. When a young student at one of the universities of the country becomes oppressed à la DDR methods, the government's answer is that they have full confidence that the corrupt and politicised bureaucracy will solve this. The answer is that the vice-chancellor at KTH should be fired and that a new vice-chancellor should be appointed with respect for democracy. Alternatives for Sweden consider that this should be a necessary and reasonable measure.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-191	Madam President, I would like Nor did I receive an answer to my question about the new order that Jeff Ahl intends to introduce. This applies not least to our Heads of Government. There is a proper order for how they are to be added and also how they are to be separated. But if I've understood Jeff Ahl correctly, if you were in my role, you'd separate a head of government just from what you think and not follow the order that we have. Is it correct to understand that you want to see a whole new order for our independent authorities and for the heads of agencies appointed by the government? Are you also planning to have a whole new order for how Vice-Chancellors of universities and colleges are appointed to suit your views? The question of how to proceed with the new regime is to be answered before the elections. You do not seem to have any confidence in our supervisory authorities, who have the task of ensuring that universities and colleges comply with the rules decided by the Government and the Riksdag. How will supervision take place in your new world and with your new order that you propagate for for the upcoming elections? It would be very enlightening if you could tell the voters, so that they know what kind of new society is created with your influence in the future.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-194	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister is fully satisfied with the current regime of principals who do not assume their democratic responsibilities and who do not keep track of their staff and what it does. This is in line with the doctrine that this government is living by. They want to change the constitutions to further suppress their own views among ordinary people. Politruker is also appointed principals and managers at universities and authorities. Dan Eliasson is the clearest example. He publicly took a stand on what he thinks about different parties and their representatives. The Minister is obviously completely satisfied with this arrangement. If I had the opportunity to influence, the heads of government would have been professional and completely unpolitical and would have followed the laws and the approaches that apply. This government does not value democracy highly, absolutely not. The globalist agenda is much more important. It is much more important that people should not be allowed to criticise Europe, because then this government and the bourgeoisie cannot continue with the transfer of power that you have uncritically carried out. You are completely satisfied with the order in which, for example, Dan Eliasson is chosen, who is evicting both the one and the other about the representatives of different parties. Of course, if Fria Tider hadn't paid attention to this, the staff would not have backed up as they did now. It is grateful that we have alternative media today that pay attention to things that ordinary media do not want to pay attention to. Even there, the government wants to do everything possible to silence these new voices. It sums up the government of the present minister and former bourgeois governments in a frightening, but correct, way.
i-15119d23cfb71e90-199	Madam President, I would like I note that Jeff Ahl does not want to talk about the new order that he intends to introduce if he is prepared to influence in the Swedish parliament or in the next government. He continues to talk about his experiences of the rule of law and the democracy in which we live now. Nor do you have confidence in the order that we have with independent authorities. Government directors are appointed by the government, and there is a clear regulatory framework for what applies if they are to be separated from various missions. They would like to do this at their own discretion and in their own interpretations of life. In the run-up to this election, it is incredibly important that you as a Member of Parliament give a clear and accurate picture of the future of Sweden that you see before you with a completely different legal order and with authorities that are directly governed by individual MPs or ministers. It is an important piece of information that needs to be given to the voters before they cast their votes in the forthcoming elections. It is also important to hear how one imagines that the influence and the exercise of power will take place in the future. As I said, I have high confidence in the legal order that we have, in democracy, in constitutionally protected freedom of expression and in the compliance of the authorities with our laws. When supervision is to be done, it should be done on the basis that we have established from parliament and government.
