i-0776aabb1a80db6c-1	Madam President, I would like Security policy is one of the areas for consideration of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Today's debate deals with some 230 requests from four years of party and committee movements, as well as some individual motions. Of course we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 1 and for the alliance reservation on membership of NATO, reservation 12. The report has few decision-making points: the outside world, the security policy context, security policy cooperation, membership of NATO, the UN Security Council and weapons of mass destruction. Madam President, I would like We live in a changing world. Geopolitics are back. The challenges are many. Fundamental values of democracy and openness are being challenged. There is terrorism and fragile states, and many people are on the run. The scope for civil society is shrinking. Journalists are being threatened and killed, activists as well. Climate change is driving negative developments. Russian aggression is tangible and challenges the current European security regime. Sweden meets troll factories, propaganda, hybrid wars, cyber wars and unannounced military exercises in the neighborhood. The number of conflicts going on in the world is increasing slightly, and they are worse and more prolonged. The outside world is complicated. Sweden is still militaryly non-aligned, but we are certainly not neutral. Sweden must stand up for important values. The world has gathered around the sustainability goals. Nevertheless, the UN is carrying out certain reforms. It is positive and absolutely necessary because the multilateral system is also being challenged. We need a stronger UN, a UN that can protect peace and protect people. Sweden builds security together with others. We are involved in taking responsibility for security in Europe. We must have the capacity to provide help and support and also to receive help and support from others. EU cooperation in Pesco is interesting. Europe takes greater responsibility for its own security. Pesco will complement NATO, not double it. Europe can improve both on practical issues such as logistics and on exercises and collaborations. Here, too, the Moderates have a Swedish minimalist budget line, as usual. Defence cooperation should not entail increased costs. Funds can, if necessary, be prioritised if and perhaps taken from CAP, agricultural aid. Brexit also raises questions about how Europe's future security cooperation will develop. Madam President, I would like NATO is at the heart of security in Europe. Membership ensures peace and freedom. There is a difference between close cooperation, as now, and binding defence guarantees, which come with membership. A road map is now needed, because the question is not whether but how. We have a common understanding of this in the Alliance and a common reservation. Madam President, I would like Politics is both thing and form. Both parts are needed. A debate on security policy shall be raised. It is about our sovereignty and all that is worth defending. It therefore saddens me that some time in the committee's work has been spent trying to get the political leadership of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to hand over a 44-page report which is an evaluation of how the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has run the campaign to the UN Security Council. Perhaps part of the report is about how poor the political leadership has been when it comes to anchoring the campaign itself at the Alliance and the Riksdag. Perhaps it is a question of the ambiguities of whether and how campaign activities and travel have been financed with aid funds. It probably does not address the handling of information in what the media call parallel information systems. The easiest thing would have been to have the committee read the report and then decide on confidentiality. Instead, it has been darkening, strangeness, and trying to wiggle. The question has not yet been dealt with. Parliament's task is to review the government. It is a vital part of democracy. Then it is unworthy to take the criticism personally and then make the review more difficult. Rarely have relations between the political leadership of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Committee been so bad. It is also about respect for our different roles – on the one hand we who are elected, on the other hand the appointed government. Madam President, I would like I was asked what happens after the election. What is the difference between an alliance government and the current S-MP government? In Parliament, we often have broad political support on important issues of security policy. We are looking for consensus and consensus. It's good for Sweden. Some differences are: 中 More focus on security cooperation in the EU. It is not possible to take Europe for granted. Sweden must take a greater place in cooperation and give more priority to the neighbourhood. 中 More focus on the local area, Nordic cooperation and Nordic-Baltic cooperation. 中 Neighbors are also important to us. The EU must not lose the Eastern Partnership.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-18	Hopefully, relations between Parliament and the government can be improved. That would be good for Sweden. There are differences in political priorities, but there is also a great deal of consensus. Madam President, I would like We are all opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. The NPT is the central agreement for disarmament and non-proliferation. It got messy when Sweden suddenly signed the NBT, another agreement, which deals with nuclear bans. The signatory undertakes to disarm one-sidedly. It would have been amazing if it was enough to sign a paper to make the world's nuclear weapons disappear. But that's not the case. The NBT has not been signed by any nuclear country. It may also make cooperation in NATO more difficult if the parliament were to ratify it. The Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs represented two different lines here: Should Sweden be activist or real political? It was a little messy, and the solution was that the government internally set up an investigation to be reported after the election. Since then, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has backed up. In the report before us today, the committee was able to find good wording describing our hatred for weapons of mass destruction and for Sweden to promote disarmament and non-proliferation. In addition, the committee shares the view expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the debate article in which she made it clear that it is within the framework of the NPT that the work is taking place and that it is there that nuclear weapons countries make commitments. Let me therefore take this opportunity to thank the committee for the constructive approach that will allow us to still sign up and find a common line even when the government is divided. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the world is worried. Security policy is much more than defence. It is about building working relationships and functioning institutions. Sweden needs to cooperate with others. Politically, we have a great deal of consensus on the important issues, but there is much more to be done.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-25	Madam President, I would like If you google on the concept of security policy, you will find the following explanation: a security policy consists, among other things, of defence policy aimed at defending the country from armed attacks, foreign policy aimed at safeguarding interests vis-à-vis other states and internal security policy aimed at preventing internal threats. In general, security policy can be summarised as all measures taken by a country to safeguard/protect their vital national interests. ..................................................... These are therefore important issues on which security policy is concerned. Nevertheless, Madam President, security policy has not been very high on the agenda of either former bourgeois governments or Social Democratic governments. The political merits of these governments demonstrate this with the utmost clarity. Priority has been given to Swedish defence capabilities by successfully demolishing the Swedish Armed Forces and slaughtering entire systems. It has just as successfully crushed the entire civil defence, which is a prerequisite for the military to function. But why, Madam President, should you have a civil defence at all when you do not have a military defence? Here we have to say that somewhere there is a certain logic in the parts of sick leaves. Furthermore, our borders were opened and all border controls were abolished. It allowed not only legal goods and people to move freely into our country, but also illegal goods in the form of weapons and drugs. As far as people are concerned, we no longer have control over who is in our midst. And even if it comes to our knowledge that people who are not entitled to stay here do not take action. Instead, they can carry out acts of terror against our people. Rakhmat Akilov is a clear example of this. Ultimately, the responsibility for what happened on Drottninggatan a year ago falls on the parties in sick leaves, which have created the society we now have in good agreement. The Sick Leave parties have also successfully rocked the Swedish people into a false security that the earlier somewhat safer period from the fall of communism in Eastern Europe to a bit into the new millennium was a normal state in our part of the world. People can easily forget, because that's not the case at all. From a historical point of view, this decade is an exception. In 2008, we became aware of this when a country in our neighbourhood, Russia, showed that it was prepared to go to war with a neighbour – Georgia. Despite this, nothing happened in the political leadership in Sweden. They continued along this route and continued to slaughter the Swedish defence. I cannot help repeating what the Chairman of the Defence Committee said in 2013 and what the Minister of Defence said in 2014. There is no threat to Sweden and we do not see any intention for such a thing to develop. This was announced by the moderate chairman of the Defence Committee, Cecilia Widegren, of SVT's Policy in focus on 30 May 2013. And in the midst of burning protests at the Majdan Square in Kiev, Ukraine, and after Russia completed its largest military exercise since the fall of the Soviet Union, in January 2014 the moderate Minister of Defence Karin Enström stood at the People's and Defence National Conference in Sälen and announced: The security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region is more stable today than it was 10 years ago. She also said, "The assessment that an armed military attack on Sweden is unlikely for the foreseeable future is also the basis for the design of the defence. ..................................................... It was only when the Swedish Security Service announced in the spring of 2014 that Sweden is actually facing a threat of armed military attack that the bourgeois parties changed overnight and suddenly became defence friends. Their analytical ability is a complete joke. And now they do the analysis that the best thing for Sweden is to become a member of NATO. Yes, Madam President, I'll take care of my forehead. Here too, completely wrong security policy analyses are being carried out. It is believed that Swedish membership of NATO would ensure our security, but that is not the case at all. On the contrary, Sweden's geographical situation would put us in a very risky position. Geopolitical stability would be disrupted, as Swedish membership would in all likelihood lead to Finnish membership and thus make the Baltic Sea a NATO sea. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that this would have consequences and put our country and our population in a vulnerable position. In this context, I would like to emphasise that we are not opposed to NATO, as many sometimes claim. On the contrary, we see NATO as our friend, with whom we have good cooperation and with whom we shall continue to develop cooperation. But our way of taking responsibility for the security of the country and its people and maintaining geopolitical stability in our neighbourhood does not go through membership of the Atlantic Pact. In fact, our analysis – and our analysis has so far been more accurate than that of sick leaves in many different subject areas – is that such membership would expose us to unnecessary risks. And as a responsible party, we do not want to play hasard with the security of the country and the people. The bourgeois parties make another analysis. Given that their previous analyses put Sweden in this position of security policy, where we lack defence capabilities, I do not give much for their analytical ability. Instead, Sweden's aim should be to establish a defensive defence alliance with Finland. It would maintain geopolitical stability and would also be acceptable to all parties, because neither NATO nor Russia wants there to be a military vacuum in our part of the world. Swedish security policy must aim to secure our country and our people. We do this by equipping our defence capabilities, both military and civil, and by protecting our borders and gaining control of who is staying in our country. Through a restored defence force, a civil defence authority responsible for the functioning of civil defence through clear coordination responsibilities, re-established border protection with the necessary resources for both customs and border police and a police authority capable of managing control over who is in our country and expelling those who are not entitled to stay here, we restore the security to which our people are entitled. There is only one party in Parliament that has credibility in security policy, and that party is the Swedish Democrats. The other parts of the leaves have repeatedly shown serious deficiencies or a complete lack of analysis on this important subject. These parties now want to seek new trust from the Swedish people in September. For me, Madam President, it is a complete mystery that Swedish voters continue to vote for the parties playing hasard with their own security. However, as I said earlier in my speech, Madam President, people are easily forgotten. Mr V i verigedememocrats, of course, support all our reservations and our specific opinion in the report. But for time winning, we only ask for reservations 2, 8 and 13.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-40	Madam President, I would like It's a very special day. We are discussing security policy in the Swedish Parliament, and we are discussing motions that have been raised in the Chamber throughout the parliamentary term. At the same time, the world is following developments following the attack on chemical weapons in Syria. It has also been seen that chemical weapons, one of the weapons of mass destruction that we have and which threaten international peace and security, have actually been used for the first time since the Second World War on the European continent, in Salisbury, England. Against this background, one might be surprised that we do not draw attention to these issues in the report, but it is because we are dealing with motions and that there is still no time to raise motions for this. We are dealing in particular with nuclear issues in the report. It is about the risk of spreading them, about the need for control regimes that work and about upholding the agreements that exist. This is something that actually applies to chemical weapons and biological weapons. It is a question of asserting the control regimes that we have, of upholding the agreements that exist and also of thinking about how we deal with them when they breach the agreements that have been concluded. It's almost five years since we saw the Kem weapons attack in Ghouta. OPCW got a role to follow up and verify. At that time, we also managed to ensure with international pressure that Syria would dismantle its chemical weapons and accede to the Chemical Weapons Convention. It's almost five years ago. And there have soon been five years of new attacks on the Syrian population with chemical weapons – with the protection of our great neighbour to the east, Russia, who has actually also acted in other ways in Syria. However, this report is not the case either. However, it shows the reality we have to deal with when we discuss security and the security policy situation in our world today. It is about the fact that the Security Council is de facto blocked from acting and making a difference in the event of a breach of agreements and international law and has been so during this time. We know that this chemical attack has taken place at the same time as we have been pleased to have negotiated a unanimous resolution on the ceasefire. Isn't that telling you what reality actually looks like? It is tragic and deeply serious. We must, of course, at the time when we are working to increase safety. It's about building alliances. We must stand up and uphold global regulations, be it human rights, democracy and trade. But we must also stand together for climate action, for terrorism and for violations of international law when challenged globally and regionally. The discussion on weapons of mass destruction often focuses on nuclear weapons, as I mentioned earlier, although the kerbs today have particular attention. From the Center Party we are clear: we want to claim a nuclear-free world. That is where we should strive, and we want to go through the agreements that we have been able to agree on. We want to strengthen these agreements and non-proliferation agreements as well as we want to strengthen the institutions that we have created to regulate and follow up, such as the IAEA. We want to work towards risk reduction and to reduce the talk about using nuclear weapons – it may be about North Korea, Russia or others. Madam President, I would like The ban convention sounds good, just as the chemical ban sounds good. But if it is not complied with and if the nuclear states are not there, the reality is different. On our part, we have been prepared to discuss and to examine and enter into a discussion on nuclear bans. But it was not to create a placard to hold up for domestic political applause, but to achieve a result globally, and then the nuclear states must be involved. At a time when they are not in favour of a ban and are not even in the negotiations, it is quite clear that we do not choose that solution. It's a wrong path. It is placard policy that does not advance but can instead increase risks and security problems globally. From our side, it is clear that it would have been wise for a government that puts security in its seat to first consider the consequences and then decide whether or not to vote in favour. Now the government chose to vote yes first and then consider the consequences. That's where we are now. From our side, we are not prepared to make decisions that risk and threaten Swedish security, our collaborations and Sweden. Against this background, it is also clear that we are not in favour of the prohibition convention that has come forward. It doesn't work the way we need it. The Security Council has obvious problems. In a reservation, we highlight the issue of creating better conditions for the work of the Security Council by minimising the use of vetoes. Criteria for humanitarian intervention can be a way of moving forward and agreeing rather than resorting to veto. It's hard to move forward. It is quite obvious, and it shows the reality. We think, of course, that it is reasonable for Sweden during our time in the Security Council to raise and seize the opportunity to discuss these kinds of issues. Moreover, I can only agree with what Sofia Arkelsten mentioned in her speech on the Security Council campaign and the absolutely devastating handling of the internal Ministry for Foreign Affairs inquiry, one that we have seen on the part of the committee. Regionally, we have a challenging situation. It is a question of strengthening the EU's cooperation in security policy. It's about Pesco, it's about working on Cyber, it's about clearly interacting with the British also post-brexit and it's about the US and the transatlantic link. Madam President, I would like Sweden has gone from a policy of neutrality to a policy of solidarity. Now it is just a matter of not just saying it, but also guaranteeing it, and if we are to do so, it is a matter of NATO membership. We are clear on our part that we need to create transparency, consistency and clarity about Swedish action. We won't hesitate. We should not create uncertainty about where we stand in the conflict situation in our region, and this conflict situation is not about Sweden and Norway, not about Sweden and Germany, nor about Sweden and Poland. It is Russia that is threatening our neighbours and also us, and if we are a no man's country in the security policy context, we are exposed to threats that can be felt. Against this background, it is important that we straighten out the question marks and create clarity. We shall not end up in a situation in which Georgia and Ukraine ended up: standing alone in a threatening environment. They've seen Russian presence. They see it today. We're not gonna end up in that situation. I support reservations 3 and 12. Otherwise, of course, I support all the specific opinions and reservations.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-56	Madam President, I would like According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Sipri's 2017 report, the world spent $1,686 billion on military spending and weapons in 2016 – $1,686 billion! That is a staggering amount of money, given that the United Nations has reported that they would need USD 4.4 billion to tackle the famine in South Sudan, North-East Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen. In order for all children to be able to attend school in 2030 – today over 260 million children cannot do so – the world needs to spend another 39 billion dollars on education in areas where children do not have access to school. If the world's leaders had chosen to focus solely on the two examples I took now, they would still have been able to continue to benefit the military and the arms industry by $1642 billion. The cost of the entire United Nations activities is estimated by the Global Policy Forum annually at about $30 billion. It is change that rattles at the bottom of the purse compared to what the world's leaders choose to put on military and armaments. Leaders and military supporters would like to claim that they are choosing these expenditures for peace. But we who really want to see peace, see that all children around the world should be able to develop into just what they want to be, see an earth that is healthy both for ourselves and for future generations, we know that what benefits peace is equal distribution of financial resources, equality, freedom of expression, democracy, education for all, viable civil organisations and inter-people contacts. It is freedom to be the one one wants to be, with whom one wants to be, and it is investment in green energy. Instead, $1,686 billion over a year is spent on military spending and weapons. International security should be based on cooperation and a strong global regulatory framework under the leadership of the UN. Today, the world does not suffer from a shortage of military forces and units, but there is a huge shortage of humanitarian efforts. The security situation in Europe has deteriorated. We see with concern how the Russian leadership has shown itself prepared to use military means to achieve political goals. There are no excuses for Russia's action on Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. Russia is a security policy threat, first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the rule of the Kremlin. Russia's imperialist policy poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries – Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia – not primarily to Sweden. The Left Party is behind the EU sanctions against Russia following the unacceptable annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the Russian military support to separatists in eastern Ukraine. There is also a need to complement the sanctions with increased exchanges and cooperation between the peoples of Sweden and Russia, such as civil society in our countries and by giving more Russians the opportunity to study in Sweden. Therefore, the government should instruct the relevant authorities to increase support for popular cooperation with Russia. Madam President, I would like A new security situation also changes the conditions for the safety of women and girls. The traditional methods of warfare do not necessarily have to set the framework for future warfare. It requires a security policy that follows developments and is prepared to reconsider old truths. Sweden's defence and security policy shall be based on political decisions taken on the basis of democratic and international law principles based on a sound and well-founded international analysis. Research on security policy and peace-promoting measures is an important part of international work. This work should be based on a broad security policy approach based on a gender perspective including the safety of women and girls. The effects of climate change are already having a major impact on people around the world. Despite significant progress in line with the Millennium Goals, people are still starving to death, and many are dying of simple diseases and pregnancy and childbirth in large parts of the world. Peace and security must be built together with others. It is through de-stress and disarmament that we can build long-term stability. Through global cooperation, we can combat poverty, combat climate change, protect international law and build security and peace together. Sweden has an important role to play in developing and strengthening the UN. We want to see a Swedish UN strategy focusing on a reformed UN, gender equality, peaceful conflict management and respect for international law and human rights. Sweden should push for the UN to develop its work for early warning and response to armed conflicts, and we want Sweden to give higher priority to work in the OSSE. Increased Nordic cooperation is both important and requested. The Left Party sees opportunities to change cooperation with our Nordic neighbours in a number of areas of defence policy, as long as it does not threaten military alliance freedom. Even issues that lack a defence policy character can help build a closer relationship with other countries, including Russia, not least within the Baltic Sea region. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party defend Sweden's military freedom of alliance. It is a security policy strategy that has helped generations to grow up in peace. However, the military freedom of alliance is called into question by several parliamentary parties who want to see another Swedish approach to NATO – yes, even a membership. At a time when the tone is being screwed up between NATO and Russia, is it, then, a security-political balance to jump on the armaments coruls and seek further cooperation with NATO? When the NATO country of Turkey uses its military muscle to bomb the Kurdish population in Afrin, is it a tasteful assessment to seek membership of the same club as Erdo The Left Party opposes the so-called host country agreement with NATO because the agreement reduces the credibility of our military alliance freedom without providing guarantees of increased military security for Sweden. On the contrary, the Left Party believes that NATO forces on Swedish territory are increasing the tension in our neighbourhood. With the increased proximity to NATO, Sweden risks being drawn into devastating wars and conflicts, and with its participation in an ever-increasing rhetoric, training and armament spiral, we are both raising tension and risk causing losses in human lives by pure mistakes. The Left Party, for the same reason, rejects the Partnership for Peace, a Swedish Embassy at NATO headquarters, participation in NATO Stratcom in Riga and in NATO's cybercenter in Tallinn. Madam President, I would like I therefore support Amendment No 14. A fundamental principle of international peace and security is that decisions on military violence as a last resort for the protection of peace and human rights should be made on behalf of the UN or other international law. It is important to rely not only on UN mandates when adopting positions on international action. An assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis. Where necessary, international law and the UN Charter must be enforceable against the Security Council in order to strengthen the position of the UN. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a history of active work for disarmament in general and nuclear disarmament in particular. Through Sweden's history of military alliance freedom, there is a unique voice that should be used even more clearly for a global nuclear disarmament. NATO membership divides the Nordic countries on the nuclear issue. The last summer concluded the UN negotiations to ban nuclear weapons provide an illustrative example of how NATO membership, for example, would affect Sweden's ability to work for peace and disarmament. Nuclear weapons are the only weapons of mass destruction not yet banned under international law. However, on 7 July 2017, an important step was taken when the UN decided on such a ban. Sweden should, of course, belong to the countries that are in the front line to sign this agreement. We can do that in an independent and military non-aligned state. The government should immediately sign the UN Nuclear Ban Treaty. In 2016, world leaders spent $1,686 billion on military spending and weapons. It is time to break that trend and instead invest in us humans and our earth.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-77	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 and reservation 12. We are experiencing greater uncertainty than in a very long time, not least in Syria. It feels like it's not so easy to take things in anymore, that is, we've been numbed to this enormous suffering and trauma we see, most recently in Ghouta and Afrin and so on. It's such a broad disintegration and such a large-scale killing in the world right now that it's hard to see how the world can get out of this spiral. Some time ago, I had the privilege of listening to one of our foremost diplomats, Jan Eliasson, when he described how diplomacy is becoming increasingly difficult to operate today because conflicts are becoming more and more complicated with more and more actors, proxy militias and so on. It is no longer the case that a war today involves a state that attacks another state, and then you put two leaders in the same room and try to agree on a peace agreement. It is now much more complicated. This places high demands on the EU, the UN and Sweden and many other countries on how we act in the more uncertain situation. One conclusion is that Europe must take greater responsibility for its own security. On the Liberal side, we want to see enhanced European defence cooperation, and we also believe that Sweden should become a member of NATO. NATO is central to security in Europe, not least in our neighbourhood. Membership would create the conditions for trusting cooperation with the other Nordic and Baltic countries. The international situation and the situation in our region in northern Europe and north-eastern Europe clearly underline this. I recently visited Estonia and Latvia. The signal from the Baltic countries is clear, that is to say, they want Sweden to become a member of NATO in the future. It is also important for their safety, and it would have a positive impact on them. The bilateral cooperation with individual NATO countries advocated by the government will not replace the binding defence guarantees that come with full membership. As a member, Sweden would have a common defence planning with NATO, which would enable rapid joint action in the event of a crisis. Madam President, I would like We also see several other security threats: terrorism, cyber threats, decaying states that I mentioned, organised crime and so on. If we want to promote improved security, it is necessary to see the whole. One aspect that is often forgotten when talking about security is the need for humanitarian emergency aid in conflict areas and neighbouring countries to conflict. The chronic under-funded humanitarian aid agencies in the UN contribute to destabilisation, large flows of refugees, recruitment in camps to militant groups and so on. Another aspect is combating corruption and organised crime. We also need to strengthen our IT security, both in the short term and in the longer term. I would like to take this opportunity to mention one more aspect. From our liberal point of view, we see an alarming development in the world of populism and extremism. Central democratic institutions such as free media, free cultural life and the judiciary are being undermined in many countries today. It's a dangerous development. Democracy requires division of power. Democracy also presupposes that we cherish values such as tolerance, humanism and enlightenment. If you wear down these central pillars of a free, democratic, open and liberal society, there is not much left of democracy in the end. Global and regional security is linked to our own actions – that we as individuals protect our democracy and contribute to constructive social development. I am very concerned about the development in which populists and gapnecks set the tone for the public conversation and where facts and science are pushed back in favour of fake news, aggressive bullies online and so on. This is also linked to a broader context of security both here and elsewhere, and I think it is important that we have this holistic approach when we look at security issues.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-91	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a report which has dealt with a number of requests for motion on the subject of security policy. It concerns many different aspects of security policy, and the motions that have been dealt with have been received throughout this term of office. This does not mean that the debate on Swedish security policy has not been held in this House – far from it. The foreign policy debates during this parliamentary term have, of course, reflected world developments, and it has been anything but certain. Wars and conflicts in the Middle East, Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea, instability in our own neighbourhood, China's ambition to buy up strategically important infrastructure and nuclear threats mean that security policy is present on all issues related to Sweden's international cooperation, for security we can only build in collaboration with others. We are part of the international community and depend on working relations and relations with our world around us. The ambitions of states' power, climate, environment, demography, international crime, energy dependence, nuclear proliferation, terrorism, a lack of democracy and a lack of respect for human rights and freedoms are all global phenomena that affect our security. Therefore, we must be prepared to contribute to a safer and freer world, as we can. It is important that Sweden continues to contribute to established and new efforts in peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention cooperation within NATO, the EU, the UN and the OSSE, the organisation for security and cooperation in Europe. We will be an active player in the various international collaboration bodies where we operate. We must help to ensure that these cooperations work as efficiently and result-orientedly as possible. Madam President, I would like Let me start with security policy cooperation within the European Union, because the EU is and should continue to be the central forum for Swedish foreign and security policy. The success of the EU requires clearer visions, enhanced cooperation and greater efficiency in the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. The EU's ability to act as a security policy actor depends on the resources, cohesion and will of the Member States. At present, there are also very clear visions and strong will, at least from some Member States. Some of the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Paris last week. There is a President who has both vision and will and who wants to move quickly and resolutely to achieve a strong defence with a common intervention force. Of course, the discussions on how to shape European cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy are not new. I am a Christian Democrat and I am happy to quote Konrad Adenauer over and over again in this House. Five decades ago, Mr Adenauer said that political union should result in the development of a coordinated foreign and security policy for free Europe and that the American Euro-Atlantic Alliance partner should be relieved by Europe's increased formation. The fact that Macron now sees the nuclear power of France as an important player that can relieve the United States of America of Europe's security is becoming increasingly evident. In the autumn, we in this House have debated future EU cooperation in security policy in more general terms based on the Commission's forward scenarios for enhanced cooperation. We have also debated and voted in favour of Sweden's participation in Pesco, the permanent structured cooperation within the Union. The fact that Sweden wants to help shape the cooperation is important. But we must also show more concrete visions and will. We are of the opinion that more needs to be done to ensure that the EU does not duplicate what NATO is already doing. Nor do we want to see a Europe turning away from our British friends. British participation in European security will continue to be central in the future. This is an insight that should come to light, possibly to both Brussels and Paris. This will be a natural transition to the subject of Swedish NATO cooperation. In the report, the alliance parties have a joint reservation, reservation 12, for Sweden to apply for membership. I would now like to endorse it. Sver ige is surrounded by NATO countries, Finland exception. The possible threats that may arise to these means that it is difficult to see any situations where Sweden and Swedish territory would not be affected by a serious crisis or conflict in our neighbourhood. In the declaration of solidarity in the 2009 Defence Decision, we have committed ourselves to supporting our Nordic neighbours and other EU members – even militarily if necessary. We have said that if we were to be attacked, we would expect their support. The only organisation that has the military capabilities and command capabilities to act in our neighbourhood is NATO. The measures that Sweden has taken to facilitate any assistance from NATO in the event of an attack on Sweden, such as the host nation support agreement and that we participate in collaborations such as Joint Expeditionary Force and also in exercise activities with NATO, are of great value. However, these cooperations do not replace membership, as they do not guarantee help. Without influence in NATO's planning and decision-making processes, there is a danger that both Swedish and NATO efforts will not be optimal or simply implemented too late. Madam President, I would like I have not touched on Nordic cooperation much other than from the NATO perspective. Of course, it is of great importance that we continue to work together on our major security policy challenges. We believe, however, that it is unrealistic to hope for a Nordic military security concept that fully replaces other collaborations. The cornerstone of Norway's and Denmark's security policy is membership of NATO and will remain so. I have not spoken about the UN Security Council. There are many things that we would like to change in terms of our joint peace efforts and the reform that is necessary if we are to have a UN Security Council that is actually capable of delivering security. However, for time to come, I am saving this for debates in other reports. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the KD, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 12.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-106	Madam President, I would like There is a broad consensus in Sweden and in Swedish policy on security policy. I would like to start by expressing my appreciation for what I heard Sofia Arkelsten begin her speech with. She pointed out that there was a great deal of consensus on Swedish security policy. This is a report dealing, among other things, with the risks of military attack, the security situation in the world and weapons of mass destruction. If you want to easily summarise the situation for Sweden is a military attack unlikely, but it cannot be excluded. We must, of course, plan for this and be prepared for the worst, which hopefully we will never have to experience. This report also deals with weapons of mass destruction. On the other hand, it is not really a question of terrorism in our country, although this has also been the subject of the debate. I think it is important to point out that Swedish society is, and should be, an open society. This also makes us vulnerable in some respects. It is not reasonable or possible to protect us completely against any terrorist act. However, it cannot be said that it is a failure by seven parties to protect the country and our citizens that makes individual people choose to commit acts of terrorism. It does not matter whether it is a domestic, native-born terrorist or an asylum seeker who has been rejected. The killing and terror are the same and should be punished. We shall, of course, do much to ensure that our society is prepared and to avoid such actions taking place. But it would be dishonest to say that it would be possible to 100 percent avert any risk of insanity. Sweden cooperates closely with NATO. I think it is good that we have it, but I do not think that Sweden should become a member of NATO. On the contrary, we should take care of the close relationship that Sweden and Finland have with NATO – a closer relationship than any other partner country has with NATO. This serves our security and that of Europe well, I believe. By having this cooperation and a series of other bilateral cooperations, we have options so that we can act on the basis of the conditions in the long term. Weapons of mass destruction is another subject raised in this report. It is one of the greatest threats in and against the world. There is a broad consensus here in the Swedish Parliament on the need and importance of disarmament. We see in some sections a little different ways there. I think that a ban on nuclear weapons is a way that is worth trying, and that is why the Swedish Government has chosen to sign and support the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which was adopted last summer. However, at the same time as we did, the Swedish Government also announced in its explanation of vote that there were a number of things regarding the form of the ban that had to be clarified and clarified. This is what is now happening in an investigation work for which the government has appointed an investigator. In October this year, the investigation will be completed, and eventually the issue will come, one has to adopt, here to the Riksdag, which will decide whether Sweden will accede to the Convention on Prohibition or not. Madam President, I would like Our work at the UN is always important, but it is of course particularly important now that we are one of the temporary countries of the UN Security Council. This also gives us the opportunity, particularly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to follow closely the work of the UN and the Security Council right now. We do so, for example, through monthly presentations to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with representatives from the Government, which describes both the work that has taken place in the past month and the work that is before the Security Council in the coming month. We welcome the peaceful handover of power that has been made possible by the Security Council and Sweden's work. But we are also frustrated by the inability to resolve serious conflicts that are going on almost live in our world. We are frustrated by the repeated use of the veto of the permanent members of the Security Council, a veto used and abused in order to avoid the Security Council being able to act in conflicts where it is itself involved in practice. Madam President, I would like Finally, there is a serious and complex security policy situation in our world and our neighbourhood. Then it is good with the broad, broad consensus – albeit not total consensus – that is here in the Swedish parliament on Swedish security policy. It serves Swedish security well. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-116	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I argued that responsibility for what happened on Drottninggatan a year ago ultimately falls on the parties in sick leaves, which have created the society we now have in good agreement. In his speech Mr Kenneth Forslund gives up more or less the responsibility and claims that you cannot blame anyone, but it can happen at any time. The fact is, however, that Rakhmat Akilov, as I mentioned as an example, was in our country despite the rejection of the asylum application. Another example that I did not mention is the murderer at Ikea in Västerås, I would like to remember that it was, that had also been rejected. It was not counted as an act of terror, but it was also a case of killing someone in our population. Rakhmat Akilov committed an act of terror. If our policy had been in place, I mean, that person would have been taken into custody, just like the Ikea Killer. He had been in custody waiting for expulsion to be carried out. In addition, we had made sure that the police were given the necessary resources to carry out deportations to a greater extent. Kenneth G. Forslund's former Minister Anders Ygeman spoke of 80 000 people who had been rejected leaving the country. What happened to the 80,000? One cannot stand here and renounce political responsibility for what is happening in the streets and squares if one also belongs to a government party. The Social Democrats and other parties in sick leaves have the ultimate political responsibility for what is happening in here. Border controls have been abolished and no longer have any control over which people are staying here. When they are rejected, they are still allowed to reside freely in our society and among our people, thereby posing potential threats.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-120	Madam President, I would like Of course, the ultimate responsibility for any act of violence always lies with the violator. Society should do what it can to prevent the possibility of terrorist acts and acts of violence. Society shall, as far as is reasonable in an open and free society, take the measures that can be taken in advance to identify, track down and follow the persons who may be at risk. This is something that our security police, for example, are constantly working on. But on Björn Söder's description, it sounds like if we immediately threw out all asylum seekers who had been rejected, the risk of terrorist acts would disappear at the same time. That is not the case; it cannot be excluded. You can't make it that easy. That is my point, Madam President.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-122	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G Forslund says that society should do what it can to prevent such things from happening, and of course that is the case. But has it been done? No, you obviously do not have that when people who have expulsion decisions and are not supposed to stay here continue to do so because they do not execute expulsions. Ultimately, responsibility rests with the political leadership of this country. Of course, everyone has a responsibility for what he or she does. But ultimately those who lead this country are Kenneth G. Forslund's party colleagues in the government. Then political responsibility rests with those who govern this country. It is clear that we will not be able to remove all the risks of terrorist acts simply because we are deporting those who do not have here. I didn't say that either. But you should definitely not allow people who do not have here to stay freely in this country, but you should ensure that they are displaced from our country. You're supposed to be in control of who's in our country. The political leadership in this country has a responsibility to protect and safeguard its population and the country as a whole. I do not think that the political leadership is taking this responsibility, because it would have ensured that the police were given the necessary resources to be able to carry out better controls. You don't even live up to the controls that you set as your goal. On the contrary, internal controls have declined over the last year. Morgan Johansson went out today and said that the border controls that have been introduced will last. There's a reason you do it. This is done because there is a risk of terrorists moving into Sweden. That's what Morgan Johansson also says. But why has this not been done much earlier? It's waking up five past twelve. We have warned against this for years. As I said in my speech, the analysis of the parties in sick leaves has not been very good. Perhaps we should have listened to those whose analyses have actually proved to be in line with reality.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-128	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that Björn Söder admits that it is not possible to completely remove the risks. Then we are still in a reasonable discussion on this. We can discuss how large, how extensive and how many measures we will take to avoid the risks. That is the factual discussion on this. There is no doubt that this government and previous governments have done a wide range of things in recent years to increase security in different ways in our country. You can discuss whether that's enough. I think that discussion is very reasonable and highly factual. If you are also prepared, as Björn Söder now says he is, to admit that it is not possible to completely remove the risks, there is a good and objective basis for taking a factual debate on how we can further increase the security of our society, while respecting the fact that we have a society that has great transparency and therefore a vulnerability. I do not think that any of us want to completely restrict the openness and freedom that we have in Sweden, which would ultimately mean if we were to build some kind of absolute security.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-131	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions and a comment. I note that Sweden has still not signed the NPT. We have voted in favour, and now we are looking at what we voted for and what consequences it will have for us. I would like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund about the solidarity policy on security, which is actually also the basis of our security policy. What options does Kenneth G. Forslund want to see in the joint security policy? What signal does Kenneth G. Forslund send to our neighbours? Is it important for us to maintain and enforce NATO's security guarantees?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-133	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for these questions. When it comes to solidarity policy, I think that the signal from Sweden to our surrounding world should be that in the event of a crisis or conflict, Sweden is prepared to help countries in our care and that we expect them to help us accordingly. It is important that we work together on security policy in our neighbourhood. But I believe that the confidence that the four bourgeois parties have in how quickly NATO will be able to unite and act, unfortunately, is exaggerated. I think that our safety in Sweden is best served by having a number of different options. Nor is this an election for a term of office or two that we are talking about with regard to NATO membership. This is something we are going to have for a very long time. That must be the starting point. An overview of NATO for a very long time is the right answer to any future security policy challenge. Unfortunately, however, it is now a little bit in the way that NATO membership in the bourgeois debate is presented as the answer to virtually every question and challenge of security policy.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-135	Madam President, I would like NATO membership, of course, is not a response to every security policy challenge. However, it is a question of security guarantees if something happens here. Madam President, I would like Why does Kenneth G. Forslund have greater confidence in a bilateral agreement that is not co-opted with a NATO country and that Poland would come, that Denmark would come or, for that matter, that the US would come and that it would produce a faster result than trusting that NATO membership could help not only Sweden but indeed our neighbours too? That is what this is all about. In certain situations, but not all of us – we are not talking about terrorism, we are not talking about climate issues and we are not talking about all the threats that we may face, but we are talking about threats that we may be exposed to in our region if Russia chooses to act militarily in our region – NATO membership is a standstill threshold that provides clarity and security, not only for us but also for our neighbours. It is a policy of solidarity and not a policy of neutrality.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-137	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren is into something that is very important, no matter which path you choose, and that is to practice together with other countries. It is something that we do and that we absolutely should continue to do. I think that the exercises are what really make it possible to get help relatively quickly in the event that it is needed and, for that matter, to provide help in the event that it is needed. With regard to NATO as a security policy threshold, one might wonder, above all, whether it is a sufficiently high threshold. This has obviously not been assessed in recent years in the Baltic States, where it has been important to get large NATO countries to also base troops in each country in order to increase the threshold. The question is: is NATO membership a sufficiently high threshold, or must it be even higher if you are a member of NATO? Obviously, in the Baltic countries the assessment has been made – in fact, I think it is a reasonable assessment in their case – that the threshold unfortunately needed to be raised. I am sorry that this is the case, but I think it is a good thing that this has been done. For the Swedish part, however, I believe that the basis of our security and our defence should be a strong defence of our own, in which we work closely with NATO and with various countries in our surrounding world, which means that we have a number of choices for the event that the worst would happen.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-141	Madam President, I would like It went so well with the consensus between Kenneth G Forslund and among others myself. I share it, and I also appreciate that Kenneth G. Forslund was so clear about this. It was statesmanly from all sides. But then Kenneth G. Forslund chose to express himself as unlikely that an armed attack cannot be ruled out. I am aware that this line has an insanely high nerd factor, or we can call it a specialist factor. But the very word unlikely is something that the Defense Committee has removed from its analysis precisely to show the tightened security situation. It chose to remove the probability assessment itself and rather landed in the fact that an armed attack cannot be ruled out. Since we work with politics and words means something, my question is whether Kenneth G Forslund shares the Swedish Defence Committee's analysis.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-144	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Sofia Arkelsten. I absolutely share the defense committee's analysis. I am one of the members of the Defence Committee, and I am one of the broad majority there who, in terms of planning conditions, have pointed out that a military attack cannot be ruled out. The Swedish Defence Committee's work is now continuing, and it will continue until April 2019. We are currently working on presenting the proposals for supporting documents that the Swedish Defence Committee will produce for the next long-term Swedish defence decision, for the years 2021 – 2025. In the defence decision we have today, which is what applies, the wording is that an attack is very unlikely. The interim report presented by the Defence Committee at the end of December concerns the activation of planning and preparedness for total defence and civil defence. Then one must ask: If something is unlikely, why plan and prepare for it? It won't hold. It is therefore reasonable that, as a prerequisite for planning, it should be formulated as a war that cannot be ruled out. This does not mean that we think it is close at hand, but it is the worst we can get into and we should be prepared for the worst. Then we will probably have a pretty good chance of coping with everything else under there, so to speak.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-147	Madam President, I would like I am very well aware of what the defence decision looks like and how the word was used– for example, I participated in the former defence preparation. However, it is important to ensure that the Social Democracy is not procrastinating on these issues. We have seen how the Minister for Foreign Affairs chose to describe the Defence Committee as a group, which was actually like that, and send spokespersons to all embassies that did not really reflect the change that the new defence committee had brought about. It was simply not right with reality, but I choose to interpret this in the most benevolent way possible and to see it as the participation of the Social Democrats and that the word is unlikely to be used.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-149	Madam President, I would like I thank Sofia Arkelsten for the benevolent interpretation; it is not only benevolent but also correct. However, with regard to the speeches the Ministry for Foreign Affairs sent out to Swedish embassies, I would like to point out the following: if you read the whole paper with points of speech – it is really wrong to call it points of speech, because it was a long piece of text – you can see that, I think, it reflects the proposals put forward by the Defence Committee.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Our security is under threat. Earth erosion and desertification are on the increase, the oceans are getting warmer and more acidic – with incalculable consequences for coral reefs and fish stocks – and tropical rain forests, the planet's lungs, continue to be devastated. All this predatory urge on nature also inevitably leads to the extinction of species and the loss of biodiversity in a way that causes the ecosystems, which sustain all life on our planet, to fail. Humanity saws so that it glows in the branch on which we all sit. Unsustainable consumption and production patterns are driving global warming, which often further exacerbates existing environmental problems. And in a world in which natural capital is shrinking, the conflicts about water resources and land still growing are increasing. A recent IPbes research report, a global knowledge platform for biodiversity and ecosystem services, notes that in regions affected by severe drought, violent conflicts increase by up to 45%. In one of their reservations to the report, the Moderates state that a large proportion of the world's conflicts already stem from environmental factors. The link between climate change and conflicts is strong. I could not have expressed it better myself and was sincerely pleased with these clear-eyed formulations from the main opposition party, for if we are to meet the enormous challenges we face, of course, an unprecedented pool of forces across party boundaries is required. Even in the latest defence preparations, there is a growing consensus that security policy today has considerably more dimensions than the military, where in addition to environmental challenges such as cyber attacks and terrorism are highlighted. Unfortunately, however, in spite of this insight, the debate on security policy both in Sweden and abroad tends to fall back into old ruts, and the new security threats are rarely prepared for the place in the exchange of ideas that they deserve. Madam President, I would like This is not to say that classical geopolitics and military threats can be ignored. For a small country like Sweden, the maintenance of international law and the UN Charter's ban on violence are absolutely crucial, and it is gratifying that, in contrast to the parliaments of many other EU countries, we in the Swedish Parliament have been able to demonstrate a total consensus in condemning Russia's unlawful annexation of Crimea and its military aggression in eastern Ukraine. The Russian language is rich and beautiful, but an expression that is definitely not beautiful but brutal and frightening is b lizjneje zarubezje, the close foreign – i.e. the former Soviet republics, which are supposedly considered only conditionally released. This is, of course, not something that is said directly in official contexts, but in Kremlin think tanks and among ideologists in the vicinity of the regime, rather unflowered things are aired such as, for example, the independence of the Baltic States is a result of Russia's temporary weakness and not really a natural state. That's hardly how you build good neighbourly relationships. The Russian support for the rare repressive and blood-defiled Asad regime in Syria must also be strongly condemned. For a few years around the dissolution of the Soviet Union there was an ambition to settle with the past. Archives were opened, and memorials of the millions of victims of the Gulags were established. A joint Russian-Polish commission concluded that the mass executions of Polish officers in Katyn in 1940 took place on Stalin's direct orders. To take another example of the fact that there was some sort of will to settle with history: the Commander-in-Chief of the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 went after the fall of the Berlin Wall to Prague and apologized to Dub č ek, who was just elected President of Parliament at the time. However, this processing of the past was interrupted when Putin became President. On the contrary, he has described the dissolution of the Soviet Union as the greatest disaster of the 20th century. If Russia wants to have normal international relations one day, it must reasonably take place with a serious aim of processing the past, and hopefully a window opens for this when the post-Putin era begins and the first leadership generation not characterized by the Soviet system takes over. In anticipation of this, it is important that Russia is not completely isolated and that we remember that not only does one person live there, but that, in addition to the self-ruler of the Kremlin, there are more than 140 million more inhabitants in this eleven time zones large country. Cooperation on customs, maritime rescue, nuclear safety, environmental cooperation in the Arctic, etc. – bilaterally as well as within the framework of the Council of Baltic Sea States, the Barents Council and the Arctic Council – is already working reasonably well today and could be further extended. People-to-people contacts could also be expanded, which is important in terms of alleviating tensions and counteracting the cultivation of enemy images. I am thinking here of everything from town twinning or municipal partnerships to student exchanges and exchanges of experience between professional groups. Diversification of Russian business, away from today's almost total dependence on a few mega-groups in the extractive sector, could probably contribute to the emergence of a more pluralistic and democratic society. This is why trade should be facilitated between small and medium-sized enterprises in north-west Russia and so on in the Nordic countries. Madam President, I would like Since the morning of history, rulers have tried to strengthen their position by pointing to an external threat. Putin has long played this card, and it hardly requires any deeper social psychological insights to realize how Finnish and Swedish NATO membership would be exploited by the Russian regime. From being surrounded by two non-aligned countries up on its north-west flank, Russia would suddenly have a – as is likely to be seen – 300 km long glowing NATO border. Everything suggests that this would significantly strengthen the most backward parts of the Russian power elite, concentrated in the military and security bodies, which would then of course require increased resources and even greater influence. This, in turn, would justify increased funding for the defence of NATO countries and lead to new steps in the armament ladder – that is, the classic security dilemma, where increased defence appropriations do not lead to increased security but to a reduction. Madam President, I would like There is, of course, a wide range of other reasons for not joining NATO. Already at the start, something went very wrong. Among the countries that founded the Atlantic Alliance on 4 April 1949 are not only democracies but also one of the worst dictatorships in Europe of the time, namely Portugal, which was then for a quarter of a century a fierce fascist dictatorship. There it goes, the winging between the commemorative speeches' tribute to democracy at NATO summits and the real political support for friendly military juntas. The junta of the Colonel, who deposed Greece's democratically elected government in 1967 and established a comprehensive prison camp system in the Greek island world, where democratically elected politicians were tortured, did not at all lead to the exclusion of Greece from NATO. And when the military seized power in Turkey in 1980, this did not lead to its exclusion from the alliance either. This does not seem to be the case today, even though Turkey has developed almost into a functional dictatorship, characterised by harsh internal repression and great external aggression. If we then look more specifically at NATO's by far the largest and most important Member State, we see how values and interests there are involved in an ongoing exercise of power, where strong special interests often prevail while democracy and human rights come second. The foreign policy of the United States is therefore a constant zigzag, where democratic forces in the outside world are sometimes supported and sometimes fought. Of course, the American efforts against the great dictatorship system of the 20th century should not in any way be minimized, but should be something for which we should all be very grateful. But there is also no reason to fall into historylessness and with active oblivion, such as the planned and carried out coup against Iran's elected Prime Minister Mossadeq in 1953 by the CIA, when he nationalised the country's oil deposits. The same applies to the US-supported coups against other democratically elected leaders such as President Arbenz in Guatemala in 1954, President Sukarno in Indonesia in 1965 and President Allende in Chile in 1973. In this context, of course, we should not forget the American terrorist bombings of Indochina, with a few million civilian victims as a result. These were not carried out to support a democracy against a dictatorship, but rather a struggle between two dictatorships: the Southern Vietnamese military junta against the North Vietnamese Communist dictatorship. Madam President, I would like We are entering a new and very worrying nuclear race between Russia and the United States, but China is also becoming an increasingly heavy player. A new generation of relatively low-explosion nuclear weapons is under development, and this threatens to lower the threshold for their use as well. Both Russian and American official representatives suggest that these weapons may also be used against conventional combat forces. Against this background, it is more urgent than ever for Sweden to sign and ratify the NBT, Nuclear Ban Treaty, the UN's new nuclear ban convention. This is the convention that we and a further 121 countries voted in favour of in the General Assembly on 7 July last year. U.S. Secretary of Defense James. Mad Dog. Matti has in a secret, but leaked, letter to the Swedish Defence Minister threatened with consequences if we sign this convention. To fall away from such great power arrogance would be devastating, and if, in the end, the consequence were for NATO to terminate the host country agreement with Sweden, I could live with it. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-171	Madam President, I would like I just have a short question for Valter Mutt. The NBT agreement, to which Valter Mutt referred in his speech, was signed by Sweden in July. The conditions for this agreement and what it will mean for Sweden before it may be ratified by the Riksdag will now be investigated. This is an agreement to dismantle nuclear weapons around the world. This presupposes that the countries that hold nuclear weapons are also on the boat – otherwise it feels quite sightless. Now, however, none of the countries in the world that have nuclear weapons have agreed to sign this agreement. My question to Valter Mutt is this: is it not rather naive to believe this? How does Valter Mutt think it will lead to any success for a nuclear-free world when non-nuclear states sign an agreement for nuclear-weapon states to phase out their nuclear weapons while those that have nuclear weapons are not there?
i-9z4ZMtBeuoY4HS6CA7Ecom	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Söder, for the question! This is, of course, a relevant issue, but politics is also a matter of conducting opinion-forming. This is also true at the high level of the UN General Assembly. If 122 of the 194 Member States of the United Nations gather behind something, it is clear that it will be a very strong expression of opinion. As Björn Söder rightly points out, the nuclear weapons states were not among the 122 countries that voted in favour of this new convention – and not a single NATO country, by the way. But they are under pressure from a majority of earth's countries. After all, at least some of the nuclear weapons states are democracies, so I do not think we should underestimate the long-term impact of this pressure on opinion. It can, in turn – in the next step – lead on. That is how politics works: you start by running opinion, and then something happens in real politics. I have heard many times in my career as a green politician that I am naive, and that may seem hopeless. But when you come back a few years later, it may turn out that it wasn't so naive anyway.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-178	Madam President, I would like There is another agreement – not NBT but NPT – which is now claimed to be at risk because of NBT. I would like to ask Valter Mutt if he does not see that there could be consequences. If, now, the signing of the NBT could put the NPT at risk, does that not actually pose a greater risk of disarmament in the world as a whole?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-180	Madam President, I would like You often try to play NBT and NPT against each other, but I don't see it as obvious. I will also say that I have quite a lot of confidence in these 122 countries. It has not only been their UN ambassadors who have sat there and voted, but many of them have had considerable scientific resources at their disposal. So I think it is rather heavy factual competence that has led to this clear majority of the countries of the world having voted through the NBT. It has been weighed exactly what Björn Söder talks about – if it can in any way interfere with the older agreement NPT. Most of the earth's countries have found that synergies can be looked forward to.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-182	Madam President, I would like I've raised a motion for autonomous, deadly weapon systems, and that's what I want to talk about now. I agree with what Valter Mutt has said and I also agree with what Mrs Yasmine Nilsson has said. I would like to raise an issue that we are not discussing at all, namely those weapons systems that can use deadly force without a human being being in control. Already today there are advanced weapons of the type shoot and forget to find their targets. These could be AIM-120 AMRAM anti-aircraft missiles, for example. But it's always a human being who decides to shoot them off. There are also defensive weapons, such as Phalanx or CIWS systems, which defend, for example, aircraft carriers that themselves shoot down targets. But they are still partly under the control of human operators, and that is defensive. Despite this, they have killed their own soldiers when they are mistaken for what constitutes threat or happened to damage ships in the line of fire. The new technology, which is under development, is fully autonomous weapon systems that, with the help of advanced sensors and artificial intelligence, choose targets themselves and whether a deadly weapon effort should be made. They can also be used offensively. These new weapons can lower the threshold for war by reducing the risk to their own country's soldiers. They can be hacked and taken over or stolen by terrorists. They can be used by dictatorships against their own people. And an AI-controlled robot can make us do anything. It no longer requires the consent of military personnel to carry out the killing. They can be made smaller and smaller, and they are extremely difficult to control if they are released on the market. Even today, a Chinese company has developed an advanced laser that can kill 30 to 40 mosquitoes a second autonomously, and it will of course accidentally shoot flies. This will easily be scaled up to kill people. If one is then hijacked by terrorists and exhibited in cities, it may be very difficult to defend oneself, and then it is no longer flies that die like flies but people who die like flies. KAIST University in South Korea is already threatened by boycott by 50 AI researchers for their development work with autonomous, deadly weapon systems. Sweden is well ahead in AI. I myself have been to several full day conferences, very interesting. And there are many civil, important applications that can provide us with better care, safer jobs, cheaper services, and more. Although this use may pose risks to privacy or growing social gaps, it can also help to shorten working hours and bring many other benefits. If Sweden becomes a driving force in the fight against killer robots, all researchers who come here can feel confident that the AI technology developed here focuses on helping humanity in well-regulated forms, not destroying it. The rest of my exercise is about how a safe and good regulation of artificial intelligence is needed to protect us. But this part was rejected, Madam President, as early as last week. Weapons need meaningful human control in order to be used in line with international law. Who can be held responsible if a robot decides who's going to live and who's going to die? Despite the fact that this is a very important subject, and also a new one, with rapid development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has chosen to deal with the motion only in a simplified way. I know that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has many motions and does so out of time. M one that is unfortunate, because the issue is important enough to discuss. This also means that the committee does not justify why it wants to discourage my motion to ban these weapons systems and that Sweden should push forward in the international work. It is rarely bad timing not to take my proposal seriously because the UN is currently having a conference in Geneva on the Convention for certain conventional weapons, just as I am speaking here in the pulpit. Work has now begun on the so-called Laws, the weapons I am talking about. The Convention has been successful before and has given us a ban on weapons with hidden fragments of weapons, which cannot therefore be removed from bodies, laser weapons and land mines. Now it has begun to work even with autonomous, deadly weapon systems. In its submissions to the meeting, the United States has defended the development of these weapons and sees it as a good and interesting development. Russia is postponing the issue, and they want to try to limit their definition. Surprisingly, China, on the other hand, as the only country with a permanent seat in the Security Council, took a critical position. It has recently softened somewhat, as it requires regulation rather than ban. But in his submission China writes that it reduces the threshold for starting war and that these weapons will have difficulty distinguishing between civilian and military targets. Neither Sweden nor the EU have submitted any comments in advance to the meeting. On the other hand, the 113 NAM states of the Non-Aligned Movement, many former colonies and developing countries, have accepted the logic that we will have to ban some of these weapons. There are 22 countries that have already signed a proposal for a ban. The only European country that has signed the proposal is the Vatican State, but they have good company with countries in Asia, the Middle East, South America and Africa. On 9 July, the deadline expires for presenting opinions for the next August meeting, when it is expected to go beyond definition issues and start discussing policy proposals. Then it is remarkable that we do not take the opportunity to have an opinion from the Swedish Parliament on this important issue. The greatest betrayal of future generations would be not to take the chance to stop these weapons before they exist. To those who have criticised the NBT proposal because the countries with nuclear weapons are not included: take the opportunity now to ban these weapons before any country has them! Maybe it's easier. The ultimate collapse of civilization would be to surrender power over who will live and who will die to robots. I therefore support my motion 2017/ 18:2655 and urge you to raise this issue with your party leaders. Should not the parliament today vote for a more secure future rather than leaving the development of the death robots wind by wave? Finally, I would like to say that on general security policy issues we must constantly bear in mind what Mr Valter and Mr Yasmine have mentioned today, that if we allow drastic climate change and allow humanity to destroy the conditions for its own future, we will never have a safe world. Let us always remember that in the security work.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-201	Madam President, I would like All civilized countries must act with the means at their disposal to free the world from nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons, no matter who controls them, and safety are completely incompatible concepts. We in Sweden, of course, do not control what other countries choose to do but well over our own actions and positions. We may be a small country in the world, but it is still not insignificant how we act. And there is much that Sweden can do to contribute to these doomsday weapons being once and for all relegated to the waste heap of history, where they belong. It is therefore self-evident that Sweden is first ratifying the UN Convention banning nuclear weapons, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, a convention that Sweden has pushed for and which we voted in favour of at the UN General Assembly on 7 July last year. There's nothing to doubt here. What we do or do not do sends an important signal to the outside world. Furthermore, Sweden needs legislation that explicitly and unequivocally prohibits the introduction of nuclear weapons into Swedish territory. Here we can follow the example of our neighbour Finland. Madam President, I would like There are several countries to be inspired by when it comes to security policy. New Zealand is a very interesting pioneer country. Since the 1980s, it has regulated the status of a nuclear-free zone. Please read the law, which is short and handy: New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act 1987. The law includes, among other things, the right to ensure that ships wishing to enter the country's ports do not carry nuclear weapons or operate nuclear reactors. In 1985 the New Zealand government, under Prime Minister David Lange, showed that it was serious about its decision to keep the country free of nuclear weapons; it was not just fine words. The U.S. warship USS Buchanan, who had the ability to carry nuclear weapons, was rejected from entering New Zealand port when, in accordance with its policy, the U.S. Navy refused to comment on whether nuclear weapons were on board or not. Neither config, nor deny-- neither confirm nor deny-- is the policy we still have today. This meant that no American warships entered New Zealand ports for 33 years, even though New Zealand is part of a military alliance with Australia and the United States. After adopting the law, New Zealand was put under various pressure to abandon its clear anti-nuclear stance, but it resisted. The popular support continues to be strong for this offensive and exemplary policy of peace. So, how's it going? Yeah, pretty good. The sun continues to rise and fall upon this little country that dared to stand up for peace, and life goes well. We have relations with other countries, and all of us have had a good example to follow. Madam President, I would like When it comes to issues that literally relate to life and death, pious hopes and an uncontrollable expectation are not enough that nuclear countries will respect Sweden's nuclear freedom if we invite them to various military exercises and the like. We must be able to ensure that nuclear weapons are not brought into the country. Therefore, Sweden, like New Zealand, must introduce a control mechanism and in practice demand the right to inspect foreign marine units and air forces in order for them to enter Swedish territory. Let me give an example to further illustrate what I mean. In Sweden it is illegal for pedestrians to walk towards red man, but you will not be punished if you do it anyway. A nuclear power, on the other hand, could violate international law and introduce nuclear weapons into Sweden, even if we made it a condition for granting permission for the visit that they should not carry nuclear weapons. Of course, something that cannot even be detected cannot be prevented or punished. But surely we should be more careful about peace and everyone's safety than if anyone goes against the red man. Madam President, I would like The problem that Sweden lacks control mechanisms to ensure that foreign marine units or air combat forces do not bring nuclear weapons into Swedish territory is not new but has been updated now that Sweden has entered into host country agreements with NATO. With this, Sweden has exposed itself to political pressure. Valter Mutt mentioned it, and we all remember how, according to leaked documents, the US Secretary of Defence James. Mad Matti put pressure on Sweden to refrain from signing the Convention on the Global Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Mr Matti referred to both the host country agreement with NATO and the bilateral defence agreement between Sweden and the United States. It is worth recalling the warnings that were expressed from many quarters in Parliament and outside it in the run-up to the parliamentary decision on the host country agreement that, by definition, the form of the agreement actually implies uncertainty whether Sweden is really at any time free from nuclear weapons on our territory. That is a very serious objection, because this uncertainty increases the risk that our country will be targeted at Russian nuclear missiles. The warnings were dismissed and ridiculed by the promoters of the, in my view, ill-prepared and poorly democratically prepared decision to conclude host country agreements with NATO. But we must never forget that NATO is a nuclear alliance, and we now see that the warnings were justified. Nuclear weapons never provide security, regardless of nationality. On the contrary, they always increase uncertainty for everyone. Let me give you an example. Weapons systems are created and controlled by humans. It can even be like Carl Schlyter said that they are controlled by machines, and then it is on a different level. But so far they are controlled by people, and neither humans nor systems are perfect. That's what history tells us. Mistakes are made. Let me remind you of a hero too unknown, Stanislav Petrov. How many people have heard of him? He was a Soviet officer who in 1983 most likely saved the world from nuclear war. He chose not to obey orders and refrained from reporting an indication that American nuclear missiles had been fired against the Soviets. This proved to be a false alarm. Petrov's assessment was based on a thorough knowledge of this system. We cannot have a world order of stability and peace based on the fact that it happens to be an officer on duty who knows a system and dares violate orders. It goes without saying that we cannot take such great risks. In plain language, if a Russian nuclear missile were to be fired against Sweden, what would it do if a NATO missile were sent against Russia? This simply cannot happen. It is certainly not destined that Sweden must take the evil with the good and crawl under NATO's nuclear umbrella. Circumstances are always different and it is rarely a good idea to copy what others have done, but the main features of New Zealand's peace policy show the way forward. There are other ways for Sweden to go further into NATO if we really want security. I would like to say something to the effect that Sweden is not going into NATO but out of NATO. It's possible. What we need to do at first in the situation we are in is, like New Zealand, to legislate to require the right of inspection of foreign marine units and air combat forces. If they refuse, we will deny them access to Swedish territory. Therefore, I would like to support paragraph 3 of motion 2017/ 18:2960: Parliament supports the motion on the right of inspection of foreign marine units and air combat forces and announces this to the government. This does not solve all the problems, but it is a step towards greater real security.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-226	Madam President, I would like This is a motion report which includes the preparation of a wide range of motions on crisis management, emergency preparedness and also now civil defence. It is worth noting in particular that this report, which in previous years has been called Crisis Preparedness this year, is called Civil Defense and Crisis Preparedness. It is a reflection of the international deterioration that we have been able to observe for a number of years. It should not have escaped anyone in this House that, just before Christmas last year, the Committee on Defence put forward a whole series of proposals on civil defence and total defence planning. We did this under the heading. It was, Madam President, an almost unique political consensus that surrounded the report of the Defence Committee, and a long series of heavy proposals were put forward to improve Sweden's civil preparedness. Among other things, the defense committee stated that an armed attack on Sweden can no longer be ruled out. We turned to the Swedish citizens of the country and explained that it is not enough for an individual to be responsible for his or her own livelihood for 72 hours. This time has now been changed to one week. The defence committee also proposed a completely new structure – one can say that it is new – for the construction of a civil defence, both vertically and geographically. Last but not least, eight parties in full agreement proposed that the budget for civil defence and total defence planning n 2025 should amount to around 4.2 billion annually. The motions discussed in the report relate to areas affected by the Defence Committee's proposal, and it has therefore been natural to refer to the further preparation of the Defence Committee's proposals. A few weeks after the Defence Committee presented its report in Christmas, the annual Rikskonferens Folk och Försvar i Sälen took place. From the government – both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence – it was quick to say that it would implement the proposals made by the preparation for, for example, war-important companies and the creation of a new authority for psychological defence. But after the press conferences, Madam President, nothing has been heard about the Defence Committee's report. I am one of several people who now think it is time for the government to follow up on the various proposals of the Defence Committee. There is a serious rush; there is a danger of delay. It is a sensitive, fragile society, and we are living in an increasingly uncertain time. It is also almost pointless, Madam President, for political parties to participate in a defence preparation unless the broad coverage of those proposals is also realised by the current government. Now is the time to start asking the question to both social democrats and environmentalists: what really is happening in the Government Office when it comes to preparing the proposals on resilience? It's time to show you workshop and action. About a year ago, there was an investigation into communication for our common security. The investigation pointed out that the liaison system used today by so-called blue light authorities and the Swedish Armed Forces jointly, namely Rakel, has become out of fashion. Through the system there is only the possibility to speak and send text messages. The ability to send images or moving images is not available. When the shortcomings were highlighted, the government set up an investigation – it was very good – to look at how to both modernise the system and expand it geographically. It reported its conclusions more than a year ago. The government is now setting up new investigations in this area, and reference is made to preparatory work under way in the Government Office. The committee has chosen to try, in broad political agreement, to speed up the government. It hastens on this issue. It is now, in the coming years, that a total defence planning will be built between civilian and military authorities, and a prerequisite for this is that one has a secret and secure communication between oneself. Finally, Madam President, we have noted in the Alliance that business today plays an important role in civil defence. Many of the tasks of government agencies and companies during the Cold War are currently outsourced. If we are to meet the challenges of fuel security, medicines, food and others, the industry must be involved early and clearly in planning. In just a year and a half from now we are holding the first total defence exercise in several decades in Sweden, and in this exercise we also need to involve the private companies. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 9.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-241	Mr President, I would like to In Dagens Nyheter from Saturday, the Prime Minister says, "Those who have been refused must leave the country." Two years ago, the then Minister of the Interior said that up to 80 000 people with a refusal decision could have to be expelled from Sweden. On the contrary, data now indicate that 50 000 people are staying illegally in Sweden, and the number is expected to increase by another 40 000 over the next four years. Together, this corresponds to the entire population of my own neighboring town of Eskilstuna. Unless this changes, it leads to a permanent shadow society with vulnerability, exploitation and crime. These are people who are at risk of both harm and harm. I think this makes us both deeply concerned. It also undermines the legitimacy of Swedish migration and integration policy that is absolutely necessary. Almost all Swedes really think that a yes should be a yes and lead to that you quickly learn Swedish and get a job and that a no should be a no and that you then leave Sweden. Everyone knows, however, that it does not work that way today. The Finnish Immigration Service's detention is now completely full. You're forced to release people to be expelled. The government says that the situation is unacceptable but does almost nothing to seriously break the trend. I think this is a matter of national interest. We could bring together a very large majority for a considerate, credible and clear policy on what applies in Sweden. I am open to such political agreements, both before and after the elections, regardless of who leads the next government.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-246	Mr President, I would like to I think we agree on the principle that I outlined in the News of Today: a yes is a yes, and a no is a no. If this is not the starting point, the credibility of migration policy will, of course, be much lower. There's a deal. I do not think it is a challenge, of course, that the people who have come here and been rejected have to leave the country. However, it should now be remembered that a total of 47 000 left the country in 2015, 2016 and 2017. If the number this year is the same as 2017, about 13 000, this means that 60 000 people have left the country. That's one picture of it. But I am not saying that it is enough, but we need to show seriously that you should leave the country if you have received a no. That is why, among other things, we are increasing the number of detention centres considerably. We have done so in our time. We have also just received an investigation where the investigator indicates that we may need to do more to allow those who have received a no to gather on a more limited geographical area, so that we can have control of them. Police have now been given increased powers to carry out inspections in the workplace. We know that many of these people are being exploited in a very unscrupulous manner by some employers. That's why we're making it easier for the police. There is now no need for a suspicion of crime to enter, but it is sufficient to suspect that there may be something that is not correct. It makes it easier for the police, and they have confirmed it. It will spare them a lot of work and make it more effective. We also go on to review the police's ability to take identity documents and so on into custody. We need to do more here, and I am absolutely open to discussing what can be done more in this area.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-250	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I do not question the Prime Minister's basic goodwill. What I question is the ability to do something. It's great that 60 000 people have left the country. However, if 90 000 are still in the country, we have a very big problem in any case. I do not think that the activity of the government is really proportionate to the seriousness of the problem. You are now receiving an investigation and slowly starting to expand a fairly limited number of new detention centres. But those who work with this say that it is an acute problem and that you cannot even take care of the people you know to be expelled. These risk going underground because they do not have detention places. It's too little and too late. I do not think that the government is taking this issue seriously, especially in the light of the fact that, with a bill in the spirit of the High School Act, double signals are being sent to those who already have a final decision to leave the country. This does not create credibility for Swedish migration policy.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-253	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like Kristersson is now more interested in not agreeing on this. If it is about ability, Ulf Kristersson, why did you do nothing about the number of detention places? It is during our government period that the number of detention centres has increased considerably and will continue to increase. The responsible authorities are now looking at an increase in the number of detention centres which I believe is more than a doubling. It is during our reign that something has happened. It is during our reign that inspections of workplaces have been made possible. It is during our government period that we have looked at the possibility of reviewing ID documents, passports and so on. This is where things are done! But I am not saying that we are therefore satisfied and that everything is now good. No, we're going to have to do more and we're going to keep doing it. Let us see what opportunities we can develop together instead of seeking quarrels on the matter!
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-257	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! If we listen to the government in the debate, we usually hear that we have world-class healthcare in Sweden. I'll sign it. We have. We stand very well in international comparisons when it comes to the quality of Swedish healthcare. The problem is not that we are bad at health care, but that we are bad at offering health care. Health care in Sweden is very inaccessible. We have the lowest number of care places per capita across Europe. We also have the longest healthcare queues in Europe. That, of course, is not acceptable, Mr President. Now it is evident that elections are approaching, not least on the promise-carousel that has started with Stefan Löfven and the Social Democratic Government. Prior to the last election, Stefan Löfven promised a medical lift. Trainee jobs and education would save health care. As you know, the trend has gone in the opposite direction. It's just getting worse. We were able to note in August 2014 that the Social Democrats presented a reform of the future to improve the quality and secure the future supply of human resources in health care. Now, Mr President, similar promises are made. It is just a little over a month ago that Stefan Löfven promised 14 000 more health care workers in 2022 in a debate article in Dagens Nyheter. Then Stefan Löfven talks about nurses, specialist nurses, doctors and so on. My simple question to the Prime Minister is: where will these come from? The development now means that you do not want to work in health care because of the poor working conditions. How will Stefan Löfven find 14,000 health care workers by 2022?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-259	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Jimmie Åkesson listens to the government when it comes to health care, because the alternative is very sparse. The own option is based on tax reductions. One thing I know, Jimmie Åkesson : If you concentrate on reducing taxes, as the Swedish Democrats want to do, there will be no more resources for health care. During our term of office, we have already contributed resources to health care. Today we have in Swedish welfare not only in health care, collected, about 100 000 more people who work. Some of them are in health care. We need to ensure that we continue to make that effort. That is why the electoral promise that we have now made builds on what we have already done. We can show in action that if you take in tax revenue and distribute it, it will also benefit health care. That's why more people are hired. That is why we are making an initiative for health care where the regions and county councils are free to choose what they want to do. We are making an effort to point out that more people need to be employed and that the conditions need to be improved. A special effort is being made to protect patients' rights in an even better way. There are justified criticisms there. It takes too long to get into medical care. This is not addressed by tax cuts. There is not a simple solution to that. But I can see a common denominator. It's that we need to hire more staff. For too long too few nurses, specialist nurses and doctors have been trained. That's what we're increasing now. We make it easier for nurses to continue training as specialist nurses, among other things, by ensuring that they can retain their salary during the study period. When I talk to the nurses, they say it's a good opportunity for them. This is where an investment in health care has begun. It has to go on. Everyone should know that when they need good care, they should receive it, and that should apply throughout our country.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-264	Mr President, I would like to It's a little symptomatic for the government that what you say sounds very good. I can stand here and say that everyone should be well and no one should be bad. Sounds great, doesn't it? The interesting thing is how to put power behind those words. I now note that during the two minutes' speaking time, the Prime Minister spends about 15 seconds answering my specific question. Where's he going to find all these new health workers? The development right now, apart from retirements and other things, is that, as a nurse today, you are working very much with something other than health care, or you are working in Norway, because there are working conditions that are decent. Mr President, I would like to I believe that instead of what the Prime Minister and the Government are proposing, we need to have even more training places, we need to start at the other end. We need to start by improving conditions so that we can attract people back into the care profession and that more people want to train in the care profession to be nurses, specialist nurses, doctors and the like. There the government lacks understanding and action.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-268	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson must start listening as well when others speak. I have just explained what has been done during this parliamentary term. We have provided the health care system with substantial resources. I spend over $10 billion on medical care alone. Some go to what regions and county councils are allowed to do themselves. They're free to choose how to use that money. Some help you to hire more in health care: nurses, nurses and specialist nurses. We train more, and we train more doctors, and so on. We already do. That's not enough. The care is not good enough. Too many people have to wait. But I know one thing: we must have more resources there. There will be no more resources with the Swedish Democrats' proposals for tax cuts. No, it won't be anymore. Let us first of all agree on that today. It is the first road to be chosen this autumn. Either we invest in each other, and then we get more resources for health care, or we continue to reduce taxes that the Swedish Democrats want.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-272	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven! I often take the train up to Umeå. Then I go on one of Sweden's most modern railways, Botniabanan, which passes Örnsköldsvik, the Prime Minister's hometown. It is built with borrowed money, and it is a great success. The trains are often full of people. It makes great climate benefits, and it means a lot to regional development. Now we face much greater challenges and needs. We need to build fast trains from Stockholm to Malmö, from Stockholm to Gothenburg and perhaps also from Stockholm to Oslo. It would replace the large heavy lines in domestic aviation with more environmentally friendly alternatives. It would free up large capacity on the main roads so that more goods could go by rail. There could be more trains coming on time. Large parts of Sweden could be winners in regional development. We know that the sooner we do this, the greater the benefits of climate change and economic benefits. The arguments are therefore strong in order to do so quickly and therefore also to borrow money for the investment, just as with the Botnia Line. The climate also requires us to do this. We do not want future generations to tell us: You could have done a lot of things, but you chose not to do it even though you had that opportunity. We know how urgent the climate is. One advantage of the loan funding is that there will be money over to rail in other parts of Sweden. We do not want to set the high-speed trains towards Norrbotniabanan or good train traffic in Dalarna or West Sweden. We're in favour of this. The Green Party is willing to do so, and the Center Party is willing to do so. If the Social Democrats want, there is the parliamentary majority to make an absolutely decisive, rapid future investment for Sweden. Why do the Social Democrats hesitate? Is it not time to finance this important step into the future, this important climate investment?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-277	Mr President, I would like to At first I got a little teary when I heard Örnsköldsvik mentioned. It did good. In the forthcoming framework, we have allocated a great deal more money, not least for public transport and also for railways, precisely for the reasons mentioned by Jonas Sjöstedt. We need to move more transport from road to rail and not least freight transport. It's all in that direction. But there is no quickfix, as Sjöstedt suggests, that you can only borrow. Someone will pay for those loans and guarantee those loans. We also want to invest in high-speed trains. That's right. This applies to Stockholm–Gothenburg, Stockholm– Malmö and Malmö–Gothenburg. It's the right thing to do. But it must not crowd out everything else. For example, I am interested in Norrbotniabanan in the future. I also believe that Jonas Sjöstedt is. If you are going to invest in high-speed trains, it must not mean that all other projects are being pushed out. Let us see what can be done here within the framework of the fiscal framework. It still has to be the basis. We can't just say: let's skip it, and we'll fund it anyway. It sometimes sounds like it was so simple that there was a lot of extra money just borrowing. But the loans should also be paid, and someone should guarantee those loans. With the rules that exist, it is the state that will have to do so. There's no magic wand you can swing. That is why we are preparing to look at: What is the opportunity to do this? We want to do this. It's a discussion. Do all trains have to go 200 miles an hour from start to finish? They won't. Some distances they may walk at 250 kilometers per hour It is also high speed. This is absolutely necessary in order to cope with the expansion at all. Yes to high-speed trains. But it must not crowd out everything else, and it must be done responsibly.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-285	Mr President, I would like to The climate requires a quick fix. The climate is not waiting for a slow fix. There's already a rush. The advantage of loan financing is that then the money is also enough for Norrbotniabanan and all the other projects that we want to do. It worked with the Bothnia Line. It was because we borrowed it that we built the railway to Örnsköldsvik. It's been a success. That's not unreasonable. Future generations benefit from the railways. They're in on it. We have iron checks on state finances and large surpluses. No one can say we're sloppy with government money. We want companies to take out loans, invest for the future and increase competitiveness. That is how we should think as a country. We'll be ready for the future. We are going to become more competitive, and we are going to make the climate investments that the climate needs. Stefan Löfven : The political parliamentary majority lies ahead of you. Don't lose it. Take care of it.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-290	Mr President, I would like to I'm not gonna mess with the economy either. It is essential because we are able to do what we are doing now and what we are going to have to do is to keep the economy in order. There's no free money anywhere. It's easy to say it's just borrowing. But somewhere is it to be paid, and somewhere is the blame for that money. It is absolutely right that we should now transfer more resources. In the next plan we will transfer more resources, because that is quite right for climate reasons. Then the discussion is about how much the high-speed train costs, what speed it should be on these trains and so on. So, yes, we want to go in that direction. But it should be done with responsibility, and it should still be the case that other urgent projects can also become a reality.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-292	Mr President, I would like to 17.5 percent – such a large proportion of the students who completed the ninth grade this summer were not eligible for upper secondary school. This is the highest figure ever measured in Swedish history. There are 20,000 students hiding behind the percentage. So many students didn't get into high school's national program. It was 13 per cent in 2014, and now it is 171⁄2 per cent. In addition to these, there are almost as many as 20 000 more who are entering high school but who are not able to complete it but who are dropping out. So it is between 35 000 and 40 000 pupils each year who are unable to take a high school degree. That's a third of every year. The upper secondary school for everyone promised by Göran Persson at the time when all educations would be three years old in upper secondary school has become a secondary school for two thirds. Upper secondary school and its construction are today a major cause of segregation and exclusion. We therefore propose from the Alliance that we reintroduce what Göran Persson abolished, namely two-year vocational training – of course in modern language and with a focus on professional orientation. It is clear that it is better to take a three-year course and obtain university qualifications than to take a two-year course. But it is better to attend a two - year education where you learn a profession than not to attend any education at all and to drop out and fail. This is a problem that we have not been able to solve. I'll admit we didn't figure it out. But you haven't solved it either. In 25 years, there has been about the same rate of failure each year, i.e. one third. Now I happen to note that the Prime Minister himself has attended a two-year high school education, and it was good to become both welder and trade union president and even prime minister. It is possible that the Prime Minister would have gone even further in his career if he had gone a third year and perhaps become President or something. Not everyone wants to become an academic, Prime Minister, and not everyone can become an academic. Society doesn't work if everyone's an academic. It is better to complete vocational training than to drop out of a long education with very high academic standards. What's wrong with two years of high school education, Prime Minister?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-300	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll just say it's been a few years since I was in high school. In those days, Jan Björklund, the labour market has changed dramatically. I went to high school in the '70s. It's been a few years. We know today that if you do not have a secondary school degree, you have a very difficult time in the labour market. Listen to the business community, because now we are talking about Swedish skills provision! The business community says they want three-year courses with university qualifications. They think that the proposal that we have put on Parliament's table to have this as a starting point and then possibly get to choose from is a good direction. The bourgeoisie then opposes this – against what the Swedish business community wants. How can we support companies with the right skills if we do not even do what they ask us to do and ensure that three-year training courses are the starting point? Let me remind Jan Björklund, who is the creator of the measure to remove higher education qualifications, that since this started to be discussed until today, only half as many students are attending vocational programmes compared to 2006 – half! The business community says that 100 000 jobs are not filled and that they lack properly trained labour. What's a signal on? Well, you need a well-trained workforce. The business community also says that they want the three-year training courses in particular. This has happened since I went to high school, Jan Björklund, and it's the same for you. But, of course, more needs to be done, and that is why, among other things, we are developing cooperation between the parties so that they too can take greater responsibility for ensuring that people enter the labour market. That's why we're on the local job tracks. When you locally find matching and where companies can say what education you need to have, it also becomes a job. Skills development is extremely important.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-305	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the first post, it is of course much better to go further education and learn even more than to take a shorter education. That is not the question. The question is whether it is better to take a shorter education than none at all. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise welcomed the Alliance's proposal on Tuesday, if the Prime Minister took note of it. What he refers to is not true. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise therefore welcomes the Alliance's proposal. Of course, we do not intend to abolish three-year vocational training. They are good for all those who are able to carry them out; that is not what this is about. It's about the third drop-off and knock-out. It is so strange that, with this party and your speech on solidarity and that everyone should join, for 25 years, one third of every year has been left behind. And you don't care. You're stuck in the idea that everyone has to study university skills. I agree that we need a lot more than when we were young. Of course, many more people are needed today who attend university education. But 100% does not have to attend university education. There is nothing wrong with vocational training, Prime Minister.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-309	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund has completely misunderstood. We have never said that everyone should attend a university education. Listen to the companies and what they say! The starting point is three-year programmes, and that is what we have proposed. But the possibility of opting out should exist. We are now also developing vocational training – even shorter ones. It does not need to be an entire construction programme, for example, but shorter vocational training precisely in order to get into work quickly. You can learn a certain part to get into work immediately thereafter, but you should have the opportunity to continue, read on and develop. You should never be stopped anywhere, but you should be able to develop all the time. Listen to the Swedish business community! They say: What we need for our skills supply are vocational programmes that are pre-requisites for higher education. Then there should be an opportunity to opt out for those who are unable to do so. That's the way to go.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-313	Mr President, I would like to Elvira is four years old. She has severe brain damage, she's blind, and she has epilepsy. In order to sit, she needs a support corset. She can stand for short periods of time by means of a standing shell. Elvira's parents have applied for personal assistance, but the Social Insurance Agency has both rejected this on the grounds that it is the responsibility of the parents to take care of their child. Elvira and her family are not unique. I meet many children like Elvira and not least their parents. The question they keep returning to is: Why has the course been changed in Sweden? Why should we, who are already so affected, not be able to count on personal assistance? The difference, Mr President, is quite marked. As of 2015, more and more applications have been rejected. Today, 1 200 fewer children and adults have personal assistance compared to 2015. Then it will be extremely provocative for Eijas's father Mattias. Eija is also a girl with severe disabilities. Her Facebook page was recently tagged by the Social Democrats. There the Prime Minister told us that the economy is very strong in our country and that it should then be noticed for ordinary people through increased child benefit. When Eijas's father tried to answer by describing the family situation, the Social Democrats were quick to delete the post. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Is not Elvira, Eijas and all other families where someone has a disability like ordinary people? They have not been better off, but they have suffered a radical deterioration.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-318	Mr President, I would like to As you know, I cannot comment on individual matters. But it is clear that we have no differences of opinion about LSS and what it offers. It is a law of rights that applies just as when we took office. There is no law that has changed that makes this happen. On the other hand, we all know that there are a number of judgments that have come. This suggests one thing: that today's law may not be up to date. If judgments can be drafted on the basis of today's law that causes so many people to suffer, that is something that we should review. I hope that we agree on this. We need a thorough review of today's law. In the meantime, the government has done something that I would say is very unusual. We have introduced what is in practice a moratorium. We should not have any re-examinations of these matters precisely so that more people will not be affected. Let us now make sure to help create a new, sustainable law that is still based on the individual's right to help when needed. Today's law simply does not measure up. So we agree that we have a problem. We agree that the law is not good enough, and then we must do something about it. In the meantime, we're going to the moratorium.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-323	Mr President, I would like to I believe that none of these affected families who listen to the debate recognizes the social democracy. Every election movement has said that you are on the side of the weak, but now that you have the government power, the figures are clear. 1,200 fewer people today have personal assistance compared to 2014. But I, Mr President, recognise the Social Democrats. You're not prepared to take responsibility, you're blaming everyone else. It is the fault of some authority and the fault of the courts. The fact is that this started when the Minister of Finance said that it is on personal assistance that we must ensure that there are cuts, when the government set up an investigation to reduce the cost of personal assistance and when giving a commission to the Social Insurance Agency to start being restrictive and implicitly start looking through if there were no judgments. Why aren't these families ordinary people? Why shouldn't they get better too? 1,200 families have been affected since 2015.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-326	Mr President, I would like to I'm upset, too, just like Anders W Jonsson. But I do not lend myself to such cheap demagogy as I hear now. It's a low level now. No Minister of Finance has said that assistance should be withdrawn. On the other hand, we also need to see in that post how costs develop, and we know that some of it is actually criminal activity and cheating. It is also taking place in this sector. Those are facts. Anders W Jonsson knows very well that it is not the government that makes decisions in these different cases, but it is actually authorities that do. That is the order we have in Sweden. I do not think it was in bourgeois times that it was the bourgeois government that approved or rejected applications, but it does an authority. We have that order. Then it is ultimately tried in court. That is why we need to look at this. Instead of spending time on that cheap demagogy, let us help each other.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-330	Mr President, I would like to Prior to the 2014 elections, in June, the Social Democrats – guaranteed – promised that all cancer patients would receive treatment within four weeks. You have not fulfilled that promise, Stefan Löfven. In just three years, this government has been able to double the care queues. Let me give you an example. In the case of patients with breast cancer in the Prime Minister's own county of Västernorrland, only half of them receive treatment on time. You failed your promise, Stefan Löfven, but you seem to ignore it. Instead, you are now re-using the promise that you have failed. On the nursing tour that Stefan Löfven has been on during the spring, this promise has been used again. The queues for cancer care should be shortened. Waiting times are to be shortened. But why should the cancer patients, the voters, trust you this time, Stefan Löfven, when you reuse a failed election promise?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-332	Mr President, I would like to We also had a discussion in a previous change of line about the fact that the care queues are too long and must be shortened. But let us not begin to throw the various county councils and regions against each other. Then you could also say, if you want to, that one of the biggest increases in care queues happens to be in Västra Götaland, and it is not a Social Democratic county council. So let us see the problem as it is. I think that the previous bourgeois government made a good effort with the so-called standardised health care processes precisely in relation to cancer diagnosis. It was a good start, and we've moved on with that now. Now there is a standardised course of care for 30 or 31 different cancer diagnoses. You know exactly what to do and at what time – because they are different acutes too; some have to be handled extremely quickly while others can wait a bit. Then the patients know that you get equal care and equal treatment no matter where you live in the country. It's extremely important. So it is not the case that we are re-using an election promise. We have continued the work of the previous government and add a lot of resources, in addition to what I have talked about before, to the care – also especially to cancer care, because we think it is extremely important that if you get such a message, you should of course know that you get help as quickly as it is ever possible. Then society should be there for you. So we need to do more here. M en it is again so, Andreas Carlson, that it will require resources. Then it will not be possible to focus on reduced taxes, but then we must ensure that we move towards resources, common resources, and can allocate them. A considerable part of it must enter Swedish care, for you should know that when you are at your most weakest, our community should be at its strongest.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-336	Mr President, I would like to One might say: On the fruit you know the tree. You've been in power now for almost four years, Stefan Löfven. What is the result? Care queues have doubled. What is said sounds good here in Parliament's pulpit, but the results in reality point in another direction. Why should the voters who voted for you in 2014, perhaps because you promised to receive cancer treatment within four weeks, choose you once again on the same promise? No, what is needed is absolutely more resources. We from the Christian Democrats are investing 27 1⁄2 billion more than the government in our budget option. We also believe that structurally correct reforms are needed. We need to use the knowledge available to find better ways of working, but we also want to remove the county councils' hospital responsibility and put it on the state to get more equal care. We will work hard on these issues and not just reuse old electoral promises.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-339	Mr President, I would like to I told you earlier that the care queues need to be attacked. V i has in many parts the world's best medical care, but it takes too long to get in. I think the common denominator for this is to hire more staff. If it's going to be possible, we have to educate more people, and that's exactly what we're doing now. We train more nurses and specialist nurses, and we will train more doctors. Then we have to bring resources so that we can hire more. We have already done so, and we will have to continue to do so. That is why I say that we need to increase the number – now I am not talking about those who need to be replaced – by another 14 000, and we will see to it that it happens. I was in Gällivare not so long ago, and there you could see very clearly how this has become. They said, "We've hired three more nurses." Now we can shorten the care queues. Now we see that we have more care places. That is the common denominator, and it requires resources. Then tax cuts cannot be made.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-344	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address the Prime Minister with a question about the financial situation of pensioners. I have the great privilege of having my mother Gunhild alive. She was born in 1929, and we just celebrated her 89th birthday. It feels good. But it is clear to me how difficult it is for many elderly women alone to have it financially. It is a very difficult economic situation, and I am well aware of that. Previously, these women have probably worked part-time and had a family to take care of with children and homes and so on, and gender equality was not as good then as it is now, although we still have a lot to work on – I am, for example, the first woman after all these men here at Question Time. We have taken note of what pensioners' organisations show and highlight the difficulties of the economic situation of the elderly. Among other things, many are below the EU's poverty threshold, and the number that does is highest in the Nordic countries. I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister has a comment on this.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-348	Mr President, I would like to My mother was also born in 1929, but her birthday is a little later this year. The elderly who have been involved in building our society should have a safe old age, also economically. We have invested in our elderly during this term of office, partly by making it easier to go to dental care and partly through free outpatient care for those over 85 years of age and so on. We have also been able to reduce taxes on pensioners. All in all, our efforts so far have meant that a pensioner has received an average – now we are talking about an average – SEK 1 100 more in his wallet a month. However, we still have some who have it far too weak, those who have a guarantee pension. That is why we are now working on a proposal to increase the guarantee pension. We also raise the housing supplement and introduce a new factor in the guarantee pension, a new support, so to speak, so that you can get up to SEK 1,300 more per month.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-353	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Public health in Sweden is good in an international perspective. However, it is no comfort to those suffering from ill health. One aspect of our feeling that I think we need to talk more about is mental illness. Mental illness currently accounts for about 46 per cent of all ongoing sick leave according to Försäkringskassan – 46 per cent! Between 2011 and 2017, sick leave more than doubled due to psychiatric diagnosis. Mr President, I would like to I'm concerned about developments. It would be interesting to hear how the Prime Minister views developments and what the government does to deal with them.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-356	Mr President, I would like to Public health is a very important area, not least mental illness. We see that in particular many women working in the public sector, in the welfare sector, have been affected by this. Stress and wear and tear mean that you are forced to leave sick. That is why it is important once again that we ensure that they have enough colleagues so that they do not have to wear themselves out at work. They should be able to go to work and make a good effort, as they please, without having to wear themselves out. We also need much better rehabilitation. How do you get help back once you're on sick leave? It's not just sick leave, and hope they come back. There must be a good plan for them to come back. It is also about prevention. We have far too much mental illness among young people and children. There it wants much more pre-emptive work, for example in the field of pupil health. We invest considerably more in student health in order for children and young people to get help at a much earlier stage.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-360	Mr President, I would like to Before this Question Time began, we discussed civil defence and emergency preparedness in this House. We will continue to do so. I was going to raise an issue that has not been touched on but has been up before. In September 2015, the then Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Ann Linde, for the first time received information about what Säpo described as a major and serious supervisory matter. It was about the Transport Agency. It took six months for Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman to get in-depth information about this. And it took a year and four months for the Prime Minister to get information for the first time. It is, of course, absolutely appalling. Last summer Stefan Löfven promised that there would be a careful analysis of the information channels at the Government Office, and as soon as it was finished we would know more about it. I have not seen anything about this and would like to know what conclusion the Prime Minister himself has drawn, for his part, from the promised scrutiny and how he has ensured that information relating to national security is not withheld from the Prime Minister.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-364	Mr President, I would like to I assume that Beatrice Ask also knows that there is a KU review in this case. Today, two former ministers are being questioned, and I will be there myself on 27 April. The Government Office has submitted solid documentation to the Constitutional Committee, which they examine and have normally requested. That I should now stand here and account for the time in this is a bit strange. I do not regard it as a general policy issue. However, I can say this, as I have said all along: it is clear that what happened at the Swedish Transport Agency, where a head of authority decided to deliberately break the law, is serious. I have also said that I would have liked to have seen that I had received the information earlier. I stand by that. In addition, Beatrice Ask will also have to wait for my answers to the Constitutional Committee when I go there. We have also given our views on how information can be improved.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-370	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! We certainly remember all the reports from 2010 about the unmanned dementia departments in Piteå in SVT's Mission review. It's been eight years since then. Now, according to IVO, there is still far too little staffing on many retirement homes around the country. Many dementia sufferers are still locked up at night, which is, of course, indecent. I know the government has contributed resources, which is a good thing. But there is much evidence that it will not be enough, but more needs to be done. Among other things, we need more stringent legislation, as we have proposed several times. It needs to be made clear that retirement homes should be manned 24 hours a day. There should not only be, as the regulations say today, access to staff.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-374	Mr President, I would like to Now I can be completely honest and say that I will have to be a little bit of an answer when it comes to whether we have precisely proposed legislative changes. But there has been an investigation, and we will tighten the requirements for there to be the right staffing. That, of course, is the starting point. There must be manning and the possibility of help. And it is the responsibility of the respective principals to ensure that this is the case. In terms of resources, it makes it possible, as is also pointed out here. We will also have to make much more of that. That is why it is the next parliamentary term for prosperity for real. Now we have worked Sweden into a huge power position economically. And then the money should be used so that people have real access to welfare, of course also the elderly and dementia sufferers. That is the priority and nothing else. And we're gonna keep doing that.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-377	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Israel's occupation of Palestine has been going on for more than 50 years, creating one of the world's most tough conflicts. The abuse of the Palestinian people continues unabated. Gaza is rightly referred to as the world's largest outdoor prison with more than 1.8 million inhabitants, half of whom are children. On 30 March, the biggest Palestinian protest began in several years. Tens of thousands of participants, including children and young people, gathered to use their human right: to make their voice heard. A few threw stones and burned car tires. Israel responded with tanks and snipers. To date, some 20 people have been killed and at least 1,400 injured. What has happened in recent weeks shows once again that Israel is in no way going to comply with international law. So the world must act in some other way than it has done so far.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-381	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Yasmine Posio Nilsson. This government has recognised Palestine precisely to try to change the playing field. For that we have received a great deal of criticism in this House. I think it was absolutely necessary. For if there is something we must do, it is to ensure that these young people see some kind of hope. In order to contribute to the two-state solution that we still stand up for and for which the community and the European Union stand up, we have recognised Palestine. In addition, we believe that it is the responsibility of both parties to contribute to the solution. The EU and other actors must also contribute. As you point out, it is an incredibly old conflict. And it seems to be getting more and more difficult. In fact, it applies to almost the entire Middle East area, from today's perspective. We need to continue to stand up for the two-state solution. It represents commitments for both Palestine and Israel.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-386	Mr President, I would like to A master student in Uppsala has been refused her application for a residence permit and is at risk of being expelled before she has graduated. This is not the first time this has happened. There have been quite a few good students in recent years. The reason for the expulsions is often purely technical. It's a pattern that shows a system failure. It is a disgrace for Sweden that our rules lead to the expulsion of diligent students. I am not asking the Prime Minister to comment on an individual case, but the government is responsible for the regulations. Today's rules repeatedly have unreasonable consequences. Uppsala and Sweden need more international students, not fewer. We will be a knowledge nation, and our message to students who come here will be a bit like Uppsala's own slogan: Welcome here, welcome home! Why does the Prime Minister accept that we are exhibiting diligent students?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-391	Mr President, I would like to I mean that you should be able to stay and make a good contribution to our society. I do not know the rules in detail, but this is, of course, our ambition. That would be stupid otherwise, but I can't comment on the specific case. There are others who have suffered an expulsion because there have been shortcomings in the conditions of employment. Now we have improved the possibilities to stay if you correct the errors. We're going to move on with that. Even if you make a correction after you have received a comment, you should have the opportunity to stay. There should be similar opportunities in this area too, so that people can make a good contribution to Swedish society. We need that.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-394	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister often talks about the importance of order in a variety of areas: in the labour market, in the economy, in migration policy, in school, on our roads and not least on our railways so that trains go on time. After all, the government has invested several and necessary billions in railway maintenance over the last three years. More and heavier trains in denser traffic wear harder on tracks, switches and overhead lines. Punctuality is now on average 91%. For the next twelve years, the government has earmarked an additional 40 billion to improve maintenance so that punctuality will increase even more. Are there any other measures that the Prime Minister considers relevant in order to make railway maintenance more efficient? Or is more tax billions the only solution?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-398	Mr President, I would like to It is good that more and more people want to travel climate smart. We can see that train travel is increasing steadily, and of course we will see to it that we stimulate as best we can. If that's going to happen, the trains have to come and go on time. Over time, there has been a slight reduction in these disturbances and in train delays, but much more needs to be done. Some of the problems lie around the tracks. Other problems may be wagons that are not really up-to-date. The Finnish Transport Agency has been tasked with ensuring that maintenance is reviewed and what can be done together with other actors. It is in order for the whole to be strong and for the trains to come and go on time. At the very least, information to passengers in the event of delays must be considerably improved.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-402	Mr President, I would like to In the parliamentary work a month ago I had with me the trainee Hugo Lundström, who has come here especially today and is sitting in the gallery. Hugo attends the eighth year at Maria Elementar here in Stockholm. He followed the foreign policy debate which was then a month ago and bounced to, which led him to ask the Prime Minister the following question. Prime Minister! Since the days of the Cold War, NATO has been a defence alliance in which each Member State has promised each other a guarantee of each other's support if it is attacked by foreign power. That is how NATO is still designed. The fact that Sweden would also benefit from such a guarantee can only be positive. But the government has a very negative attitude towards a Swedish NATO membership. What's the problem?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-405	Mr President, I would like to The government does not have a negative attitude towards NATO. We have a very good cooperation. We have an unaligned policy that is the one that benefits Sweden best. The first is, what is the best thing for our country? Yes, it is the freedom of alliance, which we also share with Finland. The second is: we make sure to increase our own defence capabilities. That is why we are adding so much money to the defence, and there is a broad consensus across the block. That's good. Thirdly, cooperation with NATO is extremely important. I have spoken to the Secretary-General of NATO, the United States and other leaders in NATO countries and they see and acknowledge the cooperation that we have with NATO. It is important for us to stick to the freedom of alliance. Changing that order now would create further uncertainty in our neighbourhood. That would not be good for Sweden.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-410	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! I have two daughters, Liv and Iris, four and two years respectively. They have given me a whole new meaning in my political commitment. I want them and all the other children in Sweden to have an even better life than I and my generation had when we grew up. Testimonies during the hashtag # metoo told about a Sweden that has a long way to go when it comes to how it is for girls, girls and women in Sweden to grow up free from sexual abuse and abuse. It is now important that the policy should move from words to action. So I wonder: What does the government intend to do to make Sweden an even more equal and equal country to live in?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-413	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question! I'm one of many people who saw the power of the metoo. Now we have an momentum to really do something in the field of gender equality. During this term of office, we have removed the custody allowance, which contributed to women staying at home and not entering the labour market to the same extent. We have invested in preschool and introduced another month in parental insurance so that each of the parents can ensure that there are equal conditions in the child's upbringing. We have increased child support and child support. Of course, we need to do more. That is why we are now proposing to improve sex and cohabitation education at school. We have also introduced stronger sexual crime legislation. Sexual acts should be based on freedom and nothing else. Here we need to do more to ensure that women and men have the same rights, receive an equal share of the resources and have equal representation.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-418	Mr President, I would like to More than 12 000 people are wanted in Sweden because they lack asylum reasons and are therefore to be expelled. The terrorist attack in Stockholm on 7 April last year is a strong proof of the importance of deportation. At the same time, there has been a drastic reduction in the number of internal checks carried out by the border police. Between 2012 and 2017, the number of controls has almost halved, and this trend appears to continue in 2018. The border police also express concern that the regulation restricts and complicates the work of internal foreign control. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore this: is the Prime Minister prepared to give the border police all the necessary tools to be able to carry out more and more effective internal checks on aliens?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-422	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, let's see the whole picture. Yes, we have a challenge with people who are here and who do not have a residence permit. At the same time, 47 000 have so far left the country. I'm guessing we'll end up at about 60,000 by the time this year counts. Of all those who come here, they don't all stay here. So there's another picture. But there is the challenge, and that is why we have given the police increased opportunities to carry out workplace inspections. Previously, the police had to have a crime suspicion in order to enter a workplace. Now it is enough to suspect that something is going on that should not happen. It is clear that it shortens the time enormously, and it also makes it possible to take on much more controls, which is also confirmed when I have spoken to the border police. In addition, there is more opportunity to handle ID documents.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-424	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the law for unaccompanied minors. Regardless of the level of reception of refugees, it is extremely important that the legislation is well thought out and prepared. The former law of the unaccompanied was anything but that. It was brought forward with the result that a loophole in the law could be used to systematically avoid expulsion, even if they did not even intend to study in Sweden. The other day, 60 people were to be rejected to Afghanistan, but 43 fell from. In practice, it is almost voluntary today for very many people to return home or not – this is a direct consequence of government legislation. As if this were not enough, the government has now announced a new law, which has met with even stronger criticism from not least the Law Council. As I said, whether one advocates a generous or rigorous policy, the legislation must be correct. Why, Stefan Löfven, does the government have important legislation?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-427	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is not correct that it would be voluntary to return. It is simply a false picture. I see the honourable Member shaking his head, but that's the way it is. What is happening now is that we are preparing this bill. We have had a referral to the Law Council, which has now spoken. We are now preparing this, and then we will see what it will be. But it is clear that the criticism that the Law Council has left out is, of course, part of the preparation. We will see how we can make this law as good as possible if it is to be presented at all. As I said, the law is being prepared, and we will simply have to come back when we are done with it.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-431	Mr President, I would like to Throughout his term of office, the Prime Minister has clearly declared that the whole country should live. This applies from notifications in the Government Declaration to getting governments and state ministers out and going so much and visiting virtually all municipalities throughout the country. The government has announced many new initiatives such as broadband, food strategy, infrastructure and education. The government has also taken the initiative to locate authorities throughout the country. Most recently, the government presented the many initiatives of the Rural Bill. However, the reception has not only been positive, but parts of the bourgeois opposition but also the councillors of different political colours have called the government's initiative a mockery. What does the Prime Minister want to say to those who do not really believe that the government's rural investment is real and applies to the whole country?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-434	Mr President, I would like to To the opposition which says that this is a mockery, I would say that they were not even close to these efforts. That's the first answer. At that time all government development took place here in Stockholm, in the capital. Rural areas and the rest of Sweden were drained on this type of work. Now we have made decisions that actually mean a total of about 2 000 jobs being carried out around the country. We also have permanent operating aid for the country merchants. It is extremely important that such a trade is close to you. It allows you to stay and buy what you need. We've got the green industry going. It is about forestry and agriculture and investment in rural roads. Not least, we have created order and order in hunting policy, as has been called for. A great deal has been done, and more will have to be done. We are determined that the whole of Sweden should count, and that is important for the country's development.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-437	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that we Moderates support all our reservations and, of course, the alliance-wide reservations, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 1 on the evaluation and review of society's crisis preparedness. In this report, we are dealing with 128 requests, ranging from emergency workers on standby to the role of industry in total defence. It is about electricity supply, shelter, food, drinking water and Nordic cooperation. The amount of questions and topics reflects both commitment and understanding of the whole and the complexity of our society. Civil defence and crisis preparedness are about most things that affect our everyday lives and how we can make society work in different ways during stress, crisis and extreme war. As a result of the defence decisions of 1999, 2001 and 2004, planning for increased preparedness and war in Sweden was essentially discontinued. Therefore, systematic planning and other preparations for increased preparedness have not been in place in Sweden for a long time. Large parts of the former comprehensive total defense have been dismantled. This applies not least to the civilian side, where instead the focus has been on developing preparedness for peacetime crises and social disruptions, but on a completely different level. However, a new security policy situation makes us agree today on the need to resume work for a strong total defence. That is, of course, easier said than done. Society has undergone great changes since we last conducted a planning for total defence. Globalisation means that infrastructure and supply flows of goods, services and other things have been linked across national borders in a completely different way than ever before. In society, different sectors are very interdependent. Most areas depend on access to electricity, IT, electronic communications, transport, fuel, supplies, financial services and more. Digitization has meant significant changes in Swedish society, many of course for the better. Today it permeates our whole everyday life. The Internet has gone from being an important infrastructure to becoming infrastructure for almost everything else. Electronic communications systems are not designed to withstand pressures in the event of war or danger of war. They may also be subjected to attacks and manipulation by unfriendly actors. So the vulnerability of this is very great. Today, socially important activities that were previously carried out in the public domain are largely carried out by many private operators. I can go further and describe the changes that have taken place, but this means that the work on civilian preparedness is becoming more difficult. The defence committee has, of course, an important task in this. In December, the preparatory work presented a first interim report, Resistance – the focus of total defence and the design of civil defence in 2021-2025, with a series of concrete proposals. On these proposals, the parties are essentially in agreement. It is exciting when there are 60 – 70 political proposals, and all parties think that this is necessary and that we need to do this. It is therefore regrettable to have to read how the majority of the committees in question now refrain from taking a position on the substance of various speeches by Members of Parliament. It is a matter of wording such as not wanting to anticipate the final report of the Defence Committee or the government's preparation of the proposed measures. Let me just remind you that this final report, which is to deal with military issues in particular, is scheduled for spring 2019. It should then be considered and prepared. This means that we will have to wait a very long time for action if we are to have such a policy. One has to ask why we should wait for more than two years on earth to decide on things that we consider necessary and on which we fully agree. In addition, many of these proposals are about producing the data, the facts and the things needed to make the very concrete and practical decisions. You don't have to prepare much, it's about starting processes. In a lot of municipalities and regions, work has also started, because the government has made a number of decisions in recent years. Many authorities now come back with questions where they want answers, guidelines and clearer information about what is going to happen. If we are to wait over two years to give answers, it is clear that there is a great risk that many people will lose their appetite and that others will not get started with something that is absolutely necessary. Mr President, I would like to Many of the efforts required for civilian preparedness are not just about increased preparedness and preparedness in the event of war, but means that we will have a stronger, more stable and more secure society. Electricity disturbances, stops in the subway, water supply problems and so on are costly and troubling even in everyday life, in peacetime. Measures that prevent or speed up these things are very good. Many of the measures take time. I think there is reason to act now. It can be very expensive if you shoot everything in front of you. Mr President, I would like to We are subjected to various pressures on a regular basis. In May, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency will send out important information to all Swedish households. One will receive a home that says what to do and thinks about in one's own home and household in the event of various pressures. I think it will be very welcome, because there is a commitment among the citizens. But, of course, many will be both surprised and disappointed when they discover that the parliamentary majority and the government are not dealing with what is their task. It asks what the government is doing to speed this up and how the government is thinking here. The agency expects ordinary people to get started and take greater responsibility for their own security and security, while the government does not deliver. I wonder what you will answer in the election campaign, and above all after the brochure has come out, when you will explain to people why we should wait for over two years with something that we really agree on. It is not only what you say that counts, but also what you actually do.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-454	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's what you do that counts. Of course, it takes time to build up what has been destroyed. Before we entered Parliament and throughout the last parliamentary term, we were alone in talking about civil defence. Just over two years ago, we were the only party to have spent EUR 4 billion in its budget on civil defence for the coming period. Then I stood here and said, "Why don't you bet a penny on civil defense?" The Swedish Defence Committee now has a total of just over 4 billion. It feels great that we now agree that we need to build a strong civil defence. It'll take a really long time. I shall also mention this with NATO, which does not really belong here. I will mention it so that there is no doubt. I have been asked about this already today. The Swedish democrats clearly say no to NATO accession. This is clear. If you want to discuss this, we are not doing it here and now. But let it be perfectly clear. Good. Let's talk about civil defense. For years now, we have been proposing the creation of a civil defence authority. When I talk about this, I sometimes think that MSB in many parts could take that role. This is not a matter of principle for us, but the important thing is what to do and that there should be competence. And there's a lot of expertise on MSB. So it is not in stone that we have to close one authority and build another, but we have to find an authority whose tasks correspond to a civil defence authority. You have heard me talk about coordination many times. The more I read about this, the more I notice that the focus is being shifted from collaboration to coordination. The only way to make this work is to coordinate the activities. The activities will be coordinated with the county administrative boards. The county administrative boards coordinate with the municipalities. I have been around in some municipalities and found that you have no plans at all. The activities in the municipalities must also work in increased preparedness. Ask your own municipalities: Where are your plans? Have you started that work? Some have done so and also received money from the county administrative boards, but some have not received it. This must also be coordinated and monitored more closely. At least it's been pushed. Mr President, I would like to I think you should do what you did in the past, when you on the county boards had officers – it was called the union of services – who participated in the planning for increased preparedness and other events. It was about coordinating activities between the military units and the civilian. I think we should get back to this. Maybe it'll come a little later. We've been proposing it all these years. For civil defence to work, we also need to train NGOs and provide them with support. They are extremely important. In our proposal, they have their own budget for it. In connection with the fact that we are now investing in civil defence, I also think that we should increase the number of conscripts. We want a number of more brigades. We want to reach a military duty volume of approximately 20 000, but it takes time. We have to build regiments. As someone has written in a motion here, you have to build up the connection functions. The old regiment Ing 1 in Almnäs, which was one of Europe's best places for engineering training, is gone. But there are many places left. A regiment is now being built on Gotland. We'll have to build more. There will also be a return from the conscripts. Some are meant to go to the rescue schools, in which we must revive. Then we'll have an increased number of fire soldiers. If we go 25 or 30 years back, there were lots of paramedics who were involved in exercises and NGOs. They were called in to war unit exercises. We re-introduce and activate civilian duty. These are things you need to do now. With this, it is possible to operate in a completely different way. Mr President, I would like to You also have to look at the total defense. We say we should have a living countryside. Why? Well, we're going to increase our food supply. The degree of self-sufficiency should be increased. That's where all the systems are connected. Then there must be schools in the countryside, shops and so on. It is needed to get a living countryside that then the total defense has the joy of. Let me take my own municipality as an example. How do you procure food in the schools there? It comes in trucks from Denmark because you can then get pork fillet at half price. Then you ask: How do you write the specifications? How do you weigh it? Set the price to 5 percent! Then you will buy locally grown food instead. It will be more expensive for the municipality – it will be 3 – 5 million more expensive in a budget of 700 million. Such instruments must be learned to use if you are prepared to take the extra cost. It's all connected to the total defense model. It is gratifying that when you start discussing increasing civil defence and defence, you now start on a whole new page. The defense committee, with its excellent chairman, concluded that 90 - 95% of the old plans can be used. There are old plans that are great, with K-companies and everything. We have to build layers, too. Oil and food emergency stocks must be rebuilt. It's also in our plan, and I know you have it in you too. How are we gonna do that? It could be Konsum, Ica or other stores that expand a bit and have a warehouse there. There are many different models to do this, but it has to be done. I agree with the previous speaker that it is time to get things moving, although I do not agree with everything she said. As I said, business has an important part to play in this. We also want the Coast Guard to go in and become part of the Navy. I think it makes it much easier for them to have access to that organisation and the opportunity to work in a different way. We also believe that the emergency services are an important part of the operation. This is important for civilian preparedness, and we have written specific programmes about it. I know many people think that the great threat comes from Russia. I believe that the greatest threat to our way of life and our freedom in Sweden is probably within Sweden's borders. It's one thing you can't ignore. It is about the so-called exclusion areas, which the police have specifically pointed out. Does it have any connection whatsoever to what we are talking about now? At least there are not jacketed as part of civil defence and in emergency preparedness. I think we will have to take this into account in particular, but it is a special debate. Mr President, I would like to We support reservation no. 3.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-475	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7. The deteriorating security situation requires that we take the issues of total defence and preparedness very seriously. We at the Defense Committee submitted our report in December. That is where we set out many positions and observations. It is not least linked to how we assess the unpredictability of security policy developments. It is fast, and we need to have a wide-ranging approach in order to find as good a whole as possible. Sweden should be able to be defended in all the climate and weather conditions that exist in our country. We usually repeat that when it comes to the development of our defence capabilities. It's also about total defense. All parts of Sweden should be able to have a robustness and an ability to face crises during higher preparedness and at worst war. All stages of the supply chain must be included and taken into account when developing capacity. The fact that there is cooperation that works in practice is crucial. There are agreements between public and private actors and a broader and deeper understanding of these issues across society. Crisis preparedness and total defence depend entirely on civil society and the commitment that exists in the communities among volunteers in the population. We want to see a clearer role for volunteers in the event of crisis or war. It is important that volunteers get even more involved in planning, as early as possible. It is also about involving the local perspective around our country. There is an important role for civil protection. It is about part-time corps and other corps that have surface coverage but also preparedness. If the ability goes down in everyday life, it also affects total defence ability. Here there are challenges in terms of recruitment, resources and preparedness. People in rural and sparsely populated areas of our country must have access to the security and security of civil protection. We must also make it easier to recruit civil protection personnel in both the short and long term. Mr President, I would like to 70% of the country's municipalities currently lack systematic work in relation to information security. We see that cyber threats and information impact can be very extensive. Measures are needed to strengthen IT management, cyber security and cyber security in general. Knowledge may well increase. Engagement can certainly be strengthened. This also applies to the understanding of how this affects our society as a whole and in the details. Those who own and are responsible for socially important activities have a huge responsibility to ensure that infrastructure and other parts meet the requirements that need to be set. Then the state has a very important responsibility to express what expectations should apply in total defence planning in order for civil defence to develop. In the Swedish Defence Committee's report, we have made many suggestions, thoughts, ideas and reflections on what we need to do in Sweden in the coming years. Not least, we need to see what the remaining years of the current defence-oriented period mean for Swedish security. How can we speed this up and initiate various concrete measures as early as possible? There we bear a shared responsibility. However, the government bears a great deal of responsibility when it comes to taking advantage of, managing and treating the proposed measures in the best possible way. We see that the level today is extremely low. After many years of non-focus and non-engagement in the overall defence perspective, there are challenges. These are large-scale solutions, centralised solutions and vulnerabilities in terms of electricity supply, heat supply, electronics, telephony and life-supporting medicines. We import a great many inputs. One can look at the area by area and see how society has changed in parallel during these years. We can see how the structure of care, places of care and hospitals is today compared to 25 years ago. Today there are often no requirements for functionality in socially important operations and critical infrastructure. This must be defined. Yes, we assume a low level, but we have the opportunity to do a lot together. We will create a modern total defence and be able to unite many different interests along the way. We're reassigning the power supply. We're gonna work on the robustness. Then, when it comes to the various plans that are being worked on in society, one must think together from a total defence perspective. The best way is to build security but also to create both jobs and solutions that meet the challenges of the future. I am thinking, for example, of renewable energy. We have a lot of water, wind and sun and opportunities to find small-scale solutions that provide robustness when the large-scale ones are tested in the event of a crisis. Commitment and leadership will be crucial, but it is also important that the whole country has a level of knowledge corresponding to the threat. It is about knowledge of what needs to be done and why it needs to be done. That insight varies right now, and leadership varies right now. There must be increased pressure and focus here, because it is not possible to be naive and to think naively when the development of security policy is going in the wrong direction. Now we need to have a focus and concrete planning that achieves results in the near future. The biggest question is about people's willingness to defend themselves and about the anchoring of these issues in the countryside. It's based on total defense planning. We in the Defence Committee estimate that this could be about 4.2 billion at the end of the next period. It could be more-- it probably does. But it is also important that we ensure that there are resources along the way, so that the necessary steps can be taken on an ongoing basis. I have met, and still do, government managers who explicitly say that the overall defence perspective is not relevant in their parts of the business. It is about air traffic control and doing so remotely. I believe that these issues will be dealt with differently when there is an in-depth understanding and when the overall defence perspective has an impact. Mr President, I would like to One of the important issues is how food production and food safety develop in our country. From the Center Party we see it as a very important security issue – it's about national security – that we can increase production to reduce dependence on the outside world and that, not least in a longer perspective, we can help other countries when they don't have the food they need. We also see that water issues are extremely important. If we increase the production of food, we can also take advantage of the possibilities of our water when it comes to consumption, but also about the use of electricity – this to reduce vulnerability and dependence on the outside world. Security and food policy really belong together. Antagonististic forces could influence our everyday lives with quite simple means. We must take this seriously. The involvement in the countryside is very important. The knowledge, resources and leadership that are there will help us to succeed in the long run. We need to invite, and we also need to make sure that we do so together. The dialogue between the public and the private as well as the fact that we can jointly find targets will be extremely important. There are many different points in this work that we will come back to, but I believe that the most important thing is what commitment we show and how we achieve a holistic approach that truly permeates all our different policies. Then the robustness will come step by step, and we will find the solutions along the way. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to reiterate my request and thank you for the floor.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-495	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Committee on Defence's report on Civil defence and emergency preparedness. The report contains a number of issues in which work is under way through the Committee on Defence, which we should not overlook. The Left Party broadly welcomes the First Interim Report of the Defence Committee Resistance. It presents a series of important proposals on how to strengthen civil defence in a number of areas. This means, among other things, clearer accountability and management conditions at all levels, enhanced population protection, improved healthcare, improved information and cyber security, and increased preparedness in food and energy supply. These are necessary measures to strengthen our preparedness in the event of a crisis or in the worst case of war. We see that civil defence plays an important role in strengthening the work of building a secure and robust society that can meet the challenges our society can face, such as various forms of natural disasters, pandemics, cyber attacks, etc., but also in defending our country's independence and freedom of alliance. This is something we see as crucial in conflict prevention. The Committee on Defence, however, chooses to make three declarations that have been endorsed by a united committee. It is important that the government should ensure that increased administrative appropriations for the county boards' emergency preparedness go to the intended activities, which I think should be completely self-evident. The second announcement is that the government should review the county boards' emergency preparedness regarding training and preparedness requirements in accordance with MSB's recommendations. The third and final announcement is that the committee wants to speed up work on developing a developed and secure communication solution for public order, safety, health and defence actors. The system that exists today is not enough and does not meet the needs of today's modern society. Mr President, I would like to I will now turn to my reservation on fireworks. Fireworks can be a great joy to many people in connection with New Year's celebrations, but they can also cause major problems for people, animals and the environment. However, we do not want to go so far as to completely ban fireworks, but the Left Party believes that it is clear that there is a need for both better supervision and regulation of the use of fireworks. Some of the negative consequences that fireworks can bring are that the high bangs can be perceived as very frightening for both humans and animals. We know that fireworks cause a great deal of suffering for many animals. Especially dogs and horses can be extremely stressed by the bangs. When it is not possible to predict when the shooting will take place, it is of course particularly difficult to protect yourself and take precautions in connection with the celebration, such as travelling away or temporarily moving animals. For example, people with dementia and people, especially children, who have fled from war situations and in many cases suffer from PTSD, fireworks can cause great concern and great discomfort. Many others, too, are disturbed by fireworks and experience discomfort when fired near homes. In some municipalities there are local regulations on bans, including close proximity to sensitive buildings, hospitals, retirement homes and more. These are good measures that could become mandatory for the whole country. Mr President, I would like to We also know that people are seriously injured and even dying because of fireworks. According to the police and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, about 100 people are so seriously injured every year by fireworks that they need to go to an emergency room. Another problem is all the fires caused by fireworks. According to the police and MSB, the number of interventions for New Year's fires doubles compared to other days during Christmas and New Year's holidays. Fireworks account for a large proportion of this increase. The chemicals involved are also a burden on the environment. It is also a question of spreading toxic substances in nature. Mr President, I would like to There are therefore many reasons for better regulating the use of fireworks: environmental, personal, animal welfare and so on. Among other things, it is a question of limiting use to certain designated places and times and regulating who can sell and buy fireworks and when this should be allowed to happen. Today there are shortcomings in terms of both supervision and enforcement. Therefore, the government should come back with proposals to improve the supervision and enforcement of the use of fireworks. Stricter legislation on the use of fireworks is long awaited by many and would be a great relief for both vulnerable people and animals around the country. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 45.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-510	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation 44. Today we are discussing civil defence, and we are doing so in a very special situation. We have an increasingly tough security policy situation. I would just like to remind you of the war that began in connection with Russia taking Crimea in 2014. At the moment, as we speak in this House, there is still a war going on in Europe, in Eastern Ukraine. It is going on all the time, and there are also recurring impact operations against our friends in the Baltic countries. We see a Russia that is making a strong rearmament. The defense committee came before Christmas with the report Resistance – I hold this in my hand – which is about precisely the direction of the total defense. There we noted, among other things, that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. There were some discussions on this, but so it is and there were seven parties agreed. When you agree on this, you cannot sit with your arms crossed, but you must have a plan for how we, both military and civil, can strengthen our defence so that we have a strong total defence. A defense is not stronger than the weakest link. We started with civil defence, which we are discussing today, and in the report we put forward a wide range of important proposals. It was a matter of reinstating security officers, unfortunately only in war. The Christian Democrats wanted this to apply in peacetime as well. We wanted to strengthen health care preparedness, because we know that today it is probably difficult as it is. There are no margins if you need to take care of injured people in times of crisis or war. We also reviewed the financial and energy component. We are very vulnerable to energy, and I can remind the House of Ukraine, as I mentioned before. It is a country that has had energy supplies for parts of the population two years in a row for one day in December. Turns out it was Russia that subjected them to cyber-attacks. This can also be done to Sweden. We also looked at food security. In short, we made a lot of important proposals also in relation to cyber defence. Unfortunately, very little of this has become a workshop, as several of those who have spoken before me have pointed out. The government has picked up very few of our proposals, and that is not good. There's a danger in this. Given the tough security policy situation, we cannot think that we have all the time. We need to strengthen civilian defence. I do not think it is a secret to anyone, Mr President, that civil defence has been on the foot for 20 to 25 years. Civil defence must be recreated and developed, and we cannot wait. It is therefore regrettable that concrete proposals have not been made – nor in the report. I would particularly like to highlight the issue of cyber defence. The FRA has shown that there are 10,000 cyber attacks per month of foreign power. They can knock out critical social structures. It is also a cheap way for individual groups and countries to bring us down. They can be used by both states and individual groups, and they are going on today. There are several examples: Cloud Hopper and blackmail attacks. In Uppsala, operations have not been performed because the computers are locked. There are other examples that even government companies pay ransoms, use tax money, to unload their computers. Sweden signs out in a negative way. There are six different authorities that take part in the responsibility, and it is not rocket science to say that if six authorities have the responsibility, the issue goes between the chairs. This has been demonstrated by the Swedish National Audit Office, among other things. What we Christian Democrats have proposed time and again, as the report also shows, is that the cyber defence should be developed. We have said this in common in the Defence Committee. We would also like an authority to be given the main responsibility. The military part needs to be managed separately, but civil society needs an authority that has the primary responsibility. We know that the various states in Germany are careful not to move anything up, but there is a cybersecurity authority. Mr President, I would like to There have been several attacks, but I believe that within a not too long time we will face even greater cyber attacks. In Stockholm it may be the infrastructure, such as the subway, or that payments can stand still for 24 hours or other types of major attacks. Then we need to do something. It has been a fragmented way of dealing with the issue, and it has not been good. Cyber suppliers are faced with demands from a wide range of authorities, and they are allowed to put a lot of energy into these requirements, but they are putting some energy into really strengthening protection. This is an important proposal and is something on which I hope we can reach political agreement. Cyber attacks can range from peace to the worst war, and they are serious. Then it is not good enough with six different authorities who share the responsibility. In view of the NIS Directive, seven more authorities will be given partial responsibility in the spring. It doesn't make any sense. Mr President, I would like to One key point in my speech is to show that, in order for Sweden to have a better civil defence, cyber security is of the utmost importance.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-524	Mr President, I would like to It is a 150-page diger lunta on which we have a position today, the motion report Civil Defense and Crisis Preparedness. Crisis preparedness and, not least, civil defence affect many sectors of society, which is also reflected in the report dealing with some sixty motions. It addresses issues such as population protection, food security, civil protection, the importance of NGOs, safe communication routes, etc. The bonuses also reflect, I dare say, the growing interest and commitment that we see in civil defence here in Parliament and in society at large. What exactly is the civil defense? 20 to 30 years ago, that question had seemed a little strange and unnecessary, but today the situation is different. I think that many of my generation and younger generations may have their own experience of how it could look in the phone book with an instruction on how to do when the air alert went or whether there was an increased alert. But the fact is that many Swedes today have limited personal experience of civil defence as it was once organized. In short, it can be said that the task of the civil defence is to protect the population, secure the most important functions of society and support the Armed Forces. In order for the military defence to carry out its tasks, a functioning civil defence is required. Where are we today? With the 2016 Defence Decision, the work on total defence planning was reactivated after having been down for a long time. This happened just in a period of time when society was undergoing major changes, where the increasing digitalisation and globalisation are the two most visible trends. The threat scale has also widened during this time, partly as a result of the above-mentioned changes. Not only do we need to regain the abilities we once had today, but we must also take up the many and often technologically complex dependencies of modern society in the work ahead of us. Some questions, such as those in the supply area, are timeless in the sense that they always respond to certain basic eternal needs that we humans have; clean water, food and so on. In other areas, such as information technology, we are faced with some new challenges. It is not difficult to find areas of civil defence that can be developed. There is great potential for improvement, Mr President. One can of course feel a frustration that what was once a sign, a nobility mark, for Swedish defence policy, the concept of total defence, was so quickly and so hard dismantled. Or you look forward and try to do something about it here and now. That's what the S-led government does. In recent years, a number of processes have been initiated to restart civil defence and its interaction with military defence. The basic vision has been developed, and the monitoring authorities have been tasked with starting their planning. The government has set up and announced a number of investigations, including to strengthen total defence, strengthen the national alert service, establish a new authority for psychological defence, clarify civil defence management structures and create more effective municipal civil protection. The Government also sees the need to develop regulations for war-important companies and operations and to continue to review population protection based on MSB's inventory of shelters. Several authorities have begun work on the deployment of personnel, and training activities are carried out against tasks of increased preparedness and war. For this year and the next two years, SEK 1.3 billion will be added in order to increase the capability of civil defence. These resources are the result of the agreement reached last year between the government parties, the Moderates and the Center Party. These funds are provided to municipalities, county councils, county boards, other monitoring authorities and voluntary defence organisations. When we then look forward to the work carried out within the Defence Committee, we see that there is a clear consensus that the work that has now begun gradually needs to be changed over the coming period of defence. So, of course, things happen in the area of Civil Defense and Emergency Preparedness. In view of the short timescales involved, it can be said that a great deal is happening. With civil defence, we are also approaching the individual and his role and responsibility in the event of a crisis or increased preparedness. Although we do not have an explicit task in total defence, we all have a responsibility to be able to provide for our own basic needs. In order to inculcate this with the responsibility of the individual, the government last year commissioned MSB to produce an information booklet that focuses on how people can prepare to be able to look at their basic needs when important functions in society do not function as usual. Therefore, at the end of May/June, an updated version of the classic, the brochure About the Crisis or the War will be sent out to almost 5 million Swedish households. Mr President, I have a few comments on the three announcements in the report. Two of these affect the county administrative boards in different ways. The committee wants to ensure that the resources given to the county administrative boards and their work on civil defence go to precisely what they are intended for. The training and contingency planning activities of county administrative boards should also be reviewed. Basically, of course, there must be confidence that authorities use their resources on the basis of the assignments they have been assigned. The county administrative boards also have to report back on how they use their funds. In any case, without prejudging these accounts, my view is that we are now changing up on a broad front. I myself have visited county boards that recruit administrators who plan practice activities and who, thanks to the resource supplements, can work with a wider range in their operations. This is particularly valuable when it comes to our smaller county boards. When it comes to the announcement of the importance of getting a more modern communication solution for blue light authorities and other actors, the government shares the view that this is an important issue. That is why Gunnar Holmgren was commissioned to investigate this. However, one can bear in mind that it is a large, technically demanding project with many stakeholders involved. To conclude, Mr President, civil defence is part of our collective defence efforts. A well-developed civil defence is in itself war retention and helps to strengthen the defence will in our country. We have a long journey ahead of us, but the direction is clear.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-545	Madam President, I would like We shall now continue the discussion on civil defence and the state of emergency. I would first like to give a brief reflection on some of what has been said earlier on the subject in this House. I noted that Roger Richtoff from the Swedish Democrats raised the question of whether there is not a greater threat to Swedish society than Russia and that it may come from within. It was not quite clear what was meant, and I think that the Swedish Democrats should be quite clear about what they mean in that case. Nor was it clear how this threat, which seemed to be some form of alienation, is a defence issue. I would like to remind Roger Richtoff that he is responsible for responding on behalf of the Swedish Democrats to how he views these questions, now that both his colleagues in the committee have left the Chamber. So it will be Richtoff who is guilty of the answer when he asks if there is any connection. Back to the report: Civil defence and emergency preparedness have made a long journey, from being one of the world's best and most thorough during the Cold War to large parts being phased out in the '00s. Now it will be rebuilt. Civil defence ultimately aims to support the Armed Forces in war but also has many practical values in a number of other crisis situations. Today, Sweden's civil defence capabilities need to be strengthened for several reasons. Firstly, we need better ability to both prevent and manage a range of challenges and security threats, ranging from accidents and natural disasters to cyber attacks and wars. The complex dependencies that currently exist between different parts of society and between different countries contribute to increased vulnerability. Secondly, the threat picture is now more complex and diffuse and does not allow for an equally clear distinction between peace and war. This will also change the demands on civil defence and emergency preparedness. We have witnessed on several occasions recently how several countries in Europe, like the United States, have been subjected to influence operations, information warfare and terrorist threats, and now that we are entering an election year, it is of course particularly important for us to take this into account too. In addition to the deteriorating security and crisis preparedness situation in Europe, it is essential that society as a whole has an inherent robustness, perseverance and resilience to deal with complex events. Thirdly, Sweden's civil defence has been weakened for a long time. For a long period of time, almost no civil defence activities or planning were carried out, as was evident, for example, in connection with the fire in Västmanland in 2014. There is a gap in the adaptation of civil defence linked both to the development of the Armed Forces and to the development of society in general. From the Second World War to the end of the 1990s, contingency planning was carried out for war and war danger in the total defense. Civil defence consisted of various elements, such as economic defence, psychological defence and civil defence, and there were authorities with clear coordination responsibilities. Today, however, we have a situation where, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, almost half of the county boards have assessed that they do not have sufficient resources to carry out the emergency preparedness tasks they are required to perform. The Food Act has been phased out, and Sweden today has a very low level of food readiness in the event of war. MSB has also found that socially important activities lack back-up power and that the endurance of existing back-up power is inadequate. Society's ability to handle disturbances in electricity supply also has shortcomings, and there is a lack of knowledge among responsible actors about how the broad threat and risk picture should be handled, for example, in terms of how long power cuts we should be able to cope with and what threats and risks Sweden needs to have pharmaceutical and healthcare preparedness for. As I said, civil defence was de facto closed for a number of years, but the planning to recreate it has begun under the Red-Green Government. Among other things, war placements of personnel in important social functions have resumed, and the establishment of a new authority for psychological defence has begun. Most recently a few days ago, the government also announced an addition of 104 million to the cyber defence. The continued efforts to strengthen civil defence will, of course, be based on the report to which frequent reference has been made in this debate – Resistance, which the Defence Committee presented before Christmas. The report contains a large number of suggestions on how we can improve our food security, our energy security and our psychological defence, how we protect our financial systems and so on. The report gathered a great deal of support among the parliamentary parties, including my own, and I therefore hope that many of the proposals put forward in the report will become a reality in the coming years – even if things go so badly that the Green Party does not get its own majority. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-556	Madam President, I would like We would of course like to answer the questions after taking note of the exciting speech by the Green Party that Anders Schröder stumbled through based on what he wrote down. So let's take it one more time: We are talking about a crisis preparedness in Sweden. If you are going to have a crisis preparedness, it should cover the whole of Sweden. If you do not see that we have parallel societies that are emerging in some particularly difficult areas and if you do not understand that in some form it can also influence the approach to crisis preparedness, you are irreparably lost. If this problem grows and grows, it will be necessary, for example, for the police to help. We have been clear about how we want the police to help – protect police vehicles, protect ambulance transport and demarcate an area. That's what we're seeing, but it's the police who's asking. The fact that the Green Party does not think this surprises me at all, but I hope that we have now made it clear that we believe that it affects this. When planning, this should be taken into account.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-561	ver shall acquire and develop knowledge and values. It will promote the development and learning of all children and pupils as well as a lifelong desire to learn. All children and pupils must be given the guidance and encouragement they need in their learning and personal development so that they can develop as far as possible according to the goals of their education. All must have equal access to education, irrespective of their geographical location and social and economic circumstances. This is what the School Act, which every school municipality, principal, principal and teacher have to comply with and relate to in their daily work and which we members here in the Swedish Parliament have to develop, protect and take advantage of. The reality, however, Madam President, is quite different in Sweden today. After a period of increased focus on knowledge in school policy, and with light sparkles in the form of slightly more positive results after decades with a downward trend, the school results in Sweden are now deteriorating again. Last year, over 18 600 pupils completed comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school. In a country where the political debate in the field of education over the last four, five or six years has revolved around the fact that it is difficult to enter the labour market and to move on without a high school degree, it is therefore almost every fifth student who is not even allowed to go to high school. It's a major failure. Never has the number of students who are unauthorized been so great. Never has the proportion been so large, and it is also in all groups. The problem is – and should be – clear to Members of this House: too many students learn far too little. The school fails to provide the right conditions, and it is they who have the very worst conditions with them from home who are most affected. In Sweden, children should not have to inherit their parents' social problems, but unfortunately it is precisely this development we are now seeing. We obviously have major challenges, and Sweden would benefit from a government that takes these challenges seriously. Madam President, I would like Sweden has failed miserably with the compensatory mission. The difference between classrooms, between schools and between municipalities is far too great, and this is not something that Members of this House should be able to accept. The state simply needs to be prepared to take greater responsibility to guarantee everyone a good schooling. No matter where in the country you live and no matter which school you go to, all parents should be able to feel confident that their children get a good and safe schooling, where they learn what they need and then be able to move on and stand on their own in life. However, schools that year in and year out are unfortunately a common problem. It is not possible to reverse this trend, and it is the pupils who have to pay the price for the failure of politicians and other school leaders to resolve the situation. It is therefore high time that we in this House decided to introduce rigid and proper national quality requirements for what the Swedish school should deliver and thus also for what requirements and expectations one as a parent should have on what schooling one's child should receive. The school that falls between and fails to meet the challenges facing the school will receive the support that you need from the state and other actors that the state can take with you into this work. We will direct the support and measures to the schools that really need them, regardless of their principal. This is a much better order than what we have today, when we scatter various state subsidies and investments across schools without really knowing where they go. I refuse to believe, my friends, that the reason why more schools are not being turned around is the malice of municipal politicians, principals and teachers. It is simply a question of not getting the right conditions for action. We must therefore be prepared to ensure that all schools are given the opportunity to become good schools. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an increasingly segregated country, where the difference between residential areas is increasing. This segregation is also evident in school. If the school should not only contribute to breaking people's own segregation by delivering a good schooling – which is the single most important thing to ensure that people can build their own lives regardless of their background – but also contribute to breaking the housing segregation fills the school elections a very important function. For just over two decades, the school elections have now made class trips possible for the individual. However, if we are to ensure that the school elections also offer an opportunity for a more equal society, we need the school elections to be accessible to all and that everyone has the opportunity to participate on equal terms. We know that is not the case today. There is a big difference between different groups in the extent to which they use the free choice of school. We know that there are even many people in this country who live in the error that it costs money to use the free choice of school or to go to a free school. A free and active school choice is therefore important to ensure that it can be used by everyone and thereby break segregation instead of risking cementing and strengthening segregation. Madam President, I would like Let me touch on another of the school's problem areas, although it is sad that, when we come together in this House, we often focus on what is not working. However, this is something of the essence of politics, and that is where we need to put our energy. Madam President, I would like To the Swedish School Inspectorate, every other student says that they are disturbed by bad order in lessons to the point that it harms the teaching. Every other student! According to the National Association of Teachers, one in four teachers states that they have experienced threats, violence and violations at their workplace as teachers. An environment where every other student is disturbed in class and where every fourth teacher is exposed to threats and violence is not a working environment. It is not an environment where you can learn and where you can focus on developing your own skills in language, mathematics or whatever. It is also not a working environment that makes it possible to act as a teacher and to cope with the task of a teacher. Let me be clear that this is not a general problem in Swedish schools, but there are schools and classrooms where we have big problems with security and studyo. That is why I am glad that next week, when we vote, we are not able to finally take a position on the committee initiative that the Alliance launched in the Education Committee a little over a year ago. It is essential that we have a clearer school law with clearer mandates for teachers and principals, so that they have the opportunity to maintain order and security in school. No, it is not that we will get order and security in Swedish classrooms by giving teachers and principals the opportunity to use harder pinches. But a basic prerequisite for creating a safe and well-functioning working environment is that teachers get the natural leadership at school. That is why we need to strengthen their leadership skills, but we also need to ensure that they actually get the tools that are needed. Creating the security and study capacity needed in school is not only necessary to create a well-functioning working environment for students, where they can learn as much as possible, but it is also necessary for us to succeed in recruiting teachers to the Swedish school. A profession with a working environment where every fourth person is exposed to threats and violence is not a profession that will be attractive, no matter what salary you receive. I am therefore pleased that, in connection with this report too – if the Moderates get their way – we will vote on taking measures to make it easier for teachers in their working environment and in terms of their workload, to ensure that they can focus on being teachers. In the next few years we will lack 60 000 teachers in the Swedish school system. It's a big problem. If we are to overcome this, the teaching profession needs to become more attractive, with more pure tasks, but we also need to use the resources that we have considerably better. Madam President, I would like We have a long evening here together, I hope, to discuss education issues. That is because it is a wide range of different motion reports that we have to deal with. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that the Moderates are, of course, behind all our reservations and those of the Alliance, but I would particularly like to support reservations 1 and 12 in the report of the Education Committee 18, reservation 1 in the report of the Education Committee 19 and reservation 1 in the report of the Education Committee 20. I also have that on paper to the House.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-582	Madam President, I would like It was very good that Erik Bengtzboe had everything on paper. Instead, I must be clear about the claims regarding reservations. In UbU18, we Swedish democrats support all our reservations but call for the approval of reservations 19 and 20. In UbU19, we support all reservations, but we call for reservations 27 and 40 to be approved. In UbU20, we support all reservations, but we call for reservations 2 and 21 to be accepted. In UbU22, we agree with our reservations on the matter. It was very interesting to hear the Moderate speeches here. Many things we agree on, and on many things we think alike, but we may have a little different ways of reaching the same goal. Madam President, I would like I know that there are two other parties in this House who are thinking the same thing as us, namely that we have not succeeded in school since municipalisation. Herein lies a major problem. We can't see where the money goes. A country like Singapore, which has done very well in this case, uses 3.3% of its gross domestic product to school. In Sweden, we use 5.6 percent, and it is increasing all the time. This means that we are spending almost twice as much money as a country that has done twice as well as we have. Then what's their trick? It is simply that they have a government headship. They'll make sure they know where the money goes. It is not, as Erik Bengtzboe said here before, a sprinkle of a lot of different incentives, but there is a school authority, as we Swedish democrats have also proposed, and not 53 as it stands today. We need to know what is happening in the Swedish school and have control of the money that is being sent in there. Then a government principal is a solution. I will come back to it many times during my speech today. What's so important about the government principal? Yes, it is that we must have an equivalence in the Swedish school. If there is any way we can create equivalence, it is starting with the little things around the teachers. What has been cut since the municipalisation is school health care, curators, the SUVs, the caretakers, the IT management – the framework that is around the education. That is where the problem lies, because there are extremely large differences between different municipalities in Sweden. The pupil allowance can distinguish by up to 30,000, such a simple thing. We must change this. If we state-run the framework around the teachers, we leave the education to the teachers and the principals to do these things. If you do not deliver students who can be good in the labour market, who have a wide range and can succeed in the labour market, then it is time to go in with a state appointed headmaster. When you do that, you control the whole system. Then we must have rigid demands, as the Moderates so favorably put it here, and an equivalence throughout Sweden, and we get that through government control. What else can we do to improve the situation? Yes, through permission and, above all, supervision. The Swedish Democrats have allocated approximately 300 million extra to the Swedish School Inspectorate for unannounced visits. We have problems with certain religious free-schools, which have proved to be absolutely non-compliant. But a pre-registered visit to such a school does not mean that you see what it looks like in reality. You get an artificial reality revealed to you. It is the Swedish National Agency for Education that sets up the rules and the Swedish School Inspectorate who will try to review, and in between you have almost no communication. There's still the poor headmaster who's going to try to do everything that the school inspector's looking at. And it is rarely the same requirements that apply across Sweden, but it depends a little on which school inspector comes and the school inspector's background, whether it is a lawyer, a former vice-chancellor or what kind of professional background it may be. Madam President, I would like By creating a school authority, we avoid these problems. Then we get communicating vessels within one authority. The Vice-Chancellor must know what it is about to achieve certain goals. At present, penalties of up to SEK 500 000 are paid, a penalty payment that will be paid if the task has not been completed. But you may not have received help from the Swedish National Agency for Education or the Swedish School Inspectorate. Here again we see the advantage of a school authority. Why not introduce a system similar to that in the restaurant and hotel world, so that you know what the requirements are for achieving a certain level? We can call it gold stars, level 1 – 5 or what we want and a public register where all Swedish schools, municipal schools as well as free schools, cooperatives and other forms, are registered by the Swedish School Inspectorate. Then the Vice-Chancellor, the School Inspectorate, the Swedish National Agency for Education, teachers, parents and students know exactly what it takes to achieve a certain level. This is a clarity that could be extremely important for the whole system. With regard to the equivalence of free schools and municipal schools, the Swedish Democrats have put forward many different proposals. The most important thing I think is the digital pupil money. It can't be that there's so much difference that some free schools are underfunded from the semester's day one, because the municipality has set the student money so low that you won't make it. I will not mention specific municipalities here in the speaker's chair. But I do know a municipality that has done this for years in a row to put the free schools on slippery ice constantly. What happens at the end of December when the budget in municipal schools does not go together? Well, then the municipality provides funds but nothing to the free school unit. This is a way of trying to counteract free schools that are extremely ugly and should not be allowed. Of course, it should be an equal digital student money for all students in Sweden. Why digital? Well, to avoid sitting in endless individual meetings around a student with parents, the student himself, the principal, curator, school health care, special education and class teacher. That's a lot of hours spent on a lot of people. In the end, it may give 1,500 SEK to the student if you manage to find the right state grant for that student. Here, there must be clarity with a school authority and a digital pupil money. If everyone enters their results digitally, it will save a huge amount of time and the money will end up at the right school. Madam President, I would like I know that today there are many municipalities that make this difference when student money is calculated. If one student has switched to another municipal school or free school and then moves back, it is the other school that keeps the student money, while the school that has the student can be without financial support for the student for maybe four months. This is very unfair. With digitalisation, the money goes to the right school in the second. We've also talked about what the student money should be based on. Yes, certainly not on the salsapeng that exists today. We know that the School Commission came up with a socio-economic index, which would be produced by CSN, if I remember correctly. Here there is an incredible difference in what the money should be based on. Salsa basically says that if you're born abroad, you're a student who's underperforming. That is not the case. The second best students in the Swedish school today are the newly arrived girls. They haven't usually had this chance in their own countries. Instead, let us look at a socio-economic index. I guess a single mother or father, who may have double jobs and four children, has a lot more difficulty helping their children than newly arrived parents from a country where they have received a high education or a low education – there are two parents of one and the same child. Let us change the socio-economic index so that money is spent in the right place. We have talked a lot about the working environment here before, and we will continue to talk about the working environment, because the physical environment for students and teachers is absolutely the most important thing. I can only agree with Erik Bengtzboe, the previous speaker, that there are no salaries in the world that make teachers want to work at schools that are severely underperforming, usually located in segregated areas with very poor support. Madam President, I would like I have been out and lectured and talked to teachers many times and said: You get 5 000 kroner more, 10 000 kroner more or 20 000 kroner more if you work in this particular school. They answer: No, thank you. The working environment is by far the most important thing for the teaching staff. As a teacher, I have experienced schools that have been more or less exciting and schools that have had an amazing working environment, and that's what makes the big difference. It's enough to look in here. If we had had worse sounds, light and air and other physical things around us that had affected us, the debates might not have been as high a class. Madam President, I would like What can we do for the teachers? I think the most important thing is that we look at the students who do not have in the Swedish school to do. Students who have been convicted of such serious crimes that if they had been adults, they might not have been imprisoned in the Swedish school system. We are talking about perhaps 80 - 100 students. But if you have raped, stabbed or perhaps beaten a person almost to death, you have not in the normal Swedish school to do. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats propose a school of duty. I know the Moderates are running a line about trying to extend the time that students can be moved. Today, students within the municipality and the free school unit are moved for a maximum of four weeks, and that does not help. In today's digital world, students know very well that the boy or girl who is transferred from one school to another has committed this or that crime. Then two things happen: Either this student rigs himself up with enough things so that he can protect himself or the student gets hurt when he comes to the other school. We propose, as I said, a school of duty. You remove these students from the regular school system and give them the chance to still go to school; we have compulsory schooling in Sweden. In the duty school, they get the chance to have their studies taken care of but not in the regular school. We have talked many times about the Singapore model. I know that the government has proposed a professional programme that erases some of the first teacher system and the senior lecturer system. It was initially a good idea, but the problem was that it was the principal who was given the opportunity to decide who would get the 5,000 or 10,000 crowns. Then came the $3,000 that would be general wage increase. This money has been converted into a Singapore model with 18 different levels. We start at 27 000 kroner and end at 60 000 kroner. These in turn are divided into subjects, leadership and pedagogy with six levels for each category. Because the same person does not have all these skills, because we are different. Some are better leaders, some are good at subject knowledge and others are good educators. I asked two teachers in Växjö if they liked the first teacher system. They said yes. I asked them if they thought it was good that the principal handpicked which teachers would receive an extra 5,000. Yeah, that was great. Then I asked a follow-up question: Did the Vice-Chancellor visit your class last week and look at how you are with the students and how you work subject-wise and educationally? No, no one was with us, they answered. What about last month? No. The last six months? No. Was your principal in your classroom looking at how you are as a teacher before salaries were set and the $5,000 was distributed? The answer was no. Madam President, I would like Today, a Vice-Chancellor devotes 5 to 15 percent of his time to educational activities. The rest of the time is spent on a lot of administrative work that a principal should not have to do. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude my speech with two examples. We have proposed close cooperation between schools, business and associations. Here we have untapped resources in society that we should be able to put together. We want to see a society that sits together instead of the divided society we have today. When I worked as a teacher, I worked closely with the local sports associations. If the students did not do well at school, we agreed that they were not allowed to play in, for example, the next football game. That was a clear signal. We need a society that sits together, where we agree that if you don't behave, you won't get any benefits. My second example is one of my strongest moments as a teacher. It's from the time we made prao visits quite early, in grade 5. Before prao we visited different workplaces, and a student's experience made him motivated in a way that I have never seen before. We were at an IT factory... let's call it that for simplicity... and he said, "This is what I want to work with, Master Jakobsson." This is what I want to do with my future. Then I said, "Don't tell me; tell him who owns the place." The boy ran and asked the CEO what he needed to do to work there when he left school. The CEO was clear and said: You need to apply for this upper secondary school education and graduate with good grades. You need summer work with me as often as you can to show that you have good quality of your work, and you need to apply for this at the university. Then you can come here and look for work. ..................................................... That student went from being a little study motivated to being very study motivated. I don't know if he works there today, but I know he graduated grade 9 with very good grades. The most important thing is to understand why you go to school. Today, many students do not know why they go to school, why we have free education and what they should do afterwards.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-616	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that the Swedish Vice-Chancellors have my full confidence. Stefan Jakobsson's introduction shows how difficult it is to keep your foot where you have put it down. It is said that the role of politics is to set a framework and that the profession will then run the business. But then you have a long line of thought where you suspect the principal's ability to decide who should be the first teacher and who should have what salary. It's hard to be headmaster, and they deserve respect. I have full confidence that the principals can both decide who is suitable to be the first teacher and set salaries for their staff. We should not have a system in which politicians engage in this discussion – although I also wish that principals would spend more time in the classrooms. M a it must be their choice how to do it. Madam President, I would like That is not why I requested a reply, but because I do not understand how the Swedish Democrats think with their school of duty. It almost sounded like Stefan Jakobsson was talking about a war school. Is it your view that all students who have ever faced adversity, made bad decisions and committed criminal acts should be permanently sidelined in the Swedish school system and gathered at a single school where all these students together should form the student base? I do not believe for five cents in peer effects, and most research notes that it is not accepted that it exists. But I think it's a challenge to be a teacher at a school that 100 percent consists of the type of students that Stefan Jakobsson describes.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-621	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is about as difficult as guarding one of Sweden's prisons; that's about the level we're talking about. These are people as if they had been adults had been judged. The student is removed from the school system during the time it is under investigation. Of course, if you are not found guilty, you must have the chance to come back. At present, we do not dare to allow these students to spend only four weeks in another school. I know the Moderates have a proposal to extend the time, but it is still within the same municipality or the same school unit. It is not, of course, a school of duty for the whole of Sweden, but several units, and here the best-suited teachers should be put. We have also made it a state school, because here the state must assume its responsibilities. We are talking about 80– 150 students in Sweden, because very few are such serious criminals. I don't know what experience Erik has from his schooling, but I know that one such student can put fear in an entire school. One such student can create gangs that can do rough things. Often there is one person who pushes, much harder than the other students. When it comes to going in and governing in detail: No, of course we do not want to do that. I want the teachers and principals to control their own business. However, in the first teacher system, you go in and delegate the role to the principals. They are in many cases very good and competent people, but they do not have time to be out in the classroom and observe the teachers in such a way that would be fair from the point of view that all teachers should have the same chance. Let us take an example and turn it around. If Erik Bengtzboe gets to give 5 000 SEK to someone in the Moderates, except himself, who he thinks works much better than everyone else, I think he gets a name in the head already here and now on the one he knows delegates and works best. The same is true of a team – you know who should have the 5,000 crowns.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-626	Madam President, I would like I can agree with the fact that at times four weeks are insufficient to move a student. These are, above all, situations where a student behaves in such a way that it becomes threatening to staff or other students and where the student must be able to move permanently away from the environment. But school isn't a prison. The school is not an indoctrination institution. Nor is school a form of punishment. So if you are going to have one or a couple of duty schools nationally, because of suspicion you should be able to move individual students, judge them in advance and put them in this type of environment. I do not think it is a way of creating a good working environment, but I am convinced that it would be counterproductive for the individual students. Clear measures are needed to protect pupils in situations such as these. I am convinced that we are all in agreement there. But the student who behaves in such a way as Stefan Jakobsson describes is a student who needs to be handled. If the student is under 15 and not a criminal, it is social services that must go in and take responsibility for the student. It is not reasonable for this responsibility to be transferred to Swedish schools. Let me be clear about one thing, Madam President. This concerns the discussion that both me and Stefan Jakobsson had in the speaker's chair, about poor working environment for teachers and the fact that many teachers are exposed to threats and violence. When you listen to Stefan Jakobsson you can get a picture of that there is a similarity between poor working environment and working at schools located in socio-economically tough areas with tough conditions. That is not the case. That is not to be taken as a starting point, but there is a great difference between them. There are many schools that have tough conditions and that need good teachers but where there is a good working environment. This should not be confused in the problem picture.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-631	Madam President, I would like I'll try to be a non-politician and answer all the questions that came up. There were many of them, but we start from behind. No, of course it can be any environment at a school located in a segregated or non-segregated area. But we are aware that it is usually the students who go to the segregated schools who fail. The group that fails most in the Swedish school system today is often second or third generation immigrants, especially boys. They are the ones at the bottom of the performance scheme. Whether threats and violence exist throughout Sweden or are concentrated in some schools, I don't think Erik or I have any particularly good statistics on, but we know that a quarter of all teachers feel threatened or subjected to violence. If so, is there a chance that it is one of the 80 - 150 students that I talked about earlier that is behind some of it? Yes, most likely. It is not easy to deal with this issue, because we know that there are many laws around. We know that there are a lot of social networks that will try to catch up with these students, but the problem is that it takes too long. The system is heavily overloaded today, which means that it takes a long time. I've been involved in picking up a guy who had a knuckle iron with a welded knife and went into a fight with another guy at school. We took the knife and the knuckle iron from him, and he was evicted from school that day. The next day he came back again, which meant an extremely large threat to the other students. Somewhere we have to make a choice here: Is it these extremely few students' right to go to school that is most important, or is the other 1 million students who are present in Sweden and who are actually doing well? The Swedish democrats are on their side.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-637	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate a number of different reports. Of course we support all our reservations, but I would like to be as clear as possible by saying that in Ubu18 I am in favour of reservation 25, in UbU19 I am in favour of reservations 23 and 29, and in Ubu20 I am in favour of reservation 27. Hopefully this was clear enough. And, as I said, of course, we support all our various reservations. When I was preparing this debate, I thought about a number of things, and then the idea came to mind that school is still Sweden's most important workplace. Immediately I began to wonder if there is anything that contradicts this. There are many different important workplaces, but if you are going to look at the environment where all our children and young people go in principle every day, I still have to say that the school is Sweden's most important workplace. Then we politicians have a great responsibility for what conditions we provide for it to function as optimally as possible. All children and young people meet there. They are met with respect from teachers, principals, student health staff, counselors, psychologists and so on. In addition to meeting and learning together, they also learn to associate with one another. It is important for every child to go to a really good school. That is not what it looks like today. The reports that we are now going to debate are motion reports that contain a great deal, and I would just like to dwell briefly on the reservations of the Center Party. Of course, there are many other important issues as well. Both the Center Party and all four alliance parties have worked together for many years to strengthen Swedish school – four years in an alliance government with a majority, for another four years and in opposition to produce proposals that we have considered important to seriously reverse the trend with declining results. In order to do this, a number of additional measures are needed in areas which, in my opinion, the current government does not fully recognise or perhaps even fail to understand what it would have to do with. As far as security and study are concerned, I am pleased with the announcement that is now coming. Just as Erik Bengtzboe mentioned in his speech, for some reason it has taken a long time. It is just over a year that it has been prepared, but here it comes anyway. This requires better opportunities for the Vice-Chancellor to act if students are subjected to violations or crimes by other students. As the time is short, I will proceed quickly to the next reservation. Last year we talked a great deal about remote learning, and that issue is unfortunately equally topical today. There are still too few subjects where remote learning is possible. It should be allowed in all relevant subjects at school. There is already a great technological know-how and developed solutions for welfare technology, and these are developing very quickly. Of course, one must follow developments closely to see that learning is as optimal as possible. This benefits from good teachers being able to teach at more schools without having to travel so much. It may be about recruiting the right skills in sparsely populated areas, but it may also be that there is a qualified teacher in northern Skaraborg who is perhaps first teacher, lecturer or lecturer and so on, who is really good and who has the opportunity to use their skills in other parts of Skaraborg, in urban areas or in outlying schools, where it can be difficult to recruit the right skills. It may also be that it is not a question of whole subjects, but of certain subject areas. H is the legislation needs to be changed so that you can work in a different way across municipal boundaries and between different employers so that the opportunity for learning to be as good as possible increases. Remote education has great opportunities for the future. Madam President, I would like I am moving on between the reports. In report 19, I would like to raise the issue of study and career guidance, the working and school environment, pupil health, sport and physical activity. Each area really deserves its own debate, because it is important for the learning and development of schools in many different ways. In short, I can say this: Every child and youth has the right to a really good study and career guidance. We have had joint declarations from the committee before, and I look forward to it becoming more reality and a workshop. In order to do this, it is not just a question of electoral competence and the choice for upper secondary school, language choices in primary school and then upper secondary school elections, but of study and career guidance being a common thread that runs throughout the school. It is often the case that children in the younger ages of comprehensive school are quite good at having contact with the surrounding community. You talk about occupations, social functions and so on. But then it decreases in many schools as comprehensive school progresses. It's troubling. There you would have to make a big effort. What the Alliance Party leaders presented on Tuesday also highlighted the importance of strengthening study and career guidance. It is important that the work environment and the school environment are safe and secure. It should, of course, be free from violations and crimes. Crimes that should be investigated should of course also be reported to the police to the extent necessary. It can be about sexual crimes or crimes against life and health in or around the school environment. Another point that I would also like to highlight in relation to violence against children concerns what we sometimes call honour-related violence. There, knowledge needs to be significantly improved in many schools. At each school, a function with higher competence and a special responsibility is needed to support teachers and help with complaints to social services. The mental illness is perhaps the one that worries us the most. It is too large among young people, not least among young girls. It must be easier to get support through student health in cases of mental illness. The whole chain must also be connected with the BUP and so on. That's where you need to make a backup. As you can see, I quickly move from reservation to reservation. The fourth part I would like to highlight is about sport and physical activity, which is crucial for both physical and mental ill health, as well as for physical and mental health. Daily physical activity is really good for both health and learning. Today they have a responsibility to try to make sure that there is room for movement on school day, but if you look at young girls at school today you see that 44 percent of them move far too little compared to what they would have to do. That sedentary sitting can never be healthy. Then you need to create other conditions. It may also be necessary to review the wording of the curriculum. Madam President, I would like I turn to the last report, UbU20, Basic on education. A large number of different issues have been raised. On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to highlight the need for entrepreneurship at school. Entrepreneurial learning is about strengthening general competences such as taking initiatives, taking responsibility and turning ideas into action, but it also promotes the competence to make decisions, communicate and collaborate. As if that were not enough, it is also about developing curiosity, self-confidence, creativity and courage to take risks. The schools that work with an approach that promotes the entrepreneurial approach we see are successful on many different levels. When I start thinking about how this increases my imagination and creation, I can long for the school world, because it is one of the funniest things there is to work with young people to strengthen all those skills and link it to strong learning with all the knowledge you need. We need to be better at letting research and knowledge about how the brain works promote learning and promote the classroom-related development of working methods, so that it becomes significantly better. Madam President, I would like Another important part of young people's development and understanding of themselves is a good sex and cohabitation education. From the Center Party we are working hard to make it a compulsory part of teacher training. There are a number of issues at stake. What is specifically mentioned in a motion from four colleagues to me is about a mission to the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop guidelines for how to bring up discussions with students about pornography in sex and cohabitation education. It is not easy to do as a teacher, but I know that we will hear more about it in the debate ahead.
i-9bb7yihoDWRSCL9EjxW6bv	Madam President, I would like I support the following reservations: in UbU18 reservation 10, in UbU19 reservations 6 and 30 and in UbU20 reservation 35. I would like to begin the speech itself with a quote from a high-ranking person in the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise: It was about tax planning and our tax resources and money. Sometimes you can hear the kind of rhetoric here too – not in this debate, but in many budget debates when we talk about school, welfare, health care and care for the elderly. In some way, the bourgeoisie questions the contribution of tax money to taking our society forward. A good example of what the hell you get is a democratic debate on how Swedish schools can move forward, strengthen and improve. Every person needs knowledge of himself and his surroundings. The more she understands, the more ability she has to deal with the world around her. The possibility of influencing one's own life and society becomes greater. Knowledge is simply power. A school for a modern and democratic society is not just about training for working life. It is also about everyone's right to education. The Left built a school for everyone in the 20th century, contrary to a right that wanted knowledge to be a privilege for a few. In no other country were the differences in performance between schools as small as here. Today, progress is going in the wrong direction. Students' background is increasingly important according to all measurements. According to various reports, how much students learn today depends increasingly on which school they end up in. What parents they have also plays a greater role. It doesn't have to be that way. The Left Party wants to create an equal and cohesive school. The school and preschool should lay the foundations for a life of opportunity, not a petrified class society. We live in a complex and changing world. In order to be able to participate and influence in a democratic society, more knowledge of how society functions is required today. As the differences in study results increase, the democratic debate and, in the long run, the possibility of a vibrant democracy are eroded. The ideals of left-wing democracy are based on enlightened citizens of society. This requires both a coherent school system and a high level of knowledge among the entire population. The school must be able to develop both pupils' knowledge of the forms of democracy and the necessary knowledge of the world. Madam President, I would like School and preschool are not suitable for business thinking. A good education is a human right. Then schools should not be able to go bankrupt in the middle of the semester. Students should be able to trust that they have a school to come back to after the summer vacation. The school will be better if teachers focus on teaching rather than making profits for their owners or attracting more students. The state therefore needs to take responsibility for the school from the municipalities, but the municipalities should of course be involved in deciding which schools should be in the municipality and where they should be. Nor should it be the responsibility of parents to ensure that children end up in a good school, as they are today. All schools in Sweden should be good schools. An equal school and an equal preschool are good for everyone. When students of different backgrounds and outlooks meet, not only the results but also the cohesion of our children and students improve. It is therefore necessary, inter alia, to re-use the catchment areas on the basis of a comprehensive social composition in order to counter segregation. The main principle, Madam President, should always be that students can go to a good school near home. But it should of course be possible to counteract segregation through the design of the harvesting area. You should also be able to choose other schools. School cannot abolish class society. But it can even out class differences, so that all children get a good start in life, and therefore more resources should be added. It must also be ensured that resources are allocated according to needs, so that children who need the most support can get it directly and do not lag behind. In order to compensate for the different backgrounds and needs of the pupils, the resources of the school must be used properly and at the right time. Today, for pupils in need of special support, the biggest efforts are made only at the end of comprehensive school and in upper secondary school, despite the fact that all research shows that early intervention produces the best results. We want to change this and ensure that there is sufficient resources for special support already in preschool and during the first years of primary school. All children must be entitled to a preschool where the educational activities are of the highest quality. Madam President, I would like School and preschool should also be a safe place. It should be a safe place free from racism, sexual abuse and bullying. It's supposed to work in a normative manner. No student should feel offended or invisible. No one should have to go to a school with a lump in the stomach, as many students do today. Earlier in the debate on another report, I have mentioned an issue which I would like to raise again. I am very proud that the government and the Left Party have agreed that an investment of SEK 120 million to counteract sexism and to invest in a work with a better sex and cohabitation education at school. Most of this money will go to sex and cohabitation education. It is something we have seen during the advance of the Metoo movement, or what I would call a revolution. What we have seen is that we finally have such strong pressure on these issues when it comes to patriarchal structures. This applies not only to working life, politics or other areas, but also to school. It has also been shown that many students have been involved in this issue. The Left Party is calling for all support for those who have launched initiatives such as quiet in the class or other initiatives which are extremely important. But there are also other issues such as racism. Many students in today's school feel exposed to a racist advance that, unfortunately, has been increasingly violent. Almost every week I get in touch with students who tell me that they don't know where to go when it comes to reporting racist events at their schools. Unfortunately, when they contact their principals, too often these students do not get the response they deserve. But there are also other students who are LGBTQ people and students with disabilities and disabilities who also do not always get the help they need. Therefore, more efforts are needed with norm criticism and work to acquire study material at school that is from a norm-critical perspective in order to be able to work with these issues. Madam President, I would like Another issue I would like to talk about is the career ladder and the situation of teachers in school. I have mentioned it many times before, and I would like to mention it again. The system we have today with, among other things, the first teacher system is a failed system. It is a system that we urgently need to change fundamentally. I don't know how many schools I've visited lately where teachers talk about themselves in the form of first teachers and final teachers. This must not be the case in Swedish schools or for that matter in any other school. That is why we need to analyse what has been done wrong. You must be able to examine yourselves in your parties in order to change in the right direction. I would appeal to all parties here to support us in the Left Party in our proposal to abolish the current segregation of career stages. According to all the teachers I've spoken to, it's very unclear. Instead, it is necessary to acquire a career step system based on actual levels of education and qualifications and on how long you have worked. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to raise the issue of the asylum and refugee policy that prevails in the country today. We have many unaccompanied children and young people in our schools who feel a great deal of insecurity and who do not know what will happen to them in the coming time. As a result, a great many teachers, curators and guidance counselors have become involved in their cases. It is not just a question of migration policy. It is also about an education policy for everyone and everyone's right to knowledge. Students who do not know what will happen to their lives in two months' time will also not have the motivation to invest in school. Let us do something else instead of having a debate that unfortunately takes too much space in Sweden today about how we should be most inhumane to refugees, how we should talk most populistically about how we get things together in school and how we should talk more populistically about immigration and people who look like me. Let's talk about how we can create a school that is for all children where even these children are included. The school will lay the foundation for a life of opportunity. That is why we need to restore equal school.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-680	Madam President, I would like Let us begin by rejoicing at Daniel Riazats's commitment to metoo. It is a revolution that I am convinced will, above all, change a few different areas. Politics is one of them and the school is another. Furthermore, as a left-wing partyist, Daniel Riazat is very aware that a good revolution always comes from below. Madam President, I would like Sweden has historically failed with the compensatory mission. It has become apparent in recent years when the differences between municipalities and schools have grown. Among other things, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation notes, however, that it is not really the case that we have become worse at the compensatory mission in Sweden. The big problem is that we have had greater differences in initial values. We have a two-pronged problem. People with a weak educational background and a weak socio-economic background live in more housing segregation than before. Those who have the weakest conditions to enter the school system have been given even weaker opportunities than they had 30 to 40 years ago. Therefore, the differences are even more visible. If this development is to be resisted, action is needed. This is why, among other things, the Moderates have proposed to increase teaching time and to focus more on math and Swedish. We know that these are subjects in which students fail. It takes the students to get the start of the first life they deserve. Instead, Daniel Riazat refers to the fact that the school should be nationalised in order to equalise the differences. The problem with that is that it is assumed that it is management that is the problem. If you just change the management of schools, the differences will be wiped out. I think that's false. Does Daniel Riazat share my and IFAU's view that it is housing segregation and the severely deteriorating conditions for the students that it is all about? How do you intend to address those changes regardless of who is the principal?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-686	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengt z boe, for the question! I am very happy every time I hear a moderate say the word revolution. In this case, it is a much-needed revolution like the Metoo. What we are really talking about is the equivalence and equality in the Swedish school and how well the Swedish school succeeds or does not succeed in compensating for the students' background. I absolutely agree with Erik Bengtzboe that Swedish school today is unfortunately unable to compensate enough. It is, of course, about housing segregation and other parts that have affected and that make it harder for the school to work with it. But we also know, according to the research that exists, that, for example, the segregation of residents has been greatly reinforced by the bourgeois invention of free school elections, among other things. It is also about what our funding system looks like for the Swedish school, about the headmanship and the free school reform as such, but mainly about the prize hunt within the Swedish school. There are a number of reports that have shown that the housing segregation we have strengthened quite strongly by the free school elections and the market system that the Moderates, the rest of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats push so hard for. I simply mean that there are absolutely things we can do in other policy areas. We need to change the housing market as it stands and housing policy. For example, the government has begun to build a little more housing. That's about more this year than the Alliance did for eight years. There are also other measures to close the gap by having a fairer tax system and to invest resources where they are needed and to ensure that they do not go to tax havens. These are some of the proposals that Erik Bengtzboe will not support.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-693	Madam President, I would like Revolution is rarely a moderate business idea, although I can appreciate the particular individual we discussed a little earlier. After all, it is very welcome. Madam President, I would like As Daniel Riazat notes, we have problems with the primary use of school choices by socially strong parents. It has been established in several different reports. Among others, the School Commission and the OECD have looked at this. What Daniel Riazat forgets to mention, Madam President, is the fact that the solution to this problem is to make school choices available to more people. We will have an active school choice and a school choice that is accessible to everyone, where the information applies equally to everyone and is available in several languages, where parents, regardless of background, can make decisions on comparable premises and where, for example, people do not live with the delusion that it costs money to go to a free school. Then school choices can be part of the solution instead of being part of the problem. Until Daniel Riazat brings along the rest of the Swedish left to abolish the free choice of school, I think it would be a welcome step to face the segregation to take this step fully, although I understand that the Left Party would rather not see a free choice of school. They simply live with a picture that it is better for politicians to plan than for people to have their own freedom of choice. Then you can call the picture that the Moderates have a market-driven image, but I don't think it is. The fact that people have the freedom to make decisions in their everyday lives instead of doing so through elections every four years is still about having the right to make the same choices. You might want to compare it to a market – yes, if Ica is only open once a week, that's still where you go and is even if it just happens to be a Sunday every four years. If we want all students to meet, we need to do something about housing segregation. But doing something about the free choice of school and limiting it today would only be permanent, and that is the wrong way to go.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-699	Madam President, I would like I do not really know how to respond to these from Erik, but I still start at the heart of the question. It is really about the Alliance's, and above all the Moderates', view of what is equivalence and equality and what is not. If you want an equal and equal school, you take the measures needed to have a less segregated school and for students to meet regardless of background. If you do not want to do so, there will be declarations of intent that we must make this available to everyone and that we must do something different. Erik Bengtzboe knows as well as I and everyone else in this room that no matter how much information you will go out with all of Sweden's parents, it will still be the resourceful parents who will put their children first in the so-called more popular schools. For me this is very simple, Erik Bengtzboe. I know it's not as easy for the Moderates. But for me, it's about every student's right to knowledge. If all students are to have equal opportunities and if students from Rinkeby are to have the same opportunities as students out there in Danderyd, which they don't have today, we need to have a school that has a government headship. But it also requires that we have a school where profit interests, profit-hunting and free choice of schools that are intended solely for the benefit of these actors do not come before the children's best interests. In this case, the children's best interests are that our resources go to what they are intended for, that is, to the teachers and to the students. However, it is also necessary that we redeploy the school system so that resources are allocated according to needs and not as they are today. If Erik Bengtzboe has not listened to me now, I would urge him to listen to the research. You would have to do that instead of listening to Jan Björklund, because the latest research he listened to is basically not registered anywhere.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-705	Madam President, I would like It is not so often that I listen carefully when the Left is debating here, given that we are not so similar in our policies. But sometimes you listen with half an ear, and if I heard correctly, the Left here speaks via Daniel Riazat about when the Left built up the Swedish school during the 20th century. I do not know if I have missed anything, Madam President, but I have no memory of the fact that the Left has ever been in government. And the Left has only been named since the 1990s, so then it was the Communists. It would be interesting to hear more about that question. In the next question, we are in fact in agreement: both we and the Left Party want to nationalise the Swedish school. I usually list a whole battery, Madam President, with what precise proposals the Swedish Democrats have for how to nationalise. But I'm not going to talk for long, but I was going to leave the time to Daniel so that he can explain to the Swedish Democrats and to the Liberals – who think the same about the question – what it is Left means by nationalizing. And then I would like concrete proposals, Madam President.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-708	Madam President, I would like Stefan Jakobsson put it very well when he said that he does not usually listen very well. I really agree with him on that. If there is anything I agree with Stefan Jakobsson about, that is indeed the question. When I said that the left has been involved in building up Swedish school, I must point out what I think most people understand: The left is not a party, but the left is a movement of people who are basically a grass-roots movement. It has been involved in building up the Swedish school. It's not that hard to see. The collective left, to which I also count the Social Democracy during that time, was involved in building a school that was no longer for a few but became for everyone. Together with the labour movement and a peoples' education movement, they were involved in building a school where the vision was everyone's right to knowledge. That is what I meant by the fact that the left has been involved in building up the Swedish school. It is clear what has happened the more bourgeois Swedish politics has become and what has happened during the time when the bourgeoisie has been in state power: It has become a completely different school system. It is known that changing the school system also changes the labour market and economic policy. You can increase the differences in school already, and they will continue for the rest of their lives. As far as nationalisation is concerned, we have a number of proposals, including that teachers' principals should be the state and that municipalities should be the ones that decide which schools should exist and where they should be. But we have also said that we want to set up a broad investigation with all parties, except the non-democratic party of the Swedish Democrats, which is about how to move forward on this issue.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-713	Madam President, I would like Daniel has become a pretty good politician here over the years when it comes to not answering questions. But at least that was almost the answer to a question, so I guess I'll have to be happy for what little you get up here. There is something that frightened me a little bit here before, Madam President. I don't know, either Daniel will have to explain himself or he'll have to clarify himself. Like you, we are pursuing a line that the first teacher system and the lecturer system have not succeeded. It is based on wrong grounds, and there are no fixed criteria. You do not weigh in subject knowledge, and you do not take in leadership and pedagogy, nor the other knowledge that we have printed from the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like One word that Daniel Riazat mentioned here was the number of years worked. I'll ask Daniel Riazat to think about the teacher he's had that he thinks worked best. It could be a woman or a man – either. But I don't think it's the number of years that makes Daniel Riazat think that this teacher was the absolute best. I rather believe that it is other criteria that the teacher has in his/her subject knowledge, what leadership qualities he/she possesses and what pedagogy he/she uses. That is what the important criteria are. We can't put in age and that someone's been working for 40 years. I have worked with teachers who have worked for incredibly many years, and I have worked with teachers who have worked only a few years. I can say that it was not the number of years at school that made them good or bad, but it had a lot to do with their other skills. As for the other thing, I understand the left-wing movement. I myself am a Kokkolasse from the beginning. I'm a folk-home boss, so I know exactly what Daniel's talking about. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats have failed this line, which is why I chose to change sides. Now I know that the debate will certainly end with Daniel Riazat calling me for something that I have said or not said. I know you won't take my hand either. It's just as fun every time that you talk about everyone's equal right and worth and everything and then refuse to take a person in hand. But I'm gonna stretch my hand out again, and we'll see what happens.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-720	Madam President, I would like I would just like to emphasise that I was not elected to the Swedish Parliament to shake hands with racists, but I did so to conduct the policy of the Left Party. When I talked about what should be required for a teacher to receive a certain salary, there is nothing that we go into detail on the part of the Left Party. We're not saying pay should be this or that. We have something called the Swedish model here in Sweden, and I care about the Swedish model. However, there are certain criteria within the Swedish model. One of them usually is how long you have worked at a workplace when there is usually a kind of salary staircase. I also mentioned, which Stefan Jakobsson did not really listen to, that it also requires qualifications in the form of different levels of education and educational skills, etcetera. That's the answer to that question. With regard to values and what Stefan Jakobsson ralje ralje, I would say that it is highly topical in a world where we see more and more fake news, which your party, for example, largely stands for, where, unfortunately, extreme forces are increasing from country to country and where people like Trump and Viktor Orbán can win elections. Then we know that if there is something we should work with in school, those are the values. It is a question of all people, all our children, learning about fundamental democratic rights and values. For me, there is nothing to be over, and I am very serious when I talk about those issues. If Stefan Jakobsson also is: Prove further what the Swedish Democrats are for party!
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-724	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 8 of the UbU18. It is about Sweden needing a government headship for the school in order for us to get equivalence and equal opportunities for everyone. I also support the UbU19's reservation 45. It is about that those who come new to Sweden must have a better opportunity to succeed in school. Finally, I also call for reservation 25 in the UbU20. It is about that we need better sex and cohabitation education in Swedish schools. Madam President, I would like It was sunny and warm in Skåne for a few days last week. I happened to walk past a playground and heard a fight between a child and her father. The girl wanted ice cream because everyone else at the playground ate ice cream, but the father said: We don't have money for it. The child was sad and probably had experienced this situation several times before. As I listened to this, I remembered that I myself have been in that situation. If you say that there is no poverty in Sweden and that relative poverty is not a concept we should use, you have never stood in the playground and seen how all children eat ice cream except your own because you cannot afford to pay. Being poor is hard. Feeling that you can't do anything about poverty and that you can't get out of poverty is even more difficult. But the worst of all is to be convinced that one's own child will inherit that poverty and that it will probably get even worse for the child. It is a feeling that is depressing for the individual, but it is also depressing for society if more people feel that the next generation is getting worse than they had it themselves. It is therefore one of the main tasks of Swedish school politicians to ensure that this does not happen and to ensure that the social heritage does not move from parents to children: that the parents' background and the child's background do not determine the child's future. But for people to hope for the future, it is not enough for politicians to talk about it. Future hope is not created in macros, not in debates, but in micros because individuals feel that they can do something about their situation. People need to feel that in their own lives. One must feel that there is security in the idea that one's own children can actually get better even though one has it tough. That is why, Madam President, I and the Liberals are repeatedly putting forward proposals in this House to improve Swedish school and to have an even clearer focus on knowledge. Because that's how you break social inheritance. That is how it is ensured that the fact that children today are increasingly inheriting their parents' opportunities is not cemented. To do something about it, you have to start very early. That is why preschool is central: to have good quality of it, to have an educational focus on preschool and to make sure that many people want to become preschool teachers. That's why it's important to have a ten-year primary school – to make sure you start early and therefore to turn the preschool class into a first part of primary school. It is also important to have clear evaluations as early as possible and to try to identify those who need a little extra support and also to ensure that there really is extra support and that nte just states that the support is needed. That is why evaluations are needed, and that is why we need national quality reviews and national tests in grade 3 so that we push down support so that more people get support early and succeed early. All of that is to learn more and to learn more. It is particularly important to focus on knowledge early on for those who come from home where there is no knowledge focus and where parents do not have experience studying much and cannot help their children. Madam President, I would like To reduce the risk that parents' background determines their children's future, consideration must also be given to the quality of their resources. It is so easy that we in this House are talking about quantity. Millions are promised, billions are promised and sometimes tens of billions are promised, but it is also about the quality of resources. It is a major problem in Sweden, Madam President – and we differ from most other countries – that it is difficult to recruit the most experienced and skilled teachers to the schools where they are most needed. Where the biggest challenges lie, the most experienced teachers and the most experienced and skilled school leaders are also needed. In order to break social heritage, one must also break the constructive approach of knowledge that is increasingly spreading and that stands in here and where: the anchor that the children should learn themselves as far as possible and strive to seek their own knowledge and research where they are. When it is said that you should search where you are and dig where you stand, it is clear that the social heritage will play a major role. Therefore, it is important to break this and have clear curricula and knowledge requirements that focus on factual knowledge, knowledge and the ability to listen to what the teacher tells. Madam President, I would like We see that quite a few schools have a lack of teaching material. This, combined with the knowledge that exists in some places, makes the parents'background even more important. It is difficult to help your children at home if you do not understand the question asked yourself. Perhaps the most strategic thing is to ensure that more people want to become teachers, that more people apply for teacher education, that teacher education is really good and that we have more continuous training for teachers, because their profession is to teach to other people, and then they must also have the chance to learn for themselves. You can also make it more difficult to get into teacher training – there should be competition for the places – and make sure that we have a licence that works and that the person who is knowledgeable in a subject is also the person who assesses the knowledge that the student has. In addition, you can make sure that the salary is attractive but also that the training and career paths are such that this is a profession that you really want to remain in and maybe even that those who have not attended the teacher education want to quickly retrain to become teachers because they want to contribute to something really, really good in Swedish society. I think another strategic issue is to get better study and order and order in Swedish classrooms. It has effects in many different directions if we succeed in doing so, and today we have quite widespread problems, not least compared to other countries. Of course it is difficult to learn things if there is a lack of study in a classroom. It is difficult to recruit teachers to a work environment where they do not feel safe and where they are not allowed to do the job they want to do themselves. Of course, it is difficult, especially for those who need the school most, to learn something when it's messy. And bullying, sexual harassment and other things that we don't want in school have a better chance of spreading when you don't have order in the classroom and there are no rules of order that can be followed. Speaking of the status of the school, Madam President, it is time to start preparing for the nationalisation of the school. It's important for a number of reasons. On the one hand, it is a clear indication that this is a central task in Swedish society. It is the infrastructure for us to succeed in competing in global competition. But it is also a way to improve equivalence across the country and make sure that there is greater equivalence in each school and every classroom, and it is a way to get order and order in the management of the school and get the right focus in each school. More knowledge is needed. Madam President, I would like I sometimes like to take a little broad perspective. Looking at developments over the last few centuries, let us say from the Renaissance onwards, there are essentially two major things that have happened that have made the conditions for being human are very different. It is so easy to think about technological development, economic development and medical development, but the two big things are that traditions are becoming less and less important and religions are becoming less and less important. We have gone from having external rules that tell you how it should be, how to act and what to choose, to the individual having to make many more choices himself. As a Liberal, I think that is excellent. But for you to be able to make those choices and not get stuck in what others think and think, you need to have a lot of knowledge and education. That is why school is incredibly important for liberals, Madam President. I am in favour of the reservations I mentioned earlier. Otherwise, of course, I support the reservations expressed by the Liberals and the Alliance.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-742	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Mr Nylander said in the speaker's chair. This also applies to what Erik Bengtzboe said earlier. It can be seen that elections are approaching. So to my question. Christer Nylander's party had the Ministry of Education in this country for eight years. The school budget itself had power over another year because they chose to join the Swedish Democrats and vote down the government's and Left Party's budget. During the eight years, the number of children living in relative poverty in Sweden increased more than in most countries in Europe. During those years, class divisions in Sweden generally increased more than in any other OECD country. In those years, school results fell at the same time as the free school reform, or if you call it the free school experiment, basically exploded and became something that no other country in the world has seen before. Christer Nylander wants us to have a school that compensates, so that children do not end up in relative poverty. He wants all children to have the right to know and that all children, regardless of their disability, background or parents, should attend that school. Why did your party choose to focus for eight years on tax cuts instead of spending on school, Christer Nylander? Why did your party choose to reduce resources to the Swedish school and thus also to the teacher density in the Swedish school, to the student health in the Swedish school and to the study and career guidance in the Swedish school? It was done during your party's time in power, during Jan Björklund's time as Minister of Education. You'll be guilty of the answer.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-747	Madam President, I would like If I am guilty of the answer, the listeners will have to decide, not the one who asks the question. I would like Daniel Riazat in his next line to tell us exactly how the teacher density changed during the eight years we were in power. Please tell me, Daniel Riazat! Then continue with these three years when you have influenced the power! Tell me what the teacher density looks like! Then you and those who listen will see that the teacher density has remained largely unchanged over the past decade. We spent eight years on an incredibly comprehensive reform agenda. We in the Alliance had prepared well and had written us together on school policy. And from day one we started delivering. We changed an entire school team, we implemented increased knowledge requirements, we carried out increased teacher salaries and we ensured that teachers received further training, which they had not received before. In the area by area, we carried out knowledge reforms to strengthen Swedish schools, to strengthen the individual students and above all to strengthen opportunities and opportunities for those who come from homes where you do not have a tradition of studying. If the issue of social heritage is to be resolved, if the parents' background is not to play a big role, I think that you have to keep track of knowledge and control of order and invest in knowledge as early as possible. That is exactly what we did with our reforms. And precisely the reforms that we carried out together with skilled teachers and students, who stood up and did as much as they could, have led to Sweden gradually getting better results in international surveys. I'm proud of that. If social injustice is to be broken in the long term, nothing more important can be done than to ensure that more people learn more, and preferably as early as possible.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-753	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Christer Nylander. It's great that in his rhetorical game here he says that he wants there to be social justice, that is, socialism. But what I am talking about is eight years when the Swedish school's results declined in all measurements in principle. This applies both to the gaps and to the gaps in knowledge within the Swedish school. It was during your party's time in the government, Christer Nylander. You can't get away from that. When the tax is reduced by about SEK 140 billion, you don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that it has to be taken from somewhere. It was taken from somewhere. And for a number of years we saw the result. I am not saying that everything has become perfect since this government came to power. The fact is that the Left Party is still pushing for reform. But I still have no answer as to why Christer Nylander's party prioritised not to listen to the profession, not to listen to the research and why they also invested very consciously in increasing the gaps. What we saw in those years is, as I said, something that Sweden has never seen before. It was an experiment with Swedish school that had terrible consequences according to all sensible research that is not from the 1930s, as Jan Björklund usually refers to. However, all teachers, principals and other school leaders should have all the credit because they still made sure to make the best of the situation. You shouldn't take credit for that, Christer Nylander. It was hardworking people at all schools throughout the country who did this with their school leaders. It wasn't Christer Nylander or the Liberals.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-757	Madam President, I would like I want to say two things. Firstly, social justice is not the same as socialism. Social justice is created with a school of knowledge and nothing else. Secondly, we have never had so many, 17 1⁄2 per cent, who leave comprehensive school without being able to move on to upper secondary school. You can't get more clear evidence than that because this government is destroying Swedish school. When we were in power, the knowledge was strengthened. As a result, we also got better results in PISA. If you are going to take the clear and simple points that Daniel Riazat is trying to make, you still have to understand that it is not a very good grade for a government when more people than ever fail primary school.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-761	Madam President, I would like I understand that the attack leads to a little red in the face. Maybe I should try to catch up on what was said in an earlier line here. I think Daniel Riazat just proved he's not a rocket scientist. It took five to ten years before what Björklund did during his eight years as Minister of Education gave effect. The small upturn, or at least braking, that we saw in the OECD study is actually to be taken credit for. I worked as a teacher during that time, and I know it takes time for students to go from grade one, two and three and come up to grade eight and nine. As I said, no rocket science is needed to understand that. So I think you should take credit for that, Christer Nylander. Are all the things that you carried out something that the Swedish Democrats are behind? No, maybe not. But you did a lot of good things that improved school results. Madam President, I would like I agree with Christer Nylander that many things that have been good for students, teachers and principals are now being removed. The Swedish Democrats and the Liberals have a common issue. It's the nationalization. I would like to hear a few brief and concrete proposals from Christer Nylander on nationalisation to see where we can meet on this issue. I will also take up the sacred cow – teacher training, to see what we can do about it. Unfortunately, we know that the students rarely or often never get better than the teaching staff. The countries that have managed to turn trends up make sure to invest a lot in teachers. We have teachers who have attended a teacher education that may not have been by far the best and high-quality education. 70 percent drop-out from teacher education at Mälardalen University says quite a lot. It would be interesting to hear what thoughts Christer Nylander has about what we can do about the existing education. You actually started training for the teachers. Can we nationalise it in any way and ensure that it is equal throughout Sweden? And according to Christer Nylander, what kind of education do we need to change in teacher training today to make it better?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-770	Madam President, I would like To the first question, I answer that we believe that the state should take over the main responsibility from the municipalities. This means that it will be the state that pays salary to the headmaster and teachers. Precisely how this is to happen will of course have to be investigated because it is a fairly large reform. We do not want the system that was in place before. We think it's obsolete. We also think that the state should ensure that there are career paths and training opportunities. The municipalities will continue to have a lot of influence, for example over where schools should be located, school shooting and food. But the important thing for me and the Liberals is that when it comes to teaching itself, it should be a government mission. The state is the one that specifies what to achieve and what knowledge requirements are required. Then it is also reasonable for the State to ensure that the conditions are in place to achieve this. Together with the Alliance, we have suggestions on how to improve teacher training. We Liberals think that admission requirements should be increased. It should be harder to get into that education, and you should have good grades on the subjects that you want to study to become a subject teacher. I and the Liberals believe that it is reasonable for teacher training to be concentrated in fewer places, but, for example, the educational, didactic and methodological parts of education can take place in many places. There needs to be more of craftsmanship and leadership. The very craft of being a teacher is central. Many of those who leave school, after attending a long teacher's training, do not feel well prepared enough for the classroom situation. That is where it needs to be improved.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-776	Mr President, I would like to In many ways, it sounds like the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats are very much in agreement on certain parts of the school. This concerns the improvement in the quality of teacher training. It should also be made more effective so that you do not have 28 but – as the OECD suggested – 18 areas of education. It should also be ensured that it is an equivalent education. Many of these things we fully agree on. It is good that we finally dare to take hold of the sacred cow in teacher training. Otherwise, there will never be a better result. The Swedish Democrats have also looked very much at how to equate teacher education, and that is the last question I will ask Christer Nylander. Is Christer Nylander prepared to look at the issue of a digital test on all teacher training? For example, if you study mathematics teacher training in one of the 10, 18 or 28 teacher schools, you should ensure them every year so that you get some sort of equivalence in education. I believe that the road to nationalisation will not be carried out in one term of office. It may take longer. It is a huge reform to completely shift the financial part from the municipalities to the state. Both Christer Nylander, who is a wise man, and I know that this is the case, Mr President. Then I would like to thank Christer Nylander for his good training, which means that we will take in hand afterwards, unlike some in other parties.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-781	Mr President, I would like to My upbringing has not been by myself, but by wise parents. I think you should be a little careful having simple quick fix on all the problems. I don't know if this digital evaluation thing is an idea that solves all the problems. On the other hand, I am concerned about the changes that have been made in evaluating the quality of higher education institutions. It would be incredibly unfortunate to change the system. We need a clear quality review at national level, both of teacher training as a whole and of the different subjects. It has become more difficult with the changes that this government has made in evaluating the university. I'm sorry about that. In the long term, it is probably better to ensure high quality in higher education institutions around the country and their teaching on subjects and the teacher training part than to introduce digital tests that compare things now. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have not taken a position on this issue because it has not been up to date. The most important thing is to ensure that higher education continues to have a clear focus on quality and a smaller focus on quantity. In addition, proper evaluation of the quality of all higher education institutions should be ensured. That is where success can be achieved, even in the long term.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-785	Mr President, I would like to We are dealing with the reports of the Committee on Education and Training on the education system: UbU18, 19, 20 and 22. This is a comprehensive motion report which, for practical reasons, has been divided into four parts, but which is therefore being discussed in this debate, as you have understood from previous speakers. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in all the reports, including a joint declaration on security and study. I would also like to make it clear that the committee's positions and the work of the government are aimed at raising the results of knowledge, strengthening the teaching profession and increasing equality in school. There we now see results with more employees, higher knowledge results and resources that are more widely distributed according to needs. Mr President, I would like to Since we are having strange debates about some voting for or against certain motions, it is important to spend a few minutes trying to find out what applies here in Parliament. There's quite a bit of formality here. For those who may be sitting at home looking at the debate or seeing it afterwards, it also feels important to point out how the process differs when handling motions here in Parliament against how they are handled at the local or regional level. Here in Parliament you can approve or reject a motion, but you do not answer any motions. The parties in the Riksdag conduct their politics with party movements based on individual members' movements. During the general exercise time, almost 4,000 exercise sessions are submitted each year. There may, of course, be situations where a motion raises a question that the government needs to promote. But that's not normal. In most cases work is already under way and the motion is rejected. This is the case with most of the motions for which the opposition is calling for approval here. First of all, I want to say something about it at school. Hearing the kids last autumn tell me during the # quiet class that school for many was the first place they came into contact with porn in makes me both sad and frankly also pissed off. That is totally unacceptable. Let me be clear that for the Social Democrats it is obvious that the school should be free of both pornography and violence. Students should not surf around after porn in school or risk seeing porn involuntarily. It should not be the case that children and young people use mobile phones, computers, tablets for anything other than schoolwork at school. The digital tools used in school should be provided by the school and it is also reasonable that the school's tools cannot be used for anything. This is why the government has made it clear in the new digitalisation strategy that came out last year that our schools should have a strategy for how to use the network so that opportunities are taken into account and risks avoided. And, of course, in working on that strategy, as the school leaders now do, there must be a ban on such misery as porn and violence. The government also now allocates SEK 50 million to reinforced work with sex and cohabitation education in school, this as one of many answers to what came out during the metoo. So to repeat what I said: We stand, of course, for a school free of porn, and we are in favour of schools using the tools needed to deal with this. Work towards removing porn in school is ongoing and will continue until it is away from every school in the country. Since the Prime Minister's government declaration in 2014 after the elections, the school has been in focus. What I started with – that we should raise knowledge outcomes, strengthen the teaching profession and increase equality in school – is what the government has had a focus on since the election. Let me remind you of some important things that have happened. The national collection for the teaching profession was almost the first to happen after the elections. At that time the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers gathered the trade unions and sat around the same table and discussed. What needs to be done to ensure that the teaching profession is once again attractive and sought after? And step by step steps have been taken towards improving and changing. The government has been sensitive to what the profession has highlighted. Another important piece of the puzzle was the investigation led by Björn Åstrand, which recently presented its proposals. The study is about showing how the teaching profession can gain higher status, and the main proposal is a national professional programme that should be a clear, national framework for how teachers and principals can advance in their careers through competence development and increased experience. This means that a teacher should be able to go from being a qualified teacher to becoming an experienced teacher, a qualified teacher and finally a specially qualified teacher. The study also stresses the importance of the best qualified teachers also being used for the most difficult assignments. I think these are important proposals that are long awaited by many. These two things – the national collection for the teaching profession and Åstrand's study – respond to many of the motions put forward in these reports. Cooperation for the best school is perhaps still the single best mission for which the government has set aside money. This means that the state takes greater responsibility for equivalence by the Swedish National Agency for Education offering support and advice in collaboration with the higher education institutions to those schools that have the greatest challenges and want to achieve results in the direction of the better. We Socialist members of the Education Committee have followed this initiative in particular and have visited many of the schools involved. The messages we have received are consistent: it is so good to get support and advice, and to get structure and eyes from outside that see what needs to be changed. And we see that something is happening to the results of the schools that are participating. It'll be for the better. So this is well-invested money. The appointment of a school commission – to gather leading researchers to see what needs to be done – was another important measure that the government took early in its term of office. We have now received their proposals, and a few things are already under way. We're looking at a second. One important thing going on is increased resources for schools. A total of 1 billion will already be rolled out and next year will be followed by 3.5 billion to land as much as SEK 6 billion in 2020. It is money that should be allocated based on socio-economics, i.e. those who have the greatest needs should also receive the most. That's how you change, and that's how you benefit to achieve equality. Finally, Mr President, in these motions we see many good proposals from individual Members. But most of the requests are already under way or are being further investigated.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-803	I want to ask you a question. But first I thought I'd read a text.The free choice of schools reinforces segregation and increases the gap between resource-rich and resource-weak pupils. The text comes from the party programme of the Social Democrats. I wonder why the Social Democrats do not want to scrap a non-functioning system that reinforces segregation and widens the gap between resource-rich and resource-weak pupils. Because the Social Democrats do not think that we should have a system that reinforces segregation and increases the gaps between resource-rich and resource-weak pupils?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-805	Mr President, I would like to We have said that we should retain the active school elections. You can't just back into the future. However, it is important that what we have left be fair. We know today that even if you have a school election and have it in the way that the Moderates expressed in a previous replica shift – that everyone should choose – we still have selection instruments that need to be changed. It's about getting in line already when you get out of the BB if you're going to get a place at the school where most people want to be. It is clear that you need to change the rules of governance in order for something to happen. I think, however, that it is very difficult to back down and say that we should not have a school choice when there are so many who still want it. People want to be able to choose, and then we have to make sure that if you are going to continue to make a choice, you have to be able to do so in a way that increases equivalence. We both have the same opinion about many other things, such as that the money stays in school and goes to what we think they should do. But in answer to the question, I answer that we should definitely retain an active school election. However, we need to adjust it a little. I would like to ask a question back to Daniel Riazat. It would be nice to hear what he thinks about all the bets that have been made anyway. What do you think, Daniel, is the most important thing the government has done in this time to increase equivalence?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-810	Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp! I think that many fantastic efforts have been made, and I am pleased that the government has agreed to do so when the Left Party has called for it in the negotiations. Among other things, it is about increasing resources so that the Swedish school gets more teachers, curators and people in student health and other areas. I think that's very positive, and we've been pushing for it. But this is not the answer to my question. And as I have requested a reply, I would like once again to ask my question rather than answer a counter-question. The main opponents of mine and the Left Party in the elections are the right and the extreme right. But it is still a fact that the Social Democrats write things in their party program which they then do not stand up for when they have government power. One of these questions is about the free choice of school. If we know something's wrong, and it's confirmed by all the research and by the profession, and if we're entering it through democratic decisions at our congresses, then why aren't we doing it? Gunilla Svantorp says that they follow the opinion that exists today – we don't know what it looks like tomorrow – instead of wanting something for themselves. So I thought I'd read you a piece of a speech. It says: "Political – comrades – that is to want something. Social-democratic policy is to want change because change promises improvement, nurture imagination and action, stimulate dreams and visions. But, of course, the will must have a direction and the change must be an objective. We Socialists are presumptuous enough to want something because the idea is the driving force of will and we are bold enough to wish for change because change makes utopias a reality. ..................................................... Where are the Social Democrats who existed during the time when Olof Palme gave this speech?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-816	Mr President, I would like to We are very much left, but we have moved on in life. The speech you read was given quite a long time ago. I personally think that Olof Palme is one of the biggest thinkers. Of course, many of us-- I'd say everyone-- obviously think the same thing about the school. Looking back at the entire education reform since 1842 onwards and looking at the investigations that Erlander and Palme set up, everything was constantly about breaking class patterns. At the same time, we are a party that also knows that in order for you to get somewhere, you sometimes have to reconcile. We don't control ourselves. It has been a long time since we had our own majority, and then we have to reconcile ourselves sometimes. You must then ensure that you do not compromise on what you absolutely do not want to do in order to move forward. I would have liked to hear what Daniel Riazat thinks, but I just realized that I cannot ask any further question.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-820	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really ask for a reply because of something that Gunilla Svantorp said, but for something she didn't say. After three and a half, almost four, years with a government led by the Social Democrats with the support of the Green Party, the proportion of pupils who do not pass comprehensive school is higher than ever. Nearly one student in five completes comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school. This summer alone, 18,663 people were involved. This must be classed as a capital failure of the government. How can an eight-minute speech be made in an education debate in this House without even mentioning it or presenting measures to counteract it?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-823	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out to Erik Bengtzboe that I devoted a very large part of my speech to talking about equality and to talking about all the efforts that the government has made to increase equality. One after one of these efforts, the Moderates say no to. All the proposals we have put forward are about increasing equality. You say no to Skålk ommissionen. You say 'no' to 'S' for best school, where 60 to 70 schools around the country have actually signed agreements to improve school results. You'll say no to that. Then you stand, Erik Bengtzboe, accusing me of not mentioning this in my speech. I think every one of these 18 600 students is a failure. Of course it is. This number has increased slightly during this term of office, but it was 15 000 – 16 000 when you ruled. Then there have been very many inhabitants of Sweden during this period. If you look at this number, I think it looked about the same way in the eight years you were running. And nothing happened then either. Rather, this number increased. So why do you say no to all the proposals that actually aim to do something about these 18 000 students getting by? Why do you say no to the Commission's proposal? And why don't you want to increase the number of training places?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-825	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the Alliance don't say no to everything, but we say no to what doesn't work. Perhaps it is because the Social Democrats have pursued a policy that has led to a larger proportion than ever that cannot cope with primary school, that the confidence of the opposition that your actions work is not so great. The percentage of pupils not qualified for upper secondary school has gone from 12% at its worst to 17 1⁄2 percent. That's a 50% increase. How can it be said that this is not a bad development? How can you not take responsibility for all the thousands of children involved – being stamped out as a 15-year-old and not even having the right to go to high school? How can you not see it as a problem? Mr President, I would like to With all due respect for this focus on equality. Equality is amazing. Equality is a Swedish core value which I believe everyone in this House shares with some exception. But the problem with equality is that you can have an equal society where everyone is equally ill. Referring to having a more equal school, where school results fall, is not good enough for a country that has the ambition to compete with the very best education, with high wages and with strong companies and to enable people to make class trips and develop themselves. The government can account for all its actions that are claimed to lead to equality. But where is the policy of increased knowledge, so that all students actually get better and not just more equally bad?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-829	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think it's pretty cool of Erik Bengtzboe to stand and say that everyone is getting worse in a social democratic country. Then I would actually like to ask Erik Bengtzboe to read about the story. What has happened in history since the 19th century? Who was it that was bad then? It was then a class society that we, with the Social Democratic Party, have left. Today, people have the opportunity to become something other than what they were born to, so to speak. Step by step reforms have been made all the time that have led to everyone having the same chance of getting better. What's said here about everyone getting worse doesn't make sense. Then, of course, we still have challenges. But we have also had challenges because a lot of people have come to our country at the same time. We now need to ensure that they come out into society. That is why we also say that we need to spend so much resources on school. When Erik Bengtzboes's party was in charge of this country for eight years, for example, 19 times more was spent on tax cuts than on school. Then surely one cannot say that it was better for those who were most vulnerable. They got a lot worse. To stand and say that people have had a worse time in this country when we have seen the developments that have been with us in the 19th century, in the 20th century and in the 21st century, I think it is to slip a little bit on the truth.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-834	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to discuss education policy again. It was about eight years since I last did it. That will not be so many times more, because next week I will end up as a Member. It is therefore very much to be able to debate education policy once again in this House. In order not to forget this, I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in all the reports, including the announcements that are there. If we are serious about a school that develops Sweden, that makes our country grow and that makes people, individuals and students grow, it is very important that we see the opportunities. When I listen to this debate today and hear these black and white accounts – either everything is perfect or it's carbon black – I think that reality is not black and white. The reality is more rainbow-colored, isn't it? Reality is such that we can see opportunities in everything. That is what our government has been working on, namely to try to create a school and education system based on knowledge, proven experience and science. At least that's what I missed during the alliance. When I once seriously asked Jan Björklund about a school based on science, I got the answer from the then Minister of Education that there are so many researchers and so many sciences that there is nothing to trust there. That's why this S- and MP government took a big hold on this and with the School Commission asked the research and science how to do it. It was not that we politicians just sat in a closet and looked at our party programs and began to think about what to do. We asked the research and profession – the teachers. That is what we are now working on. But it takes longer than a term of office to rebuild. It is a question of creating a different view of the school. When we discuss how to make the Swedish school better, it should be based on research and proven experience, not on our fantasies. I'm over 60 now. You want me to start thinking about what it was like when I went to school? Now I am a teacher and have worked in school a lot and have this experience. But this is still back in time. I want to look forward. I want to see what we're going to create. That's the idea of working long-term. The results don't always come fast. Then it'll take time. Now we see the government making proposals on the basis of proposals, not of nationalising but of strengthening the role of the state, of strengthening the socio-economic weight and of ensuring that the vulnerable areas, where we have the most difficult conditions in school, receive more resources than others. That is the important thing – that this is becoming a reality. I see it myself at home in Södertälje, where during the past six seven years we have had constantly improved results in our schools – in some of Sweden's poorest and most vulnerable areas – because the municipality has invested heavily. There have been two teachers in each class. It sounds really old and almost like a travesty on Kar de Mumma, who wrote Two years in each class. Instead, we invest in two teachers in each class so that the students can grow and get the support they need. But then resources are needed, and that is what has been added. Then we also have to start thinking about the basic problems we have in Sweden. One of the most serious and fundamental problems has been that we have invested too late. It is only in high school that students have received that extra support, and it is very important that that support comes earlier. There, Finland has been a pioneer country where we have seen clearly that it will be corrected from the beginning if the student receives early support. Then the student does not lose the desire, and then the student does not go over to bully rather than learn. It is very exciting that it still seems that we have now reached a consensus on the read-write-count guarantee and that we can agree. In a difficult parliamentary situation, you have to take and give. It's important, because it's about the performance of individual students – about the fate of individual students, about how they're going to pass school in the future and about how we can build future results. That takes longer than four years; it takes at least nine years before the student has finished the ninth grade, and then it's high school at it – and then college. So it is important steps for the individual that we have identified measures and are now implementing them, rather than constantly falling into black-painting. Although at first I was terribly disappointed when I heard the alliance play on professional upper secondary schools and higher education qualifications, I hope that we can find common solutions there too. It is because we need to think back; I remember hearing party friends in both the Moderates and the Center and the KD say after the 2014 elections that they realised that removing general university qualifications from professional programmes was probably wrong. Now it seems to be right. Then Jan Björklund said in Agenda, when Anna Ekström was appointed High School Minister, that he would be willing to agree to such a reform only there is the opportunity to opt out of university qualifications. Well, that's exactly what the government has presented. I do not want to dwell too much on this, but I would like to point out that I hope we can have a dialogue on these issues if the black and white approach has not taken over too much. It's when a black and white approach takes over that politics gets weird and wrong. It is important that we actually see clearly how we can build long-term strategies. This is what our government has now done – it has tried to see in the long term how we can have scientifically based experiences. How can we let them guide us into the future and let us see how our students can get a better school, so that we can raise the result in the long term? It's not a four-year perspective, it's a 12-year perspective, maybe a twenty-year perspective. What do I know? I think it is important that we think in the long term when we look at the various exercises we are dealing with. I want to add something about a completely different issue – now I change the focus completely – namely the email flood we have received in our mailboxes regarding porn-free computers. Nevertheless, I must point out that there is work going on within the government. Together with Skolverket and SKL, they are now working to ensure that porn filters are installed in all Swedish school computers. Whatever the outcome of the vote on the motion we are considering, it will not determine this, but what will determine this is that we are talking to SKL and that the government is taking the initiative. That work is ongoing. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't want porn-free computers in our schools. We should all agree on that.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-849	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for your participation in the Education Committee, Mats Pertoft! You are always very welcome back; I think most of us think so. However, I have not previously had the privilege of sitting with you so much. The Government therefore proposes that there should be no requirement to obtain the basic qualification for higher education when attending a professional programme. Rather, what the government is proposing is a system in which students should be allowed to choose whether they want it or not. The Alliance proposes a system where students should be allowed to choose whether they want it or not. The Alliance removed the requirement that all students, whether they wanted to or not and whether they wanted to do a professional career or an academic career, should enter the basic qualifications. In addition, it should be made clear that the basic eligibility applies only to about 8 per cent of the courses at the university. We did this because there was an enormous amount of drop-out from the professional programmes. The students dropped out and left, and they just referred to the fact that they thought it was too academically heavy. We did it voluntarily. In many schools, it became too complicated, and many felt that it was not practical to put things together. Therefore, the Alliance has proposed that there should be a requirement that this schematically be designed in such a way that it is a simple and accessible choice. The student should simply choose for himself, both practical and theoretical, if you want the basic university qualification or not. It is therefore exactly the same thing that the government is proposing. Don't Mats Pertoft think it's a little bit time to step down from the high horse?
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-854	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I sat on a high horse. What I did was call for dialogue. I agree with Erik Bengtzboe : Yes, the students should be able to choose. They should be able to opt out of higher education if they do not want it. That is precisely the government's proposal: the possibility of opting out. What the Alliance had earlier was that the students had to choose to, which is much more difficult. And we have seen the effect – the professional programmes have dramatically lost students. If it's because the students have chosen them out or if it's their parents who have advised them not to go, I don't know. Jan Björklund usually says that not everyone should or wants to become an academic. He's absolutely right. I totally agree with him-- not everyone should become an academic, at least not if they don't want to. But that's just it: if they don't want to. They should have the opportunity to do so, even after they have finished high school. They should have the opportunity and the entry ticket, and then they can opt it out. That is what is real freedom of choice, which I thought the Alliance stood for – freedom to choose or opt out. When you've finished high school and started a family, however, it's a pain in the ass – excuse the word – to start reading again. In fact, my oldest son did, and he had to forego quite a lot when it came to family during the years he read extra to study college qualifications. That is why it is so important that you bring the university qualification right from the start if you do not actively choose to remove it. However, according to the Government's proposal, that is what we mean by freedom of choice. It seems that what the Alliance wants to do is to abolish freedom of choice.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-858	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance has never ever proposed the abolition of freedom of choice, but the Alliance has proposed that you have exactly the right you refer to, Mats Pertoft: choosing or opting out. Then you can, so to speak, run a semantic discussion as long as you want around it, but it is de facto so that none of us want to make it mandatory. In fact, all of us want to ensure that students have that opportunity, not only theoretically but also in practice. So there is room for dialogue, but that presupposes that the government will stop deliberately misunderstanding the Alliance and our proposals. The professional programmes have lost attractiveness for decades, not only in Sweden but also in the rest of the Western world. This trend has continued even in the last period, despite the fact that the alliance government made efforts that we experienced would increase the attractiveness. Complaints against vocational programmes are that they are often too heavy academically and that they have too little connection to the labour market. This makes the students feel that they are not valuable, especially because they take a lot of energy and time and have lower status than study preparation programs. The proposal put forward by the government means that the professional programmes per coercion should be extended to 2,800 points, which means that a professional programme will automatically be more than 10 percent longer than a pre-study programme. Students sit at home at the kitchen table and think about what to choose, and when we know that the professional programmes have problems with their attractiveness, the government says that we should make it harder to go on the professional programmes. It will take longer to attend the vocational programmes – students there will take more courses than those attending the preparatory programmes. Does the government seriously believe that this will make professional programmes more attractive? When the question of what happens to those students who opt out of the freedom to have higher education qualifications is addressed to the responsible minister, the Minister answers that these students may well have hole hours, well aware that there is nothing that leads to so many dropouts as hole hours.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-864	Mr President, I would like to I still think it sounds at Erik Bengtzboe that there would be a basis for discussing these issues and how to find solutions where you can meet somewhere. We are both talking about freedom of choice. Both say he stands for freedom of choice. We can discuss whether to choose from or choose to – it concerns the semantic – but it should be possible to find a solution. Then you may have to discuss whether to find special solutions for those students who opt out. I cannot speak in favour of the minister responsible, but I can say that I think it would be interesting to hold this discussion.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-867	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Jakobsson has already expressed his support for our reservations, and I support them. First of all, I would like to reflect on what has come up in the last two speeches on pornography in school. The Swedish Democrats are, of course, totally opposed to pornography in school, but we do not believe in the idea of a national porn filter, as has been said. It doesn't work technically, and it only works partially. Students can get around this porn filter, and they also have their own mobiles in today's school. We have to trust the teachers. We simply have to rely on teachers to do the job of seeing to what the students do during school hours and breaks. I don't think there's any other way to go. I am personally a little surprised that many people are very much against pornography in school while they don't mind being painted porn on a whole house wall on Kungsholmen. There it goes past school classes as well as children's and kindergarten groups. A little reflection, please! Otherwise, I would just like to make a few points in my speech, but they are important. I'll start with religious free schools. First of all, I welcome the fact that the Social Democrats have finally woken up on this issue. However, the SD, unlike the Social Democrats, wants to stop any new establishment of religious free schools. The Social Democrats, if I have understood correctly, want to screw up the regulations around schools. This should apply to all schools, including existing schools, which today operate very well. After all, there is no reason to make it more difficult for the schools which today function well and perhaps belong to the best in the country. After all, both the best and the worst schools are probably religious free schools. The media have noted abuses in religious schools, and it has to be said that this has been done with some regularity. The last noted case was al-Azhar in Stockholm, where the staff divided boys and girls when they went on the school bus. The school inspectorate had approved the school the year before this was noted. Can we trust the school inspectorate anymore, or how should we interpret this? This was also brought to the attention of the public. Now, if the public can detect such irregularities outside the walls of the school, what is happening inside the walls of the school? The situation is now such that we say stop the establishment of religious free schools. This is a stop as if it had won the majority in Parliament could of course be circumvented, but we must start somewhere. We have a responsibility to ensure that the school law is complied with and that students are not indoctrinated at school. What happens within the walls of the home is none of our business. However, this is a 100% tax-funded activity, and we cannot allow this. We have already raised motions in the past that religious free schools must be controlled harder, as the example of al-Azhar clearly shows. We have also raised a motion that states outside the Nordic region should not be allowed to finance schools or school activities in Sweden. We do not think that someone gives money away without getting something back, and what is it when you want to get it back? One suggestion that is close to my heart is to train school staff in honor problems. The school is, of course, the authority that can detect if any girl or boy is subjected to honorary oppression. Those who can help and try to pay attention if someone is exposed are the class teachers and other school staff. In my opinion, we are, of course, going to offer them an education on the subject of oppression of honour so that they can see signs of this. It may not have to be done in all schools in all areas of our elongated country, but it is more topical in some areas. It is also a cost issue and a resource issue. Sometimes I experience politicians competing in condemning the oppression of honour. If something catastrophic happens to a girl or boy, politicians come forward, and goodwill knows no bounds. But we have to act before something happens, not after something happens. Things have already happened. Why have Sweden's results fallen in PISA and other investigations? There are probably several reasons, but I mean – and there are several others who have raised this – that the main reason is the lack of study and security in the classroom. Studying in the classroom is also the biggest difference between the school I attended at one time and the schools we have today in many vulnerable areas. Today, many ambitious students in vulnerable areas are deprived of a chance to get a good schooling and good grades due to a disturbing classroom environment. I have mentioned this with the classroom environment before, as the memory boy knows. But I've just read the book I'm holding up, the View of Knowledge and Education. It's about research. Brain researcher Martin Ingvar has written a great section in which he comprehensively describes how our brains have been programmed through evolution for thousands of years to prioritise survival. Everything else becomes a priority if a person feels threatened or insecure. It is historically this that has helped us to survive through all millennia. The same survival function is switched on for students who feel insecure or even threatened in a classroom. What does the student's brain do if it experiences insecurity in its surroundings? Of course, it is reconnected to the system that has helped us survive through all millennia. Survival comes first, learning goes far down. Many students can't learn unless they have a calm and secure classroom environment, no matter how much they want to. The Swedish Democrats have some suggestions to create a calm classroom environment, including on-call classes and more leadership training in teacher education. Mr Stefan also made some suggestions in his speech. I don't know if you remember the hearing we had in the first chamber a few weeks ago. There it was said how important it is that teachers have the ability to create peace in the classrooms. The same hearing also highlighted the importance of sufficient leadership skills in the teaching staff. Of course, these proposals alone are not enough; we need to carry out a series of reforms to restore a good study environment in our classrooms, and Stefan mentioned some of them. I think we need to start now if a lot of students, especially in our vulnerable areas, are not to be lost in the education system, because it is in our vulnerable areas that the problems are acute.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-889	Mr President, I would like to I usually do not participate in the interesting debates of the Education Committee. But I am one of the Center Party athletes behind exercise 3466 Obstacle pornography in environments with children and young people. To be an individual exercise, our proposal has attracted a lot of attention. In particular, it concerns the requirement that preschools, primary schools and secondary schools, regardless of their principal, have a tool on the computers and networks used in teaching to be used so that pornographic material from there cannot be downloaded. In addition to this, we want to promote technical solutions that hinder access to pornography for children and young people at school and give authorities the task of promoting a discussion on pornography in sex and cohabitation education. There are two clear camps which have drawn attention to this, on the one hand those who think that such a filter should be self-evident and who are almost surprised that it does not already exist and is used, and on the other hand those who believe that it is not necessary and wrongly claim that there are no such technical solutions at all and that it is technically impossible to develop them. The previous speaker was on that line and had no confidence in technology at all. I am surprised that this is causing such a debate and that the resistance is so strongly focused on technology issues. It is a relativisation of the matter against a research and evidence that proves that violent porn accounts can be harmful to children. Of course it could be. Most of the party leaders have now been very clear that they support our proposal. In this way, there should already be support for this in the Swedish Parliament. We will see what happens next Wednesday next week when it is time to vote. After all, Mr President, Members have had some time to reflect. The question we raised in our exercise took a new turn in the autumn, when metoo asked questions about men's behaviour towards women and their proven exposure to sexual abuse early in the age group. The cry silently gathered 200 testimony about abuse, harassment and sexism from schoolmates and teachers already at very low ages. I also believe that the attention given in recent weeks to the responsibilities and actions of major network operators has raised new questions about what is available to download on the network and the purposes for which they are available. Mr President, I would like to Now I sound like a conservative moral preacher, something I'm not. I am a man and have been interested in porn, although long before it became available via digital channels. It's not that I don't like everything I see. On the other hand, I have become aware of the circumstances in which the so-called actors act and what they are exposed to both financially and physically, mentally and medically to be able to act in such productions. Nor should you compare the 70's happy porn of varying quality or the men's magazines' mid-views with what is currently accessible by just entering the keyword amply into Google's search engine. I refer to myself as a liberal, which means that I think that even materials that can be questioned morally and ethically should be available to anyone who wants to see it. But it also means that it should be free and possible for those who do not want to see it blocked. Above all, people who are underage, children, should be able to be prevented from seeing things that they cannot understand and are not mature for. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the Center Party's reservation 27 in UbU18 and also of reservation 24 in UbU20, so it is done. Of course, whether it is appropriate for young people early in the age to witness gross pornography can differ. What has become clear now is how it affects their attitudes and behaviours and that dependence on pornography is established at very low ages. Consumption of porn lowers the thresholds for what you experience as exciting and increases the demands of girls on what they should have to stand on and endure in a sexual relationship with a guy.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-899	More and more young girls report that they have been subjected to rape and sexualized violence. According to the Council's security investigation, the proportion of young people exposed to sexual offences has doubled during the course of one year. These are, of course, figures that give rise to a particular debate. Behind each percentage there are also a large number of girls, individual girls, who have received physical and psychological but from an abuse committed by a boy who is known or unknown to them. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, the average age is 12 years for boys to watch porn for the first time. Research shows that the sooner it happens, the harder it becomes for them to feel intimacy, to have an empathic attitude, and to feel sorry for a young woman who has been subjected to sexual violence or rape. Porn also helps girls see themselves as passive recipients in sexual relations and sees it as their task to build up on oral or anal sex and be beaten and exploited without any expectation that they themselves will feel any pleasure and enjoyment of sex. Does it help to install porn filters in schools? Yes, we know that 50% of schools today have a filter of some kind, while the rest of the schools lack it completely. Many object that it is easy for those who want and can get past the firewalls and disconnect the software that scans the input of data. Yeah, maybe that's the way it could be. That is precisely why both technological development and discussion are needed in schools, combined with a focus on what students are using their computers and tablets for. The Center Party believes that the best must not be the enemy of the good and that a filter is better than nothing at all. It is also worth considering what it means to prevent students or even preschool children from being accidentally exposed to something that older students or staff have sought out and that may be just a mouse click away for the child who then sits down at the computer. The Norwegian Parliament has decided on porn-free schools, and a broad consensus has been set up to investigate the impact of porn on children's and young people's health. I find it hard to believe that relationships differ, so we can follow our neighbor country there. Anyone who has read books on the subject, such as VisualDrog, and who follows # porn-free childhood learns that the sexualised violence online affects both girls and boys in such a way that it takes very long for them to get a normal view of sex and cohabitation, where they can feel a reciprocity and enjoy together. It helps to strengthen traditional gender patterns and move us back centuries in our view of sex, gender equality and the rights of LGBTQ people. Mr President, I would like to What Parliament can vote for here is a first but important step that forces all schools, including those who do not want to, to do something to protect children. I think it is worth taking the risk of not following an out-of-date party line and how it is usually done, but rather following his party leader on these issues and approving reservation 27 in report UbU18. Gunilla Svantorp's speech can be interpreted as an excuse or a defence speech for something you should have done but have not done. Regret and shame are the first things I think about. And what is going on, according to Mats Pertoft, is just talk, not concrete action. How it usually is, practice, is not the same as formality. There is no obstacle to following one's heart or political convictions during the vote on Wednesday.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-908	Mr President, I would like to It is a broad school debate we are having tonight with four reports gathered in a debate. I hope to replace Annika Eclund, who is our representative in the Education Committee but who has been prevented from attending. There is limited time, so I will make some impact in these four reports. I was going to start in one of the most important factors for the students' study results, namely the teachers. In order to ensure a high quality of teachers, the teaching profession must be made more attractive so that pupils have improved teaching and thus better opportunities to achieve their national goals and good results. In order for the school to deliver high knowledge results and maintain a high level of equivalence, both the experienced teachers want to stay and develop the profession and the teacher education is considered attractive among the students. One measure needed to make the profession more attractive is to provide qualitative training supported by research. In too many schools, continuing training is offered that is funded from public funds but where there is no scientific support for continuing education, which can at worst adversely affect the quality of teaching. The school's public-funded training needs to be better examined so that it is guaranteed to be based on scientific evidence and proven experience. The Christian Democrats think that the professional programmes that are now being worked on look promising in terms of steering up the training of teachers. Mr President, I would like to It is also important that teachers have good development opportunities and that the best teachers can be rewarded in terms of pay. The career teacher reform established first teachers as a new career step for teachers while introducing state grants for schools setting up first teachers' and lecturers' services. This reform has now been evaluated, and it has been shown that school leaders have put in place systems which vary widely in terms of the criteria for appointment, specification of tasks and the duration of the appointment as first teachers. There is a lack of uniform criteria for who gets to be the first teacher, and ambiguities on this point cause, quite understandably, dissatisfaction in the workplace. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the state needs to take a clearer approach in order to adapt the career teacher reform to the diversity of principals within the school system. It is reasonable that the principals continue to be responsible for the appointment of first teachers. However, for first teachers as well as for lecturers, the State should define the criteria and the process of appointment and specify and define the tasks to be included in the employment and the duration of the service. Mr President, I would like to In 2011, the methods used by schools to combat bullying were evaluated. Unfortunately, it turned out that no programme was up to date and that some programmes could even have the opposite effect. The Christian Democrats therefore want a follow-up to the now seven-year-old evaluation and for recommendations to the school leaders on which programmes can be used against bullying. In addition, all methods that are not based on science and proven experience should cease to be used. The school should of course be a safe and secure place for our children and young people where there is zero tolerance note violations of all kinds. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Christian Democrats support all their reservations in the four reports, but for time we are only calling for reservation 19 in the UbU19 and reservation 16 in the UbU20.
i-HV51VrVB4NXmYYVzVot4ke	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 27 in UbU18 by Ola Johansson and others. One in five children will be subjected to sexual abuse before the 18th anniversary, and the public place where the most girls are subjected to sexual harassment is the school. Pornography consumption makes the male consumer more sexually aggressive and creates attitudes that promote or trivialise violence against women. Children's porn consumption is an escalating social problem. The earlier boys consume porn, the harder it becomes for them to feel intimacy, and they learn an unhealthy connection between violence and sex and the ability to build sustainable relationships. Some 50 percent of the country's municipalities still lack protection tools on computers and networks in schools so that pornographic material is filtered out. Therefore, the parental appeal during the hashtag # porn-free childhood with 27 500 signatures requires a new law that limits the presence of porn in preschool and school. I would like to pay a big tribute to Elsa Lantz and Jenny Holmström in the hashtag # porn-free child justice for their efforts and wish them not only good luck, but we fight together for the children's sake. There are 1.2 million families in Sweden with children under the age of 16. Even the children have expressed that they do not want this in schools. Now that we all know after the hashtag # silent class and a series of reports that today's violent online pornography is harmful to children's health, should we not start to work preventively with something as basic as porn-free working environments for children and young people in preschool and school? It's the least we can do. Mr President, I would like to As a Member of Parliament, a teacher, a father and a grandfather, I want to lift this up, and I do so with my party in a somewhat unusual measure. At the vote in the Riksdag next Wednesday, we will support the individual reservation of the Center's Ola Johansson and others. Such reservations are usually voted down, but this calls for pornographic material to be filtered out in preschools and schools. Other parties may speak for themselves. It is my hope that all parties will join us in full so that we will have a majority in the Riksdag and thus give a mandate to the government to take action. What does the government really do? Nothing. I recently had a debate with the Minister of Justice in the Chamber. He referred to the fact that it was not a government issue. That's, I mean, a way of dissipating a responsibility that applies to our children. I think everyone feels the same about this, but the political will and energy are lacking in the government and in a number of parties in the Swedish parliament. I can only appeal to all Members of Parliament to vote with heart and conviction for all of Sweden's children and grandchildren. Come on, now we have the chance to make a concrete contribution for the children in the country's schools! Show courage and support reservation about porn free environments in preschool and school on Wednesday! We Christian Democrats will do that.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-929	Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation. I'll try to keep it short, because some people might have plans to fit tonight. The issue has been raised through a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. Exercise on these reports is not common, but here we thought it went too far. I have read a number of reports from the Swedish National Audit Office over the years, and this is the worst sawing I have ever seen. We must react when there are such cuts, otherwise we might as well close the National Audit. There was a great riot when they were in a windstorm themselves at the National Audit Office a couple of years ago, if you remember that. Compare what happened at the Swedish National Audit Office with what has been going on for many years at the Samikollstyrelsen! According to the report – as we have heard from several quarters – the Sami Board of Directors has had a completely unacceptable development of costs in recent years. They have not been able to account for the reasons behind this trend in costs, in no way. The accounting of spent funds is below all criticism, or simply non-existent. I take the liberty of giving parts directly from the report: The Authority finds it difficult to meet the essential requirements of a State authority.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-937	中 Sami pupils in the Sami school risk not having sufficient conditions to achieve the goals of the education. The low level of compliance is due to shortcomings, both in the work of the agency and in the government's governance of the agency. I suppose there should be pluralism there – the governments – because there are several governments that have ruled during this time. 中 Indications that students do not reach sufficient knowledge of the topic Sami are also not a new observation, but were already observed in 2003 by the Swedish National Agency for Education. Several development areas identified by the Swedish National Agency for Education in 1994 and 2003 still persist. Finally, despite the fact that the Sami Board's difficulties in achieving its objectives and carrying out its tasks have been known for a long time, in many cases decades, the government has failed to translate these knowledge into proper governance of the Authority. The government – I suppose it should be the governments – has not managed to carry out effective governance within the framework of the current structure nor to propose a new one. This was just an ax pick. There are so many such cuts. Now we think it has to be enough simply. We suggest that the Sami Board be transferred to the National Agency for Education. We're pretty sure that's the best solution. There are also thoughts that we could have some form of Nordic cooperation about the Sami schooling. Norway has performed much better than Sweden on this issue. The main thing, however, is that the Board of Sameskolans is closed down and that the activities are fundamentally redesigned. This simply cannot be allowed to continue any longer.
i-0776aabb1a80db6c-942	Mr President, I would like to We have to consider the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Sami education. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state efforts for Sami education carried out by the Sami Board of Directors and notes, among other things, that the number of pupils in the Sami school has been low and that the number of students studying Sami has decreased over the past ten years. It is also found in the letter that the achievement of the target is low, which is thought to be due both to shortcomings in the Sami Board of Directors and to the government's control of the Authority. The government agrees with its response that the current governance of the activities of the Sami school board is unclear and not entirely appropriate. However, it also points out that the activities of the Sami school board are complex and that the issue of headship should be considered. The Government considers that measures have been taken that are in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. Among other things, on 30 March 2017, an investigator was appointed to undertake a broad review of the division of responsibilities between and the organisation of the authorities in the field of schools with the aim of creating a more appropriate public authority structure that can contribute more effectively than today to a better school. There has also been a closer follow-up in recent years through dialogue and review of the Sameskolstyrelsen's finances and work processes. I would like to endorse what the committee proposes, namely that the Parliament submits to the Committee the Government's letter on the National Audit Office's report on Sami training, in which it agrees with the Government's assessment of the measures that need to be taken in response to the review report.
