i-79cedf09a470cfdc-1	Madam President, I would like Many of us who discussed healthcare issues during the past election movement and many who followed healthcare issues in the media could easily get the impression that everything in Swedish healthcare is wrong and that nothing works. It is a bit boring, because if you go beyond the media picture and think about what it actually looks like in Swedish healthcare, you can see that we have a fantastic care that is carried out by the employees in healthcare. I think there are reasons for us sometimes not only to see the problems and challenges. We should also consider when magazines such as the famous American medical journal The Lancet note that Swedish health care is ranked in place four. There are reasons for us in Sweden to straighten our backs and sometimes say that we get very good health care for our tax money. I think that there is reason for us to straighten our backs when we can see that the mortality rate in cardiovascular diseases has halved over the last 20 years. I think that there is reason for us to straighten our backs when we realise that five years of survival is greatly increasing for many of the cancers. Regardless of which party we belong to, I think there is reason for all of us to be proud of the work that has been going on in cancer care when it comes to standardised healthcare processes. It is a work that was started by former Minister of Social Affairs Göran Hägglund. The work has continued in the county councils and has been very good. Of course, there are also challenges and concerns. We have concerns about accessibility. We have concerns about the response. We have concerns when it comes to getting healthcare professionals to stay in the major emergency hospitals. We also have great concerns when it comes to equality. I find it shameful when the National Board of Health and Welfare has figures that show that the really big challenge in terms of equal care may not be about regional differences, but above all about socio-economic differences. It's upsetting. Although regional disparities are a problem, what the National Board of Health and Welfare shows about, among other things, regional differences and over-mortality is a source of thought. If we had as high a mortality rate in cancer diseases as in Sweden's three best county councils, we could have avoided 830 deaths a year. Looking at socio-economic differences, it can be said that if we had as low mortality as among the 10 per cent with the highest level of education in Sweden, we would eliminate 2,090 deaths a year in the country. If we look at the same figures for cardiovascular care, we see that the regional difference in excess mortality is 2,060 people. It's way too much. We could have avoided 2,060 deaths if we had had the same health care in all county councils in the country. Had we been able to tackle the socio-economic differences, the class differences, in mortality, we could have saved more than 6 000 lives a year. One of the biggest challenges in Swedish healthcare in the future is to bring about better and more equal care for everyone in our country regardless of where we live and regardless of the social class we belong or what background we have. We need to work much more to bring about better treatment and more accessible healthcare for citizens. I believe that the work that Anna Nergård is doing is absolutely crucial in terms of close care and ensuring that we get a primary care that works better. Then we can also have a health care system that is not only world-class but also lifts to even better levels.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-10	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Dag Larsson for a speech that points to all the positive and what fantastic medical care we have. I am particularly pleased that he highlights the first national cancer strategy developed under the Alliance Government and Göran Hägglund. It has meant a great deal to Swedish cancer care. I also share the view that the large socio-economic differences that exist and which, among other things, the National Board of Health and Welfare points out, are not acceptable. This is a common challenge for us to work with in the coming time when it comes to Swedish healthcare. However, we have a situation where the medical queues have become dramatically long during the Red-Green Government. I would like to ask Dag Larsson how he views that question. What do we do to shorten the lines?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-13	Madam President, I would like The growing queues are a huge challenge. But you should still have with you that the queues started to grow as early as 2013, in the old queue billions time. However, it is not acceptable that we have growing queues in Sweden. It is both about how we organise care and about the health resources that are actually available. Unless otherwise, we face very tough challenges in the coming years. Demography will change greatly with an increasing number of people who, fortunately, live ever longer in our country. We have an explosion of 80-plusers in Sweden. Health care and resources must be strongly strengthened in the future. If we do not, we will have growing queues in Sweden, whether we work with the old queue billions or not.
i-44xEez5jhaWum6Vzy1ahaq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Dag Larsson. After a term of office of 60 billion in increased taxes and 100 billion in cost increases, we have had a more than doubled health care queue situation. We have tripled queues in child and youth psychiatry. We know that the queue billion effectively shortened the queues during the time of the alliance government. I would like to ask Dag Larsson a question. Is it not the case that we need to reintroduce a cue billion, albeit an improved, deeper and more pointed one?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-18	Madam President, I would like I certainly believe that one can reintroduce a cue billion, but I do not think that solves the problem. There are other things that need to be done to actually remove the queues. I note that the queues started to grow in Sweden already during the old queue billions of years. I note that here in Stockholm, in Stockholm County Council, boasts and claims to have the country's shortest waiting times, they work with a concept called patient-elected waiting. All county councils do. In the kingdom, on average, there is a patient-elected waiting for 4 percent. In Stockholm you have a patient-elected waiting for 12%. Stockholm County Council is not the best in the country but is actually 7 per cent if you count in the same way for all county councils.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-21	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago we received an election result, and we are still waiting for what the result will be in terms of government. In the results for county councils and regions there was quite a big change. The poll also showed and confirmed what previous measurements have shown, namely that health care was one of the most important issues of the election. Stefan Löfven wanted a referendum on welfare, and we can say that he did. The election was a strong rejection of social democratic health policy. The Social Democrats lost their mandate in 19 out of 21 county councils and regions. This is because the voters were not given what they wanted, namely on time and of high quality. The fact that people are forced to wait in queues and that diversity is often replaced by stupidity has led voters to turn their backs on social democratic solutions and seek new ways. Despite 60 billion in tax increases and 100 billion in cost increases, under the red-green government we have had doubled care queues and triple queues for child and youth psychiatry. The situation in cancer care is totally unacceptable. Stefan Lövven's promise that no cancer patient would have to wait more than four weeks has been grossly betrayed. Today, more than 10 000 cancer patients are waiting for care within the healthcare guarantee. The resource enhancement does not help without the right direction and focus. When the alliance government took over Sweden had long medical queues. 130,000 people were waiting in medical lines. In 2014, that figure was down to 52,000. The situation was radically improved. After four years of red-green rule, we'll be there again. People don't get care on time, they have to wait in line. The red-green government took away the cue billion. Among other things, the Agency for Health and Care Analysis is very clear that the sharply increased queues and the removal of queue billions of people agree on time and are related to each other. We Moderates now want, together with the rest of the Alliance, to reintroduce the queue billions, but a deeper, broadened and sharper one. We Moderates want to develop the queue billion to 3 billion, of which half a billion is dedicated specifically to child and youth psychiatry and half a billion to cancer care and the increased queues there. Unlike before, return visits and rehabilitation should now be included, not least to meet patients who are long-term ill and chronic. X-rays and laboratories shall also be included. In addition, a sharp reinstated guarantee of care in child and youth psychiatry should be provided. Our children and young people must receive timely support and help. We have proposals that link, among other things, support for student health and support for suicide research. With further proposals on, among other things, fixed doctors for greater security through continuity and less administration, proposals that strengthen the healthcare staff, a new updated cancer strategy and care that meets our old multisickness and chronicles, we are now ready to shoulder responsibility for Swedish healthcare, out in the country's county councils and regions as well as nationally.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-29	Madam President, I would like Camilla! I think we all need to go back to our chambers and think about the outcome of the elections and the reasons for that. I would like to hear you reflect for a moment on how it could be that the Moderates decreased by 5.88 percentage points in their display window in Swedish healthcare policy, i.e. Stockholm County Council. That is very remarkable, given that you have been in charge there and have such a fantastic health policy overall. I would like to hear a reflection on how it could be that the Moderates made such a terrible choice in Stockholm County Council. I would also like to hear a reflection on how it might be that 12% are in patient-elected waiting in Stockholm. The national average is 4 percent.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-31	Madam President, I would like It is great that we have received some county politicians from Stockholm County who know how to draw a grindstone. They also have the opportunity to point out that there is a much greater opportunity to choose here in Stockholm. Had the situation looked like this throughout the country, especially in the county councils and regions that have been governed for many and long years by social democrats, I think that many people around Sweden would have been quite happy about what the queues looked like and above all about the diversity when choosing. It is wonderful that for Stockholmers it is Stockholm that is the window. For example, we hillbillys point to the county council in Halland as one of our shop windows. There we have Sweden's shortest queues, and we continue to have that. We probably need a little greater humility, Dag Larsson, in view of the situation and the landscape that has changed, not least in the previously very sharp red county councils.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-34	Madam President, I would like I can't help it if I'm a stockholmer. It's easy for me to talk about my hometown. But I can probably turn to Västra Götaland, another county council where Camilla's party has had some influence and where one can see that the queues have grown. About 25 per cent of the newcomers in the country's care queues come from a single county council, the moderate-controlled Västra Götaland. It may say that it is a little more complicated than that it is only red county councils that cannot do the job. The queues are growing, even where moderate county politicians are responsible for health care. I think you can reflect on that for a while.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-35	Madam President, I would like Yes, there is every reason to reflect on the situation, but by all means without assigning the entire responsibility to the fact that we took over a very strained situation in Västra Götaland. We have problems all over the country. I would also like to link this to the clear phasing out of the queue billions, because it has affected the situation in both red and blue county councils. We need to provide resources and introduce a clear governance model where we have focus and follow up the queues, so that we can link policies at regional and national level.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-37	Madam President, I would like It's good to see you again, Camilla! You talk a lot about the cue billion, which somehow will conjure up the staff. But you hardly ever mention the staff issue. You can look all over the country, not just in Stockholm, and see that the staff are fleeing. It's specifically about the emergency hospitals. It's about the staff having had enough of poor wages, lousy schedules and a work environment that doesn't work. I will also highlight the county council in my home district Stockholm County. Every day you can read about what happens to the staff situation there, for example at the New Karolinska Hospital – where there is also national targeted healthcare, not true – and the Södersjukhus Hospital. But you from the right hand side hardly ever mention the staff. I find that odd. Who's going to fix this when you present this cue billion? Who's going to take care of the queue billion you're going to rig when the staff have escaped?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-39	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for that question, because nothing could be more wrong. I choose to have a certain focus on my speech. Later, other moderate speakers will highlight this issue very clearly, I can tell you. The staff has been in great focus for us. A major common concern is the need to ensure that we have sufficient competence in Swedish healthcare. We have presented a programme that includes, among other things, skills enhancement strategies. We must also take responsibility for salaries, not least for those people, such as nurses, who are being overtaken by recent graduates. People who have been loyal to care for many years today look past, and that is a problem that we generally have in common.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-41	Madam President, I would like Camilla! Look at what the profession thinks about the cue billion! Ask the Health Care Association and the Medical Association! It's not like they're standing on the barricades doing the wave. They highlight the staff situation as the big problem throughout Sweden, don't they? In order to have reasonable working hours and a better working environment for staff, it is also necessary to have a resource allocation that goes to the entire health care system and becomes reasonable. What do you have to say about that?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-43	Madam President, I would like Apart from the fact that the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis is very clear in its analysis of queue billions, when I travel around the country there is a fairly varied picture from the health care staff of whether the queue billions worked or not. It is very clear that the situation is that it is not working right now. We see increased sick leave rates due to staff feeling very bad in a situation where patients have to wait so long for care.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-45	Madam President, I would like There's uncertainty in the country right now. Then I am thinking not of the government issue, but of the uncertainty that prevails in Swedish welfare. It is a welfare that generations before us have worked hard for and built and which we take for granted many times today. We see it as a given that there should be a certain safety net and help when we need it most. Unfortunately, it does not always look like that today. People die waiting for surgery. People are sent home from healthcare due to lack of space or staff. People live in constant uncertainty if they can get the help they really need. Here I am thinking not least of people with disabilities and their relatives, people in need of community support and people in need of LSS support. The LSS is the biggest reform of freedom that we have done for the downgraded of our country and perhaps even in the world. Unfortunately, however, it is a reform that is being seen today as being eroded. I would venture to go so far as to say that the reform today is under threat. There have been columns of horrifying and bizarre stories about how people have been affected by the savings and legal arguments that have been made in recent years. It's not just stories, it's stories from real life. Severely ill children who cannot breathe for themselves and suffer from severe epileptic seizures are denied or are being assisted. Families are forced to take on an overpowering responsibility, a responsibility far beyond what normal parental responsibility requires. Here we are talking about children who require constant supervision, because otherwise they risk suffocating to death. How can we in Sweden 2018 not consider this an absurdity beyond all borders? The LSS is not only a reform of freedom but also a law of rights. Try that word a little. It's a law of rights. Nevertheless, people do not get the help they need. I do not think it is worthy of the Swedish welfare society. Right now, Madam President, an LSS investigation is under way. Unfortunately, it is a highly criticised one. It is not only because many have considered it a waste of time, but also because of the proposals leaked from the investigation. Now it is precisely proposals that have been leaked. Maybe you shouldn't stand and speak until you get a picture together. After all, it is very easy to say no to changes that don't sound so good without actually knowing what will be offered instead. However, on the basis of the facts I have today, I can say that the Swedish Democrats will not support the proposals. We mean, of course, that LSS should be modernised and developed. But we want to see an LSS support where individuals get the support they need based on their needs. Of course, we're going to have a law that's the same for everyone, no matter where in the country you live. However, this does not mean that there should be a template for the support to be provided. What takes 10 minutes for someone takes maybe 20 minutes for someone else. Nor do we want to see parents being forced to leave their children in institutions or other housing simply because of a lack of help. We do not want to see a situation where people do not dare to seek extra help when extra needs have arisen in fear of ultimately getting less help just because someone chose to interpret the legal situation a little differently. We can't have it like that. The law must be rewritten and made clearer. To remedy the uncertainty that many today feel, we need to have a long-term perspective. It can't be reasonable for these people to have a lump in their stomach every year it's an election year. We need to agree on a long-term basis across all borders. It shouldn't be controversial. No sensible person, and not even those who claim to be decent, may feel that today's situation is good.
i-a7ZwpHVjTtn9cF1Yy1NZ6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, for your speech. I can also sign that we must have a working LSS. We have discussed this quite seriously in the last parliamentary term. Carina Ståhl Herrstedt knows as well as I do that it is due to the failure to deal with certain problem areas for perhaps ten to fifteen years. There is now free legal leeway for interpretation. We have an ongoing investigation that will be presented in a couple of months. Let us look seriously at the proposals and see what is good. I'm not going to comment on so-called leaks. I have no idea what the investigator has said, and neither does our department. Our spirit is that the LSS intentions apply, Carina. My question is then: how do the Swedish democrats view it in the future?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-62	Madam President, I would like I did not quite understand your question, Mikael Dahlqvist, about how we view LSS's intentions in the future. That is really what my entire speech was about. We must first ensure that the original intentions of the law are upheld. That is exactly what my speech was about. I'm not talking about the leaks either. I was also very clear about that in my speech. I want to wait and see the overall picture of what you come up with. I think that we should return to intentions as a first step. Then we also need to look at and modernise the law so that it responds to the needs that exist today.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-65	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt! In your speech, you said no to the leaked proposals. How serious is it? Neither you nor I have any idea what the investigation is gathering their ideas on. That's the thought I had. Let us take this issue seriously and come back to us when we have a basis so that we can make a good solution for all those affected.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-66	Madam President, I would like That's exactly what I'm saying, Mikael Dahlqvist. You can't stand here and speak. But on the basis of the information and facts I have today, I cannot say yes to that. But I also stress the importance of seeing the overall proposal. You have to know what's on offer instead of what you take away. You can't just say no. We need to know what's on offer. That's exactly what I'm saying. But I understand you're taking the chance to get up in the debate and say something.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-68	Madam President, I would like As a nurse, I am pleased that much of the recent debate has been about care and care. I look forward to deepening, broadening and developing this debate during both the Social Committee and this House's term of office. Swedish healthcare is amazing in many ways. Every day, health care employees make great efforts for many people and especially for our elderly. But Swedish healthcare is facing major challenges. During the previous term of office, we have received alarming reports of growing care queues, reduced accessibility, insecurity among the elderly, lack of doctors and nurses. The list can be made long. In Skåne, care queues and waiting for surgery have increased significantly. The red-green majority has stood up to the situation. It is a handshake that ultimately also affects patients. We have seen the same prowess in the Red-Green Government, which has not carried out the reforms so badly needed to break the trend. I think we are facing a watershed in Swedish welfare. Either one dares to embark on a new path in which one welcomes with curiosity new reforms, more actors, digitalisation and new thinking. Or you close your eyes to the problems, say no, shoot more money and continue in the same rut as today. I know which way I want to go. One of the first reforms we need to implement is a primary care reform. A well-developed and accessible primary care is the basis for a functioning healthcare system. By strengthening primary care, we get more accessible care throughout the country, and we relieve specialist care and provide security for the patient. Not least, security, accessibility and continuity are important for our elderly and multi-sickness. As a nurse, I am a little bit excited about our elderly, and I think it is time to involve this group even more in the discussion about the future of care and care. The main cause of the problems in Swedish primary care is the lack of a permanent doctor. Despite a high medical density in Sweden, doctors are missing from the health centres. But the problems can be solved. This shows, not least, the development in Norway, which has gone from the fact that only half the population has had a permanent doctor's contact to that almost everyone has it today. One of the most important changes that gave Norway a strong primary care is that doctors have been given the opportunity to run their own businesses on a small scale. Norway has dared to affirm how the public and private sectors together can develop healthcare. We must do the same. We must welcome entrepreneurship and enable small care units to start up and establish themselves. By allowing small person-owned health centres, it can become attractive for Swedish doctors to work in primary care, thereby increasing access and choice. A small activity provides continuity in the meeting between the patient and the doctor, while at the same time giving the doctor more opportunities to influence his/her work situation. I know it can accept purely ideologically, but it is time to bring prosperity into the future. And the best way to do that is to have the courage to open up to more actors to be able to make the development journey together. During the last term of office, I was involved in developing the strategy The good aging in my home municipality Östra Göinge, Skåne's green heart. The picture that emerged during the interviews that we conducted is clear: Older people want freedom of choice. You want to be able to choose which health centre you want to go to, and you want to choose who comes and helps you in the home. The freedom of choice and the choice of different actors in the welfare field are here to stay. I know which way I want to go. Now is the time for all of us to choose the path.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-80	Madam President, I would like I have to ask Sofia Nilsson a question. You're talking about more actors. We already have this in the so-called health market. The problem is that it is not the small actors, the non-profit companies, who have the grip on Swedish healthcare. Instead, it is the big dragons like Capio, who will soon be sold, Aleris, Praktikertjänst and so on. Don't you think you have to re-arrange a little to get the small players to come up on the market? They can be cooperative, non-profit and so on. We do not have such things in Sweden to a large extent, but we are stuck in the grip of the great dragons. When it comes to healthcare in Stockholm, for example, which I think has been the window, it does not swarm with non-profit companies. There it is the great dragons who have the grip.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-83	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question! This is exactly what we need to change. We need to reform primary care so that we can release even the smaller units. I think that Norway has been an example of how the situation can be resolved. There we can see that there are doctors who have been able to start smaller care units in the countryside in private. The choice and attractiveness of setting up smaller units in smaller villages and further rural areas has been increased. The problem today is that a large amount of capital is needed to start a health centre. You paint a threat picture that it is the great dragons that are dangerous. But it is only those who have been able to start a health centre! By reviewing the system and opening up so that more and less players can start their own unit where we do not have the requirements to have all the different professions – that can be arranged in a collaboration instead – we could see more smaller units in larger parts of the country.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-86	Madam President and Sofia Nilsson! I do not think that it is only by bringing in more private actors that you get primary care started. It is about rigging the entire Swedish healthcare system, finding specialists, expanding health centres and so on. It is something that we all want; we want primary care and health centres that really work, that can receive quickly and that can do more than they can today. But then it takes so much more. This is a transformation of the entire health care system that is not solved at all simply because you have private actors. It's going to other things, like resources, for this.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-88	Madam President, I would like That's the problem. I certainly do not think that we can change the health crisis by magic, because it has been built up for a long time. But if we talk to the doctors who are specialists, general practitioners and so on, we hear that it is this development they want to see. They want a smaller unit that they can operate on their own. They want continuity with their patients. They want to be able to start their own care unit, and they want to be able to control their own time. Then I think we should give them the chance and the opportunity to start these smaller units.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-90	Madam President, I would like The French care giant Ramsay Générale de Santé will in all likelihood buy the care company Capio. The company is a major player in the health care market. With 120 hospitals and over 23,000 employees, it is the largest owner of private hospitals in France. One might think that Capio is about healthcare. No, this is about shares and sales of the company. In the new bid level prior to the sale of the entire company, Capio is now valued at SEK 8.2 billion. It's not small nails. Of course, the Board recommends that the shareholders say yes to the offer. You could say: thank the taxpayer for a good dividend to the shareholders! Profits in welfare – that's what you earn. Is there a limit? Could Saudi Arabia also buy Capio? Are we going to have it like this? Where is political governance? Are the politicians sitting in the gallery and letting the market take over? Capio is a giant in the Swedish healthcare market. They had a return of 15 per cent of invested capital in 2016. It is higher than what Nordea has. Capios mission as a limited liability company is not primarily to protect patients and well-being, but its shareholders – like any limited liability company. With the acquisition of Capio, the big French care giant will have a unique position in Europe. At the same time, there is not a single word in the media about patients, healthcare development or welfare. It is about business and how to do business with the tax-funded funds. Healthcare professionals within the Capio Group could read in the newspaper that they would soon be working in a French giant company. Who cares about the staff when billions are at stake and the shareholders tremble at getting their profits home? As left-wingers, we see the absurdity of such a large part of the health care system being out for stock market sales. We do not think that healthcare should be like any other market. In the longer term, you can bring in companies that have an agenda to build up a completely private healthcare system to which only those who have specific health insurance can apply. The health giant Ramsay Générale de Santé today delivers completely privately funded care in France. Of course they see this possibility also in Sweden; otherwise they would not go into the store. Health care companies interact with the large insurance companies, which today provide 700 000 people with private health insurance. The market exists, and with right-wing politicians in power, it is this development that we are seeing. It's about making money out of medical care. Anyone who can afford to pay for a private health insurance for surgery and care will, of course, be ahead of those with a lower income. This goes completely against the Swedish Health Care Act. It is high time to limit the influence of industry, i.e. insurance companies and health companies on Swedish healthcare. We need to build health care that is equal and accessible and where the focus is on staff and patients – not the profits for shareholders.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-99	Madam President, I would like I must thank Karin Rågsjö for the opportunity to have an ideologically driven discussion here. That is a good thing, and it is clear that Karin Rågsjö's speech here provoked not only me but also several other Members of this House. And that is not surprising because the honourable Member is once again fighting against the diversity and freedom of choice in healthcare, which is appreciated by so many patients and by so many employees in healthcare. In my world, employees who are dissatisfied with their employers can change employers – but not in Karin Rågsjös. Why is the Left Party not interested in better monitoring quality and having tougher demands on all performers instead of unilaterally focusing on chasing private entrepreneurs who want to contribute to developing the Swedish healthcare system?
i-VdicbANxNgR9fqvV1ArjRo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the question! Capio is not just any small private doctor who has a clinic. It's not non-profit. This is about a giant company now bought up, just like I talked to you about, by a French health care giant who is also anchored in Australia. Where do you think the interest lies in this? What is the first mission of a limited company? That's making money for the shareholders and giving them a return. Of course it is. And why do you think this company is entering the Swedish health market now? Do you think they are thinking about Ramsay Générale de Santé that they will fix Sweden's welfare? No, they think like this: Here there is an opening for the total private hospitals. That's their concept. Can't you see that? We also want a diversity of smaller companies, of non-profit companies. I don't think these listed giants have anything to do on this market... because it's become a market.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-103	Madam President, I would like Business Economy lesson 1A is that you can only make a profit if you have satisfied customers and if you can conduct a business that someone is willing to demand and pay for in the long term. A stock company cannot possibly deliver the profits that the honourable Member is talking about if it does not deliver high-quality care in the long term. I believe that this company is capable of doing so, and if it is not the government should set tough quality standards and also have the opportunity to shut down the company. But why isn't the Left Party making any proposals to increase governance or improve quality?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-104	Madam President, I would like If you look deep into our papers, Johan, you will see that we have a lot about quality and so on. Now I am talking about what we have in front of us in Sweden and what developments we can see in health care. Capio itself surely has a number of good healthcare companies. They are a limited company now sold to a French giant specializing in private care. What's the signal, do you think? Unfortunately, you cannot answer that, I realize, but it gives the signal that here is a chance to carve even more gold for those who sell health insurance.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-105	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Karin Rågsjö, who raises a very important question. First of all, I would like to ask Karin Rågsjö a question about how to define a large part of the care in the Left Party's world. Yes, Capio is part of Swedish healthcare, but 99.9 percent of all companies in Sweden are small and medium-sized companies. The enormous size that Karin Rågsjö describes that Capio has I cannot quite agree with. Karin Rågsjö goes into a special issue when it comes to private health insurance and says that it is about patients who go ahead in the queue. That's exactly the opposite. With your private health insurance, you step out of the line and let others go first. I definitely do not share the world view that Karin Rågsjö has, and it is perhaps lucky, because otherwise we would stand here with zero freedom of choice in Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-108	Madam President, I would like When it comes to these large companies, Capio, Praktikertjänst and Aleris account for 50 percent of all private healthcare companies. Then there are smaller companies too, and I think this should be borne in mind in this debate. You speak of diversity, but on whose terms? These are companies which, through their freedom of establishment, place themselves and their health centres in neighbourhoods and places where people are not so ill. That can be followed in various investigations. Freedom of establishment is not a good method of obtaining equal health care. When it comes to private health insurance, you do not buy health insurance and then end up in line. That's not how it works. Look at Ersta, Sophiahemmet, St Göran – there you have care for this type of policyholder. They go ahead, and they get care of on-call doctors and nurses.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-110	Madam President, I would like I don't think Karin Rågsjö is particularly familiar with how the free health choice works in Sweden. There is no possibility whatsoever in today's Sweden to say no to a patient. If you are to establish yourself in an area, of course you establish yourself based on the opportunities available, and then everyone has the right to choose based on how satisfied or not satisfied they are. It is not about choosing to establish yourself in areas where it is the most healthy patients. You have no choice at all.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-111	Madam President, I would like My home district is in Stockholm County Council, and one can think about why there are 13 health centres at Östermalm and 6 in Botkyrka. Is it needs-oriented? I think that is a question to consider. It is true that freedom of establishment in big cities is specifically about you as an entrepreneur deciding to establish yourself at a place where you can also make a certain profit. I don't think it's that strange. It is not the people who establish their businesses who have made the mistakes, but these are political mistakes. We're not going to load those who open businesses.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-113	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Karin Rågsjö for the opportunity to ask a question that I have been thinking about for a very long time. When Karin Rågsjö says that you should not make money from healthcare, I think: Anyone who manufactures and sells ambulances can make money. Whoever sells the electricity and the heat to the hospitals has to make money. Anyone who washes blankets and sells hospital clothes gets to make money. Producers of magnetic cameras, pharmaceuticals and hospital food earn money. How can it be possible– I can't bend my brain around this – that it's only the people who meet the patients who can't make money in health care?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-114	Madam President, I would like This isn't about small companies, Lina Nordquist. For example, if Capio has a return of 15 per cent of invested capital and it beats Nordea, it should be small clocks everywhere if it is appropriate to make as much profit from tax money as you do. As you know, we don't want to take away the winnings. We want to remove the prize hunt. For example, there is a 7% proposal. It's not that bad. This is a lot about how to structure care. If we are to get equal care in Sweden, we cannot continue along this path with this kind of opportunity to make a great deal of money from healthcare in this way. It's about patients and you establishing yourself in places where people are at their best. It must be another political governance that also increases equality in health care among patients, I think.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-118	Madam President, I would like It is therefore the size of the companies that is crucial. It is a question of healthcare companies being much larger than those which produce ambulances or sell electricity, magnetic cameras and medicines. For me, it is worrying that it is precisely in the women-dominated professions that it should be forbidden to make money or even change employers. It worries me.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-119	Madam President, I would like It's not women sitting around the tables beating with the club on the boards of these big companies, Lina. It's very male-dominated. I and the Left Party would really like to see more non-profit companies in the business, perhaps Save the Children, the Red Cross– well, you know, all those who do the good work. But it's not like that. There are three companies that have 50% of the private health care market. Then I think we've landed a little wrong.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for an ideological debate! It's loud and clear that you're a left-winger. I'll give you credit for that. You mentioned the private health insurance. Sickness insurance is an insurance for loss of income in the event of illness. The largest distributors are customer-owned companies, such as Skandia, Länsförsäkringar and for that matter Folksam, where LO is a partner. The surplus goes back to the customers. Let's take Capio and St Göran's Hospital as an example. They deliver better care at a lower cost to taxpayers and have better customer satisfaction compared to the other emergency hospitals, which are run by politicians. Why don't you want more Stockholmers and Swedes in the rest of the country to get better healthcare at a lower cost? Why do you keep getting stuck in the socialist, ideological locks? Admit that you want to control the health care system! You do not want the market to give taxpayers better care at a lower cost.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-124	Madam President, I would like St Göran is a great hospital. It was even before Capio took over. It is also about the demographics that are around. If we look at the other hospitals in alliance-led Stockholm County Council – it said about Södersjukhus today, yesterday it said about Karolinska and so on – it looks different. They are politically controlled hospitals, but they are mismanaged because they have invested far too little in county health care against what they could have done. When it comes to health insurance, we can take the United States as an example. We're definitely not there yet. But if you open more doors to the private market, to the healthcare companies that ally themselves with the insurance companies – there is no talk about the existence of that link – I think we will see an even more two-tier market than today. If you have a health insurance policy, you go first. Then you call the specific health centre owned by a specific health care company, and then you go ahead in the queue.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-128	Madam President, I would like However, health insurance does not cover all diseases, Karin. For example, if you have cancer, it is not covered by private health insurance. It is also regulated by law. Another thing is that you object to more Stockholmers and more Swedes getting better healthcare. The reason a French company makes a bid for Capio is obviously that Capio does something good. You don't put an offer on a company that you know you're going to lose if the care isn't good. In the end, however, it is we politicians who procure care for our citizens. It is not in that way that everyone is forced to buy health insurance themselves.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-131	Madam President, I would like If I were the owner – it might be a little strange because I am a left-wing party – in Ramsay Générale de Santé, which is a giant label, I wouldn't, of course, spy out over the world and think: Where can my company equip the welfare? No, you think like this: Where can I cash in? Where can I get money for my shareholders? That's the rule. And then we lose the whole health care team on the floor.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-133	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you talk about notes. We were almost into it just now, with stock exchange companies and that sort of thing. Usually the notes go a little up and a little down, depending on what the surroundings look like. However, there is one note that has only gone up in the last four years. That's how long you have to wait in the care queue for surgery. That record has only increased during the reign of Lövven. In 2015, it started at 31 per cent, and in 2018 it ended at 40 per cent. These are people who wait longer than the deadlines agreed by all of us in this House. In the queues there is a concern that the disease or disease will get worse while you have to wait. This is not worthy of Sweden. It is not worthy of a human view based on the equal and inviolable value of all. I think you should call failure just a failure. Madam President, I would like Nurses, nurses, nurses and doctors make decisive and heroic contributions to Swedish healthcare, even though they are forced to work in a dysfunctional organization. The structure of the county council is from the municipal reform of 1862. Then it has been added, subtracted, patched and fixed in the county council's assignments. The legislator's intention is that we should have equal care throughout Sweden. It is basically a very reasonable and appealing thought. But that is not the reality, Madam President. In the right county council, you get care on time and world-leading treatment. If you fall ill in the wrong county council, the possibility of getting adequate care on time is reduced. This puts you at risk of suffering and ultimately of dying in the queue. We can't have that. It's not worthy. Why is this? Partly because it has been difficult to recruit staff because of working conditions and wages that are not perceived as attractive or dignified. We also have large retirements that are not matched by recruitment. The main problem, however, is that the organisation does not function properly. The resources are not used optimally. Considerable investment has been made in medical equipment used for far too little of the week. Doctors in Sweden are burdened with administration and documentation. On average, patients meet 30% of their working hours. It is the worst among comparable countries. On the other hand, doctors in Sweden are at the top of comparable countries when it comes to having a lot of administrative time. Come on, come Now we have to stop pokeing and change in the existing county councils. Scrap the county council organization we know today! This is a large but necessary work that will begin now to get into operation as soon as possible. It is time for a round-up and a proper investigation in order for us to get a healthcare system where the patient's needs are first, where the staff are allowed to devote themselves to what they have trained for and where there is professional administrative support. Only in this way can we get good health care in Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-143	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating the Christian Democrats on an exciting election campaign. One of the most exciting features was a whale poster that said that no one should have to die in the care queues of cancer and with a picture of a patient threatened by dying in the cancer queues. Yesterday, the Inspection for Care concluded that two patients in the Stockholm County Council have died in the cancer queues. It's deeply upsetting. I would like to ask you, Michael Anefur: What responsibility do you and your party colleagues have in the Stockholm County Council, which you lead, for the deaths of two patients in the cancer queues?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-146	Madam President, I would like Dag Larsson! It is terrible if someone dies in queues, whether it happens to be in Stockholm County Council, as I know that Dag Larsson knows well, or in some other county council in Sweden. The number of people who need to stand in line is also increasing the risk that more people will die in the queue. I think that I and Dag agree that we should oppose it as far as possible. But we don't do that by just talking about it. As I said in my speech, I think we need a new organisation. The old organization, which dates back to the 19th century, has probably done its part. There's so much in the walls that's not good. There are so many different levels, and there is so much that you don't come up with. We don't have to talk about private or public. We need to talk about a new organization.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-150	Madam President, I would like I can only say that it is the Christian Democrats who put up the posters that say that no one should have to die in the cancer line. I note that there are examples of two people who have died, as IVO has said. It's in a county council where the Christian Democrats rule. I note that the Christian Democrats have been involved in building an organisation in Stockholm where hospitals compete with each other instead of helping each other. If you build an organisation where every hospital competes with all other hospitals, refuse to share information, refuse to cooperate for the benefit of patients, then people die even in the Christian Democratically controlled Stockholm County Council.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-153	Madam President, I would like If you build an organization, Dag Larsson, which means that you can not even within the same county council can send records to each other, then we have a problem. We have the wrong organization. We must be able to get to grips with this, and I think that we must do it together. Again, it is extremely tragic that someone has to die in a queue, whether it be cancer or something else. We are in complete agreement on that.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-155	Madam President, I would like We Liberals are convinced that every human being needs your freedom, whether healthy or sick. We are also convinced that it takes a strong community for all people in our country to have that freedom. As we have heard here today, we have a world-leading healthcare system in Sweden. In the two areas of freedom and strong protection, this is currently lacking. There is not enough self-determination for healthcare professionals. Laws and rules should not regulate in detail what people themselves can handle. You have to be able to change jobs or start a business even in women dominating the industries. You must be able to choose inpatient care close to your relatives or where in the country you want care. It makes no sense to me that you don't get it today. The protection is also flawed. The strong community is not enough either. When the state, which sometimes rules and regulates too much detail, is really needed, it can sometimes be almost crazy silent. We have seen this very clearly when it comes to people with disabilities, LSS. Unfortunately, people with disabilities also have the same limited everyday life in health care. They have much worse health than the rest of us. We also know that sick people are forced to wait forever for the care they so badly need. People get worse care because they happen to live in the wrong county. What you don't give. Once the state is needed, it must be loud. Then there's one thing I really think we should get to grips with, and I call it stupidity. Our common resources must, of course, be used with caution and responsibility. That is why I think that there must be a stop to over-bureaucracy, administration and piles of paper that steal valuable time for the meeting in health care between sick people and the people who are going to take care of them. I think it scares people away from health care, and it prevents us from providing the best care we can today. I also do not understand why it should be so difficult to find new treatments for severe diseases. I do not understand why some of us in here – not I, however – want medical care to be locked up at university hospitals, medical care that should be available throughout the country. It's weird. We need to settle this with greater self-determination, stronger protection and an end to stupidity. This is something we need to get ashore. We don't have any excuses. We must always be able to say that it was not better before.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-163	Madam President, I would like This debate began by talking about demographic trends in the country and the problems they pose for health care. I was going to highlight another part of the well-being where demography also presents challenges, namely care for the elderly. The current government has begun long-term development work for elderly care and has taken important steps for those with the greatest need for care. Many efforts have been made. I would like to highlight today some important challenges that should be pursued for the future. The first part is the supply of skills. We know that we need to recruit 136 000 nurses and carers until 2026. These employees will need to be well trained to meet dementia, multi-sickness and large, complex care needs. They also need to be able to work preventively. It is important that we at all levels take greater responsibility for making health professions more attractive. Regulating the profession of assistant nurse is a step along the way, but it involves so many more things, such as working conditions and working environment. The second part deals with the role of family members in the care of the elderly. They play an extremely important role today. Many give care to their loved ones. For me, it is incredibly important that it should be a voluntary commitment, not something that one feels compelled to do because one feels insecure with the care that society can give. And when making this effort, much more support is needed for the family member to be willing and able to continue doing this important job. The third point I would like to make is that the coordination between health and social services needs to be improved. In my country, almost 30 per cent of all health care is currently provided by the municipality. I think that we sometimes forget to talk about the role of municipalities in health care. It is there that you have multisick elderly people and people with large, complex care needs. There is much to do here. The law on cooperation in the discharge from closed health care has apparently had good effects; we could read about that last night. There are far fewer people who remain in hospital when they are finished than they were before. It was almost a surprising effect. Finally, Madam President, I would like to highlight the issue of prevention and health promotion for the elderly. The fact that we remain as healthy as possible for as long as possible is above all a profit for the individual, but it is also a great profit for society. There's a cloud of anxiety. For example, the consumption of alcohol by older people is increasing alarmingly. In combination with the fact that the elderly are often prescribed various medicines, this is a major risk of unwanted effects and falls. Loneliness and inadequate diets are other anxiety clouds. Madam President, I would like This government has begun long-term work for the development of care for the elderly. For me, it is urgent that this work be allowed to continue. I do not believe that the challenges can be solved with more privatisations, more profit from welfare, less resources for operations or faster running of staff. I therefore hope that we will continue to have an S-led government.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Nilsson, for raising many important issues in this area! I note that you raised the problem of the working environment, and you also closed your speech with that. I don't really understand how you got it together, but the work environment is very important. I would like to ask Kristina Nilsson how she views developments with galloping costs for renters, not just rent doctors and rent nurses. We also have nurses in Swedish health care today. I wonder how Kristina Nilsson believes that within the Social Democraticly led county councils we can defend this huge increase in the cost of hiring staff, rather than allowing the money to go to improving the working environment for those who are already working firmly in these activities.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-176	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Rahm, for the question. In the care of the elderly, renters are not the biggest problem, as I see it. I suppose you're referring more to, for example, my own home country, Region Västernorrland. It's just as simple as I think it's completely inappropriate for so much resources to go to hire staff. It also gives less quality for patients, as different people come all the time. It does not take the same responsibility as permanent staff for all parts of the business, for example in terms of the development of its own operations and supervision by colleagues and others. Instead, you graze off what you do on the very day you are there, and then you let it go. Of course it is very unfortunate.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-178	Madam President, I would like I am glad that Kristina Nilsson and I agree on the negative consequences of having too much hire staff. But I come from Västerbotten, and there we definitely have a big challenge with hire staff in all categories, whether we are talking about county councils or municipalities. However, I note that we see a completely different situation in the private health centres and units, so when it comes to health and safety at work everything can be done if you do so properly.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-180	Madam President, I would like I think I've never been so happy about a line from a Moderate. So we are in complete agreement that we should put an end to the misery of rental medicine. I thank you very much for that.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina, for raising the issue of skills provision! That is a very important question. I myself am a nurse, and I belong to those who have worked for one of the great dragons. I enjoyed it just fine. I don't think I've ever had such a good employer in my career as a nurse. The nursing shortage is enormous. In the coming years, we will have to recruit an extremely large number of nurses, especially specialist nurses. How do you view the development that is taking place, which is putting a brake on the private health care companies, which are actually an opportunity for us as health professionals to choose employers? We should not forget that it is not only the salary that governs, but actually how you enjoy your workplace. Having the freedom to choose an employer other than the public is very important; you hear that when you talk to our colleagues. How do you see the possibility of making the professions more attractive when you try to remove 50% of employers?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-184	Madam President, I would like I'm a nurse myself. I have worked at Örnsköldsvik Hospital and very much in the care of the elderly. The supply of skills is the greatest challenge of our time, I would say. It is linked to many of the other problems we see today, both in care for the elderly and in health care. I think it's a lot about exactly what you, Sofia Nilsson, are talking about: work environment and well-being at work. The vast majority say they love their job and would like to continue doing it, but many choose to stop because they simply can't stand the work environment. It covers many parts: the nearest management, having enough coworkers, being able to feel satisfied with the work you have done while walking for the day. When you are too stressed and stressed and constantly have to run faster and faster, you don't feel satisfied, and then you don't want to stay.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina. You are not really answering my question that we who work in healthcare should be able to choose the employer. If we do not like a public employer, for example, why do you want to impair or remove the possibility of choosing a private employer?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-188	Madam President, I would like I think like this: if the solution to the supply of skills had been privatisation, we would not have a problem with the supply of skills in primary care. But precisely in primary care, we have enormous problems with the supply of skills. So I simply do not believe that privatisation is the answer to this question. I believe that there are quite other measures that need to be taken: we need better conditions and more training places, and we need to listen more to what health professionals need. They rarely say that they need to be more competitive.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-190	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying, of course, that health workers are vital. However, healthcare workers are too few, while far too many employees testify to an unsustainable work situation. Many, perhaps even as many as every other employee, are thinking of leaving care. The reasons for this, of course, are both numerous and varied, but serious and prolonged stress, combined with an insufficient opportunity for recovery and to influence their own work situation, appear to be largely joint declarations. In order to shorten the care queues and to meet the development of an ageing population with an increased need for care, we need to get more people to go to the care professions and get more people to both want and manage to work in the healthcare sector. We Moderates have therefore presented a wide range of proposals to strengthen health care employees. We have focused on three main areas which I now, Madam President, would like to touch on quickly. First, we want Moderates to strengthen healthcare employees through better working conditions and a better working environment. In concrete terms, we propose, for example, special wage initiatives for specialist nurses and other experienced, skilled staff who have fallen behind in wage developments. We want to give staff more influence over scheduling and working hours. Here digital tools can be of great help to contribute to a good scheduling and reduce the risk of scheduling that runs counter to working time legislation. The possibilities of digitalisation are also extremely central to reducing the administrative burden and simply giving healthcare workers more time with patients. Secondly, we Moderates want to strengthen health care employees through better education and more training. Healthcare is in rapid change and development, which places both increased and changed demands on employees. We therefore propose compulsory training, a national model for paid further training and a special effort on more midwives, to name but a few of our proposals in this area. Thirdly, Madam President, we want to strengthen health workers by developing leadership and safeguarding the diversity of health care. Local leadership plays a major role in the ability of healthcare to deliver good care and to attract and retain employees. We therefore want to make targeted training efforts and review the possibilities of introducing broad leadership training for future leaders in healthcare. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are the party that has most clearly fought for freedom of choice and diversity in healthcare. We are convinced that diversity is better than stupidity. Both employees and patients benefit from having the opportunity to choose and opt out of healthcare providers and employers. We therefore want to strengthen the possibilities for alternative forms of operation and increase the possibility of freedom of choice also within the specialised healthcare sector. Madam President, I would like I am a newly elected member of the Social Committee, and I am now looking forward to working hard together with my party and alliance friends to shorten the queues and improve Swedish health care. I think that starts by strengthening the health care staff and with a new moderate-led government.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-199	Madam President, I would like We have now reached the third and final day of public policy debates for this time. This week, Members of Parliament have debated everything from migration and defence to housing and labour market policy. We have to take a position on all these policies– debate them, vote on them and then implement them. The opportunity to do this is not something we should take for granted. The fact that we have to push and wet our heart issues with our opponents and listen to their arguments is something we should celebrate in our Swedish democracy. There may be disagreement in this House on many issues, but there is one issue in which I hope we can all agree. It is about the most basic thing for all of us is that we feel good, both on the outside and on the inside. Madam President, I would like I will spend the next few minutes talking about health, more specifically mental health. Because I am deeply concerned about the progress that mental illness seems to have made. It affects people in the most terrible ways. As Parliament's youngest member at the moment, I also feel particularly relevant to highlight mental illness among young people a little extra, also because it is often in the earlier ages that efforts need to be made. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, the proportion of children aged 10 to 17 who have received a psychiatric diagnosis or prescribed psychopharmaceuticals has increased over 100 per cent over the past decade. The growth of young people aged 16 to 24 is nearly 70 per cent. Suicide is now one of the most common causes of death in Sweden, not least in the group of men. More than 1,000 people die each year in Sweden because of suicide. However, this is not an isolated Swedish problem. The other day, The Lancet magazine published a report showing that mental illness is also increasing globally. The same report also notes that mental illness not only affects people and communities but can also cause long-term damage to the world economy. Indeed, the problems may cost the global economy as much as $16,000 billion between 2010 and 2030. This corresponds to about SEK 145 000 billion. This cannot be allowed to continue. Too many people's mental health is at stake. Too many people's mental health depends on our political will and drive. However, in order to come up with solutions to problems, it is important to first understand the cause of the problems. When it comes to mental illness, this is often particularly difficult because the pain is not visible on the outside. But just because something is difficult, we should not take a step back and feel defeated, but rather do everything in our power so that as many as possible can wake up in the morning and feel joy instead of hopelessness. More care places are needed in child and youth psychiatry. We need shorter waiting times and we need to break down the taboo that still seems to exist to some extent. Madam President, I would like It is time to raise the issue of mental illness high on the agenda, because it should be in everyone's interest that the people we have received the honour of representing in the Swedish Parliament are doing well. We must provide opportunities for a full life, so that a completed life never feels like the better or the only alternative.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-208	Madam President, I would like I look around in Parliament and would very much like to fit in. It's very nice and safe to fit in, but it's not always that easy. How much should I change to fit in the template? And who decides what the template should look like? What influences me to make the choices I make? In today's media society, we are flooded with numerous messages every day, not just in radio, television and newspapers and on posters. For almost all the waking hours of the day, we have with us the whole world in pocket format in the form of our mobile phones. In almost all of these places there is advertising. The purpose of advertising is to influence us. It is a means used for commercial purposes to make us consume. Skillful advertisers produce lots of advertising that companies pay big money for and that we are exposed to almost daily. It may be thought that not all advertising messages that are trumpeted are affected, but we are just people. It is difficult to resist the images painted by what you have to do, what you need or what to look like. That is why we in the Left Party want to ban sexist advertising. Although the main purpose of advertising is to increase demand for goods and services, it also affects the awareness of the recipient of things that are not always related to the product or service. Gender-discriminatory advertising affects the formation of people's identity and discourages society's pursuit of gender equality. Advertising creates and maintains stereotypical ideal images of men and women. The images are almost without exception retouched, which leads to them fortifying a beauty ideal that does not exist in reality. Beauty ideals and objectification in advertising can create a distorted body image and give a lower self-confidence. A 2016 survey shows that just over every other person meets daily advertising that is perceived as gender-discriminatory. Women, as well as persons aged 18-29, responded to a greater extent that they often meet this type of advertising. Young people also feel that sexist advertising has increased to a greater extent. As things stand, neither the Marketing Act nor the Discrimination Act apply to gender-discriminatory advertising. Instead, it is up to the business community to tackle the problem through voluntary measures. Every year about 250 complaints are made to the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman, RO. If RO considers an advertising element to be gender-discriminatory, it will have the opportunity to express its views on the advertising. An extract from the notification and RO's and the company's statements will then be published on RO's website. But there are no sanctions. It is entirely up to the sender to follow the decisions made. We do not think that is enough. The other Nordic countries already have a ban on sex-discriminatory advertising. Iceland is the country that has come the longest with counter-measures. Sweden is the only country that has absolutely no regulation and no possibility of sanctions in this area. We think it is time for Sweden to follow its Nordic neighbours. At the end of last year, the City of Stockholm adopted ethical guidelines on outdoor advertising. D is supposed to relate to RO's guidelines. The decision has been criticised, inter alia, because it risks restricting freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is there to protect opinions and opinions, not commercial interests. In Sweden there is already legislation against tobacco advertising, alcohol advertising and advertising aimed at children, without this being hindered by the Freedom of Expression Act. It should not be possible to hide behind freedom of expression in order to legitimise gender-discriminatory advertising.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-217	Madam President, I would like As a moderate, I do not think Mrs Thorbjörnson should have to fit in. He should not have to conform to standards and such things but to shape his own life and make the choices that he wants. Unfortunately, however, it is not this policy that the Left Party stands for. As far as health care is concerned, Mrs Thorbjörnson and his party want to restrict freedom of choice and force people into monolith instead of diversity. Why does Mrs Thorbjörnson not stand up for freedom of choice and diversity if he now thinks it is a problem that one has to fit in with a certain role?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-219	Madam President, I would like The most important thing is not to fit in. But in today's society, we are showered from all walks of life with messages that make us think we need to fit in. It can be difficult to always resist these messages. Then it may be good to get a helping hand from someone who can support and control.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-220	Madam President, I would like Isn't it beautiful — a hand that can help and control! This clearly bears witness to the huge distance that exists between the Left Party and the Moderates in Swedish politics regarding the view of man, the individual and the possibilities of politics and the limitations of politics. It is not the role of politics to go in and govern and regulate in that way. Nevertheless, I think that the honourable Member must give a definition of gender-discriminatory advertising. What is it?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-222	Madam President, I would like That is what I said in my speech. Gender-discriminatory advertising shows stereotypical images of people and individuals in society. That is what we want to counteract. We want every human being to be free to make their own choice. You're supposed to be free to be what you want. For example, I have often been told that we should let boys be boys and girls be girls. Instead, we should focus on letting children be children.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-224	Madam President, I would like I turn to Mrs Thorbjörnson. I think it is good that he raises a question of gender-discriminatory advertising in this debate. The honourable Member was very clear that it is about fitting in. It's about stereotypical standards. If you feel that you don't fit in, there is a risk that mental illness occurs, which is not good. You should be free to be what you want – yes. There we will come back to what my colleague Johan Hultberg mentioned. You should be free to be what you want, and you should be free to choose. We return to freedom of choice, the possibility of choosing within health care, which the Left Party is so distinctly opposed in all forms. Why should one be allowed to choose in this case?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-226	Madam President, I would like We are not against freedom of choice, and it is important for each individual to be as it is and not to be influenced by the environment. It is important that, no matter what sexual orientation you have, which sex you think you belong to, how old you are or whatever it may be, you have the opportunity to choose for yourself how you want to be and live your life.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-227	Madam President, I would like I think this is the first time I have heard a Member representing the Left in this House say that it is not against freedom of choice. There is something that I should note in my calendar, because I thought that was positive. Nevertheless, when it comes to choosing health care, we find ourselves again on the same issue. Then you can't make those choices, according to the Left Party.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-229	Madam President, I would like It is nice to be able to please one's political opponents. I guess we'll have to write that down in the calendar. I continue to think that sexist advertising affects us too much and that we should legislate so that we do not have to do so.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-231	Madam President, I would like Breathing and eating are basic needs that most of us have the luxury of taking for granted. This should be the case for everyone, but for some people with disabilities it is unfortunately all but obvious that they are getting the help they need in terms of the most basic needs. LSS – the law on support and service for certain disabled people – is a law on rights. It is a reform of freedom that has improved the quality of life for many people. Not least the right to personal assistance has given many a chance to live like others. LSS was introduced in 1994. For each year, the number of persons covered by the Act has increased – until 2016. At that time, the Social Democratic-led government commissioned the Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of assistance hours. The consequences have been devastating. Some 1,700 people with extensive needs have lost their assistance completely or received considerably fewer hours. In addition, more and more people are being refused their first application. For us Christian Democrats, the situation is totally unacceptable. We must never forget that behind each figure is a person, a person who needs help to cope with his or her everyday life. Perhaps it is a small child with a congenital disability that causes the breathing to be inhibited by mucus that accumulates in the lungs. Perhaps it is a teenager with autism and outward behavior who needs help to communicate with the outside world. Perhaps it is a woman in the middle of her life who suddenly suffered a severe stroke or was seriously injured in a traffic accident. Madam President, I would like For these people, the Authority's assessment of the number of hours required for help with so-called basic needs is crucial. If the total time exceeds 20 hours per week, you are entitled to assistance via Försäkringskassan. Imagine a person who has such difficulty in chewing and swallowing that the nutrition needs to be administered via a probe! The person needs help with the whole process, which may take 15 to 20 minutes. But today's tougher assessment does not take into account the entire time the procedure takes. No, instead, the process is broken down in stages, and only those elements that are considered to be privacy sensitive or of a very private nature are considered basic needs. Relaxing on and off the probe is usually considered a basic need, but not the time when the nourishment is passed through the probe. That is the step that actually takes the longest time. The effect of the stricter assessment is that the number of assistance hours is reduced, often to just under 20 hours. This means that, in practice, the assistance period granted is not enough to carry out the operation – this despite the fact that the need for assistance has often been exactly the same for several years, perhaps throughout life. Only the Authority's assessment has changed. When victims and relatives point out the absurdity of the cuts, they often face the words: that the effort cannot be carried out in practice is not something that we can take into account in our assessment. The acute LSS crisis is taking place here and now. With each passing day, even more lives and families are being torn apart. The purpose of the LSS was to give many people the right to live, not just survive. Today, however, we have a situation in which many have to fight against government decisions for the right to survive. It is a situation that we Christian Democrats cannot accept either as representatives of politics or as fellow human beings. Madam President, I would like It is clear that action is urgently needed to help those who have been put at a disadvantage. It is therefore gratifying that all parties, from left to right, during the election campaign promised to take action against the crisis. My wish and appeal to all members of the Social Committee is therefore that we should be able to agree on the committee initiative that we Christian Democrats have put forward to push the LSS issue in the direction that all parties have now said they want to do. Together, let us do what we can to resolve the acute crisis, because those affected cannot wait any longer!
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for your description of LSS! We share your view that the LSS needs to be reformed. We share your view that those in need of support, help and service should receive it. We share your view on the urgency of action. On the other hand, I do not share your view of history. LSS hours started to fall as early as 2008, 2009. Then it was the alliance government that ruled. The Alliance government then commissioned an investigation, because it saw the same problems with the legal interpretation that we see today or that we saw a couple of three years ago. You didn't do anything. The S-led government has taken several initiatives and decisions. In addition, we have an ambition to correct the legislation once and for all. What does Pia Steensland think the LSS will look like in the future?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist! We see a sharp, dramatic change after 2016 when the Social Democrats gave directives to the Social Insurance Agency to reduce assistance hours, and we do not see that the ongoing investigation has the beginning to actually restore the acute crisis that is going on here and now. We must tackle this seriously and ensure that assistance works in practice. Not only can assistance hours be theoretically provided, but it must be ensured that it can be implemented in practice. We cannot stand by and watch, but we must ensure that these people receive the help they need.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for your answer! I just want to underline that we have a huge ongoing investigation that I dare say looks at everything. It will be presented in just over two months' time, so I do not quite understand why the Christian Democrats have put forward an initiative for the committee to look at the issue more quickly. How are we going to do that with the resources available in the office when we have been investigating the matter for two years? Instead, let us take a serious discussion together when the investigation is completed.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-249	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist! It's about two different things. We do not see that the investigation has the task of solving the acute effects. The opening of the investigation was, of course, to save money on assistance, although the new directive says that we should start from the current level, which is a sharp drop in itself. The National Board of Health and Welfare's report already in December, soon a year ago, showed that children do not receive the help they need. We have to save them right now.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-251	Madam President, I would like If you get sick leave, your income drops considerably, and the money in your account can run out quite quickly. If you get a rejection, even though you are ill, you can become poor even if you have worked for many years. I came in contact with many people on sick leave in my previous work as a sickness benefit officer. As Christmas approaches, I am reminded of some of the most difficult conversations I had. It was parents who had explained to their children that there were no Christmas gifts but who gave me a question as to how they could explain why there was not even money for Christmas food and rent. Madam President, I would like I've seen the inequality in our country. I've seen the vulnerability up close, and I hate it. As a social democrat, I stand in favour of the person who is ill not having to get poor, too. For me, it is about redistributing resources, and it is about equality. A functioning health insurance is essential for a welfare society. On the contrary, when health insurance does not work, inequality can be expected to increase. Trade union representatives and sick people I meet testify to the problems of health insurance. It is sick leave that ends up between the chairs when Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen do not even have the same definition of work capacity. These are the time limits in the rehabilitation chain, which are rejected by reference to normal, almost fictional jobs. It is a refusal which has increased as a result of the target of a maximum of 9.0 days. Add to this the anxiety, insecurity, and sickness that make people sicker. It's not supposed to be like that. It was the then alliance government that introduced the rehabilitation chain in 2008 and the later deadline that insured the sick after two and a half years. Should the Moderates gain power, they want to maintain the rehabilitation chain, reintroduce the lower time limit, lower sickness benefit, have a numerical target and introduce another withdrawal day. They do this for ideological reasons. They choose tax cuts over welfare. For quite different ideological reasons, we need to break what was once created by the Right. The red-green government quickly abolished the lower time limit in health insurance and raised the much-deprived ceiling for sickness benefit. It was the right thing to do. But then things have gone quite slowly. We had a minority in Parliament during the last parliamentary term. The right wanted to continue on its old track, so there was simply no legislative support in this area. It was a problem, but we still have to try. Sweden has been testing the current regulatory framework for a few years now. We know what's not working, so now we can take the chance to change it. I am absolutely convinced that the Social Democrats are the party that can push through the much-needed change in health insurance, simply because we stand up for equality and a strong welfare. Towards the end of the term of office, the government set up an investigation to review the problems of health insurance and make sharp proposals. I hope that the proposals will be supported in Parliament, but I believe that the issue needs to be put forward so that it becomes clear where the parties stand. Madam President, I would like Illness can happen to everyone. When security systems do not work, everyone is affected, and most of all those who have the most difficulties in our society are affected. Policies that make a real difference in people's lives require courageous politicians who dare to make tough decisions. Let us decide not to let the one who gets sick become poor too.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sultan Kayhan, for raising a very important question! We see a big problem when it comes to sick leave and how Försäkringskassan handles our sick leave today. The Social Security Inspectorate pointed out last night that the Social Insurance Agency rejected too many sick leave certificates in a way that is not legally secure. One can think about how the Social Democrats think that legally-assured sick leave and rehabilitation processes can be carried out if their own authority is unable to carry out legally-secured activities.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a relevant question! I think the government will look at this, because it is nevertheless a very serious and important issue. What I'm thinking is this wasn't the only thing that came out. What also emerged was that with the introduction of a target of 9.0 days, the application of the existing legislation has become more strict. We've seen that. And you introduced that legislation into the Alliance when you were in power. The fundamental problem, as I see it, is still the legislation that we have not been able to change since there was no support for it in Parliament during the last parliamentary term. You have said that you still want to maintain that regulatory framework. You also want to reintroduce the time limit in health insurance. Does Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm not think that this too is the basis for a legally insecure handling of Försäkringskassan's work?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-267	Madam President, I would like The longer deadline is something that we have discussed a number of times. Now it is removed, and I see it as nothing but symbolic politics that means that you can be on sick leave indefinitely. There is no stopping date for how long your sick leave can last. Sweden has one of the most generous security systems, and we should be proud of that. But you cannot do as the Social Democrats and give regulations to Försäkringskassan which means that we reduce the sickness rate by denying all sick leave.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-269	Madam President, I would like When the deadline expired, almost 90 000 sick people were insured, just because their days in health insurance had run out. It was not people who did not want to work but were too sick to work. It's not right if you want a health insurance that should be a security when life turns. The Social Insurance Agency can never make people healthy. It is the responsibility of the employer and health care.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sultan Kayhan, for starting an interesting debate! The Borg removed the precipice, and that was good. Many within the right sometimes say that health insurance is a contribution, but it is an insurance policy. It's supposed to cover what happens when you get sick. Unfortunately, over the last four years, you have put forward savings proposals at Försäkringskassan, i.e. to cut down to nine days' sick leave. I've met a lot of people who've been insured out of health insurance. They have had to go to Arbetsförmedlingen, to hear there that they cannot work because they are too sick. I've met a lot of doctors who've written all kinds of medical certificates. The medical certificates have been challenged by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It has also been a problem. This has put many people on the edge of the pot – they have simply become poor.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-274	Madam President, I would like I did not get a real question, but I was going to try to comment on a few things that Karin Rågsjö raised. It's wrong to call it a savings proposal. The Social Insurance Agency has never received a savings proposal. On the other hand, Försäkringskassan has a focus that has led to different things, but to call it a savings proposal is wrong. It's something completely different. The Social Insurance Agency has never received that assignment. Then there was the question of the amount of communication letters that have increased from Försäkringskassan to doctors. I agree that this is a major problem. These are a number of different issues, and I raised a motion on the matter during the last parliamentary term. This is partly about the regulatory framework, that it has become a stricter assessment, and also about the fact that you may not always know how health insurance works. The doctor's training is six years old, and during that time doctors receive about half a day's training in health insurance. It is not reasonable to work with sick leave, rehabilitate and treat people.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-278	Madam President, I would like Yes, Sultan Kayhan, it was a little brazen not to give you a direct question. It is true that the direction given by the Social Democratic Government meant that many people were actually knocked out of health insurance. How does Sultan Kayhan think the new directives will be? How do you Social Democrats view health insurance as an insurance for when you fall ill, so that you should not also feel stress that you will become poor?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-281	Madam President, I would like It is actually difficult for me to answer what the government is coming up with now. But I wish that we would tackle the problems that exist, and that is why I have started the discussion today. There are problems in health insurance. As Karin Rågsjö knows, we have not had a majority in Parliament in order to legislate on the issues, but I think we must do our best. It's about people who are suffering and people who don't feel safe when they get hurt.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-283	Madam President, I would like We are all different and have different needs. We think and think differently, and we like different things. What I try to describe in brief is that we are all different individuals and should be considered and treated as different individuals. This is true in most areas apart from the area that is one of the most important, namely education, health and long-term care. Is it really the state and the municipality that will decide where your children are going to school, which retirement home you are going to live on when you are unable to live in your own home anymore and who is going to come home to your home and do home help? The law on freedom of choice is almost ten years old, and only a little more than half of the country's municipalities have begun to apply it. During the last parliamentary term, the then Red-Green Government met the Left Party, all to get its budget through. The price paid by the government was the appointment of an investigation under the leadership of Ilmar Reepalus to stop the so-called profits in welfare. The investigation was intended to put an end to all opportunities to choose school, health care and care. We would be back in a system in which the state and the municipality would have their own power as the executioner and where alternatives would not be allowed. This investigation has received massive criticism from most consultation bodies as it is devastating to all actors with other forms of operation operating in the fields of education, health and social care. The whole investigation is a thought-wreck, and it shows with great clarity that ideology is the guiding principle – not a reality-impaired basis of investigation. Madam President, I would like The then red-green government supported many of its statements on opinion polls that allegedly show an overwhelming majority for profit restrictions in schools, health care and care. The way you shout, you get answers. If you turn the question instead and wonder if the Swedish population wants choices in school, health care and care, if it is important with good quality, the answer will be a completely different one. We cannot continue to deny our citizens the right to choose the executioner in the care of the elderly, the right to choose where the children should go to school and the right to decide who should come home to their own home and do home service. Quality must be the key word, not the mode of operation. We have to let people take responsibility for themselves and choose. In order to be able to make demands on quality, an equivalent requirement is required for all operations, regardless of the type of operation. Another important question is that we must demand that all activities, regardless of their type of operation, have an economy in balance. A relevant question then becomes: Why? Why are we not talking about losses in welfare? This is a much bigger and more serious problem. Why should we allow activities to be unable to keep budget and to spend more and more of our tax money on activities that do not have an economy in balance? Madam President, I would like Taking responsibility for our tax chandeliers is something that should apply to everyone who works in sectors financed by our tax funds. A majority of those working in school, health and social care are women. The introduction of the Freedom of Choice Act increased the opportunities for female entrepreneurship in all municipalities in the country. More employers provide more choice and create more mobility in the labour market. Sweden needs more companies, and Sweden needs more taxpayers.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-292	Madam President, I would like What Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm describes means that there is no freedom of choice at all in the rest of Europe. There is no country that has such generous rules for profit withdrawals in welfare as Sweden has. Profit lobbyists say that profits in welfare are a prerequisite for people to be able to choose a health centre and school. But freedom of choice between different public and private performers can be found even without a win hunt, can't it? This is the case in many countries, but in Sweden there is also the prize hunt. The investigation has developed proposals on how to deal with the hunting of profits, and it is also not proposed that freedom of choice should disappear. The question is not whether freedom of choice should remain, but whether it should be the freedom of choice of citizens or companies that should be safeguarded.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-294	Madam President, I would like This will be an ideological debate again. I do not believe that Swedish citizens today understand the significance of the terribly destructive investigation that Ilmar Reepalu has presented. It is not a question of profit-hunting, it is a total destruction of all activities in alternative forms of operation. It sounds so nice that it should be estimated on operational capital. Who knows what operational capital is today? No one. That's why it sounds great. It is not about profit hunting, it is about the operation of a company due to satisfied customers and satisfied patients. If you are unable to deliver good care and care, you have no business at all to manage. This is a question that will be about quality, not the form of operation.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-298	Madam President, I would like Satisfied shareholders can be seen in Capio and now in the French company. It's moving on. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm talks about the Swedish people as if they were a little – excuse – less talented when she says they do not understand the questions they answer. Oh, my God! In the latest survey, 70 percent did not want this type of profit hunt. But we have seen so much lobbying here in Parliament. There are so many papers, books and so on that have come in from the lobby companies. There is really no limit to this type of dividend.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-300	Madam President, I would like It's hard words when we're talking profit hunts. I'm talking quality as the biggest beacon. Without quality, we have absolutely no business to operate. I run and own a health centre in the redst Västerbotten and can testify with my own experience that it is quality that is the guiding star. Otherwise, we would not be able to operate as we do today. It's not about a prize hunt. It is about satisfied patients and good care.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-302	Madam President, I would like Mental illness is a growing public health problem. We see that problems such as anxiety, anxiety and sleeping problems are increasing in all age groups and have done so in the last 20 years. Every other Swedish person is at risk of mental illness at some point during their lifetime, and the number of cases related to mental illness has almost doubled in just a few years. Society's total costs for mental illness are estimated to be SEK 135 billion annually. We can thus conclude that it is a serious and costly situation and development that we are facing and have to deal with. Madam President, I would like Mental ill health is a broad and complex area. That is why today I will highlight psychiatric care and some improvement measures that we consider relevant at the moment. In the first place, we need to work to stimulate measures that actively promote the development of new methods and ways of working in psychiatry. We see today that successful research projects are praised for their good effects, while the various conditions and resources of the county councils put an end to innovative ways of working being tested or implemented in the ordinary operations. In view of this, there is reason to review how we can update knowledge support and coordination efforts. We also need to investigate how we can counteract differences and create more equal conditions for county councils to develop their operations and meet the needs that are relevant. In order to maintain good, qualitative care, psychiatry needs to be in line with current research and the latest knowledge. Continuity in this crucial development process requires impetus in order to support projects that intend to promote this particular process. Madam President, I would like We need a new focus where modernisation and innovation become the starting point for high-quality psychiatric care in Sweden. There are good reasons to investigate whether a national coordination of knowledge-supporting and stimulating interventions can strengthen the ability to deal with the increasing mental illness in Sweden in a beneficial way. The Swedish Democrats intend to raise this very important issue for further consideration in the light of what I have just said.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-309	Madam President, I would like One of the most crucial factors for the development of a country is the state of public health in that country. For me as a social democrat, it is unacceptable that it is the economy, where you live or what sex you belong to that determines what health you have. I believe that we need to tackle the large and growing health gaps that exist in Europe, including in Sweden. We must create equal health for all. We must create fair public health. This is the only way we can create sustainable social development socially, economically and ecologically, but also democratically. The key to good and equal public health is not just what food we eat or how much we exercise. It is our participation in society, what education we have, what income and economic opportunities we have and what our living environment looks like. It is also the availability of public service – at all stages of life, not least when we need it most. But perhaps most important is to have a sense of context and access to close friends and family, such as those you can call when you feel vulnerable and in need. Susan Pinker, a well-known psychologist, has investigated how the population of a village in Sardinia lives for so long. She has concluded that one of the most important factors is having a close network that cares about you and takes care of you. In fact, when we talk about public health, it is more important than both exercise and eating right. We must take these factors seriously, and as politicians in the Swedish Parliament we can do something about this. We can influence through legislation, by improving the conditions for municipalities and county councils via preschool, school and health care – which have been debated quite a lot here today – but also by creating good conditions for urban planning through dialogue with citizens and by strengthening association life. That is why I am proud of the decision taken by Parliament in June that we should remove the gap in public health within a generation. I think we agreed politically on this in Parliament. It is therefore also a good thing that Agenda 2030 specifically addresses public health as a key factor for development. Both globally and locally, we must give top priority to public health. If we don't, we're creating an unstable society. We create divisions and alienation. It is a challenge for us politicians and requires courageous political positions. Therefore, I am proud of the security effort – the greatest in modern times – made by the S-led government. It is a way of tackling the problems that exist in society. We Social Democrats in government have made reinforcements for children and young people and the elderly for more equal care and care and for more equal education, which is a path towards better public health. The fact that more Swedes go to work and that we strengthen security in society also has a positive impact on public health. We know that prosperous citizens participate in and trust in society. They do not stand outside, and they are not attracted by anti-democratic forces. They protect the climate and create growth in our society. In short, it is urgent to strengthen public health for all. If we succeed in doing so, we will at the same time create sustainability and social, economic and democratic growth in Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-320	Madam President, I would like We're getting better, but more and more people are getting worse. It's a complex paradox. Mental ill-health is extensive, and I am convinced that it is one of our issues of destiny. Approximately 1 million Swedes of working age suffer from some form of mental illness. During my eight years in Region Skåne I have met many people in health care who work to make people feel better. It is primary care, BUP, youth clinics, psychiatry and all private and public practitioners who work with, for example, CBT and psychotherapy. In municipalities, it is social services and schools, mainly student health, that have an important role to play in catching up and preventing mental illness. I think that special mention should be made of the idea-borne sector, which is sometimes forgotten. Mind can be mentioned here as one of the organisations that take great responsibility and do a fantastic job. There are also good examples of employers who work with both preventive early interventions and rehabilitation. The picture is consistent among those I have met who work with mental illness. Pressure is strong, more people need help, queues are increasing and it is a big problem that municipalities, county councils and other actors cannot help all those who feel bad. Then the question is: What can and should we do nationally? Madam President, I would like We Moderates have a number of concrete proposals, and I wanted to mention six of them here today. Firstly, there are the queues, which we have discussed earlier today. The queues to the BUP are long. That is why we want to target 500 million of the queue billion, which we want to reintroduce, to the BUP. Secondly, we want to clarify and reintroduce the reinforced care guarantee that existed in children's and young people's psychiatry. It was removed by the last government. Thirdly, cooperation between all actors must be strengthened, between psychiatry and the rest of health care, school health care, in some cases substance abuse and social services. We Moderates also want to increase cooperation with the idea-based sector. Fourthly, a national strategy for psychiatry is needed. This would provide the conditions for more equal care in all regions and county councils in the country. Fifthly, as in the rest of health care, we need to strengthen the continuity of psychiatry. Being able to meet one and the same health care contact increases the safety of the patient, and it also increases quality. Sixthly and finally, we want to invest more in preventing suicide and greatly increasing the resources for research in this area. In concrete terms, we want to double the funding of the National Centre for Suicide Research. We Moderates take the increasing mental illness very seriously, in the great seriousness that is needed. It is urgent to grasp the fact that more and more people feel bad. Let's do this together.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-333	Madam President, I would like The Socialist-led government has over the last four years turned budget deficits into surpluses, reduced unemployment and paid off public debt, while we have invested in welfare. We want Sweden's economic strength to benefit everyone. For us, this goes before tax cuts for the rich and the wealthy. We Social Democrats have always given priority to the building of a common strong society. When times change, well-being also needs to follow developments. That is why over the years we Social Democrats have introduced, among other things, longer holidays, paternity months and, for the first time since 2006, also increased the child benefit. The purpose of economic family policy is, among other things, to create the conditions for equal housing conditions for all children. Madam President, I would like We have generous parental insurance, a preschool that everyone can afford and an extended leisure activity. Despite this, we see that the risk of sick leave due to mental illness is higher among parents working than in other groups. And today we have heard a lot about mental illness. Mental illness tends to come when you get stressed and the demands are too high. It's hard to make the everyday puzzle go together. In addition, many parents feel compelled to reduce working hours in order to have a decent everyday life. It is not sustainable development. That is why we Social Democrats want to continue to make it easier for parents who work, including by introducing an extra family week. For many working parents, it is difficult to take time off, not least for single parents and in occupational groups where you cannot take any time off. We Social Democrats want to introduce an extra family week in which guardians of children 4-16 years receive five days each to dispose of. Single parents get ten days a year to be able to take on leave, leave or, for example, planning days. We know that it would help and contribute to a relief that makes a big difference for families in general and for single parents in particular. An extra family week makes it easier to combine working life with family life, because we also know that the vast majority of working parents who are at risk of sick leave due to stress and mental illness are women. They are usually single women – women who want to work but who also want to be good parents for their children. Madam President, I would like If we are serious about reducing inequality, reducing segregation and having a strong society, we must continue to provide incentives that contribute to a change that makes a positive difference for those who need it. And all children need their parents. This is a good initiative that contributes to less stress and more family time, something that makes each family feel good. If we are serious about taking a strong stand against crime and exclusion, it is a good idea to concentrate on this very thing, to give each child time with his or her family. That's where security is established. An extra family week is a step in the right direction towards a society where time is sufficient, where attendance increases and sick leave decreases. It goes hand in hand, and it's our job to develop tools that help and strengthen. This proposal does just that.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-343	Madam President, I would like Now we stand here, Kadir and I, old neighbors but on each side. Madam President, I would like Kadir, in this case as representative of the Social Democrats, refers to the extra family week. Family week should as well be the step to break segregation. But, Madam President, Sweden is not as beautiful as it looks. Much of Sweden is doing well. But the fact is that for the first time in Sweden more people born abroad, people with immigrant background, are unemployed than native Swedes. If the Social Democrats had put a lot of effort into actually breaking segregation rather than locking people, mainly women, in an extended parental leave, we would have been able to talk about how we really break segregation. Sweden does not require more days of parental leave. We need to break the segregation for real, and you don't.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-347	Madam President, I would like Yes, Arin Karapet, we are now here in this beautiful hall together. I agree that inequality has increased. In fact, it increased when you ruled this country during the alliance period. We have great challenges in the country, especially here in Stockholm. I can tell you, Arin Karapet, something you probably didn't miss. Today we have 250 000 more people going to work, and many of them are born abroad. We have also ensured that the new arrivals in our country also enter the labour market more quickly, thanks to the labour market policy pursued by the Social Democrats. The extra family week is something that allows parents to have some extra time with their children, because the children also need their parents.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-351	Madam President, I would like But, Kadir, the truth is that a lot of children don't see their parents go to work. It's an even bigger problem. So we have a society where children grow up and inherit the alienation of their parents. You raise the tax on low-income earners and increase the contributions, that is to say, you reduce the incentive to move from benefits to work. You are opposed to introducing a premium ceiling. It should always pay to have a job, because a job is more than an income. It gives a form of self-esteem and allows you to stand on your own feet. You are against all kinds of this policy.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-354	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised when the Moderates call this contribution. It is an insurance policy that everyone has the right to use. It's voluntary, not mandatory. This gives parents, guardians, an opportunity to have more time with their children. Why are the Moderates opposed to employees having more time with their children?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-356	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In Sweden we have many zero visions. We have a zero vision against people cycling without helmets. We have a zero vision of road fatalities. We have a zero vision of people killing themselves. But that three people die in overdoses every day in Sweden, two men and one woman, we have no zero vision against. We have the second highest mortality rate in overdoses among drug addicts across the EU, but few talk about it. Last year we talked a lot about the terrible and terrible killings in Sweden. In 2017, 43 people lost their lives when they were shot dead in open spaces. That's an increase of 500 percent in just 12 years. This is, of course, terrible and something we should talk about. However, few spoke of the fact that behind each shooting was drug dealings, the very root of people being shot to death. In the United States, perhaps the richest country in the world, life expectancy is falling for the first time in history. This is because opioid abuse is the most common cause of death in people under 50 years of age. It is estimated that 2 million Americans are addicted to different drugs. In recent years, 349 people in Sweden have died from opioid overdoses, the most common being fentanyl. This drug is available in 1,500 variants and is 20 - 4,000 times stronger than heroin. Yet over 250 000 have been prescribed by doctors. We rarely talk about this. Last year the restaurant staff in Stockholm County Administrative Board alerted about the drug situation. They were concerned. At that time, STAD had a survey conducted among restaurant staff, and it showed that in the 160 restaurants where staff were interviewed, one in three restaurant workers had used narcotics. In the group under 24 years of age, as many as every other had used drugs. The police testify that in Stockholm it is cheaper to buy heroin than alcohol. For many years Sweden had a political unity and a commitment to the vision of a drug-free society. That vision doesn't seem to exist anymore. We have abolished the special drug police and pub commissions that existed in the past, and customs has insufficient resources. We have given those who sell drugs more liberal punishment, and it takes twice as much drugs to be convicted of serious crimes. We cannot classify drugs in the family class in Sweden, as we can in other countries. In our LVU and LVM institutions, drugs flow. Madam President, I would like I am deeply concerned that we do not have a zero vision of drug mortality in Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-364	Madam President, I would like It's good to see you in Parliament, Kristina! I totally agree with you that we should have a zero vision of drug mortality. I have raised these questions several times, but we have a little different input into this, I think. What will the police bet on? In 2016, 1.4 per cent of prosecutions involved serious drug offences. It's not much. Since the major efforts were against their own use, I think it is important to direct the police's efforts in a different way. One might wonder why people get caught up in addiction and become addicted. In more socio-economically vulnerable areas, the way forward is about other things than police. For example, it is about having a school that can accommodate all students and give them final grades.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-368	Madam President, I would like Of course, there is not one thing that solves the drug situation in Sweden, such as the drug-liberal attitude of young restaurant workers. We need to enlighten more, talk about the problems and train the staff. Why does social security always work in office hours and never on evenings and weekends when many young people are out? There's a lot we can do. However, we cannot escape the fact that there has been a lost decade of restrictive drugs policy in Sweden, and I regret that.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-370	Madam President, I would like We have some common entrances, Kristina. In fact, Sweden's drugs policy is one of the most restrictive in the world. Yet things go wrong in some places. Then we must see what we can do, and it is a lot about action in those areas that are more socio-economically vulnerable. We must ensure that there are good preschools and schools. We will also have a social service that is on the offensive in the evening. That's where I totally agree with you.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-371	Madam President, I would like Yet it is the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government, together with the Left Party, which has allowed it to be as it is today, for example, that LVM and LVU institutions testify to the fact that drugs flow. Morgan Johansson says that we should not have any open drug sales in Sweden, and yet the police say that there are only 48 open drug sites in Stockholm where everyone knows that drugs are being sold.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-373	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Kristina for a good speech. I believe that you and I share the view of the misery of drugs and the need to have a very strict anti-drug policy. I grew up in southern Stockholm, in Rågsved, and have seen at close range what terrible misery laxity vis-à-vis drugs can bring about for people who encounter it. At the same time, there is an exciting discussion around the world. Canada is now legalizing cannabis, and some members of this hall from some of your alliance sisters are also advocating legalization of cannabis. Are you having a conversation with them about this, Kristina? Should we legalise cannabis in Sweden?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-377	Madam President, I would like To claim that there is an exciting debate around the world is to use the wrong word. It is a tragic debate that is often due to ignorance, which gives in to something that is a huge problem and one of the most common causes of death. No, I am not in favour of a liberal drugs policy, quite the contrary. I am very much in favour of a restrictive drugs policy, and I hope that with my debates here, which will certainly tire out one or another, I can help us at least to discuss the drugs situation. Then we can hopefully get a better knowledge and an increased discussion around Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-379	Madam President, I would like As I said, Kristina Axén Olin, I have no doubt that you are in favour of a restrictive drugs policy, but I am intimidated by the signals that come from some Members of this Chamber, from some of your alliance sisters, who are now advocating that we go the Canadian way and legalise lighter narcotic drugs. I would urge you to help and take this discussion with your alliance sisters and brothers, to ensure that we do not end up on a sloping path towards more liberalisation of drugs policy.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-381	Madam President, I would like I am also frightened, Dag, at the drug-liberal attitude that is beginning to exist in more and more areas, both in Sweden and in the rest of the world, even among people in this room. But I am even more alarmed by the fact that we have had a government that has removed narcotics police, which has eased the penalties for drug crime, which has allowed us to have LVM homes and LVU homes where drugs flow and which have ensured that we have the drug situation we have today instead of intervening and giving the resources to the police, customs and the legislation that they need. It worries me even more.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-382	I would remind the House that all Members of this House speak through the President. Although it feels like speaking directly to the person in the second speaker's chair, it is through the President that we are speaking, and that is in order for us to have a good tone in this House. We also use first and last names when we speak in the Chamber.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-383	Madam President, I would like The four minutes I now have at my disposal to talk about the need to strengthen the work for a zero vision against suicide, I dedicate to the four people in Sweden who today see no other way out of life than to take their own life. Ten years ago, the Parliament decided in agreement on an action programme for suicide prevention, but the statistics have remained completely unchanged since then. Every year about 1,500 people take their lives in Sweden. In addition, there are about 15 000 suicide attempts every year. Each suicide affects a large number of people. Suffering for the relatives is very great. Those closest to those who took their lives are at increased risk of mental illness. When someone takes his own life, the message is sent that society was not enough. We couldn't save that person. But we can do everything in our power to learn from what has happened and to ensure that system failures are detected and corrected. Today, it is far from self-evident that care should follow up on someone who has tried to kill himself, despite the fact that this group is well defined and is more likely to carry out a completed suicide compared to other risk groups. The fact that no more effort is being put into providing support to these vulnerable individuals so that suicide attempts are not repeated or end in suicide is remarkable. I am convinced, Madam President, that preventive crisis centres are needed to tackle the problems and follow up those who have tried to kill themselves. Staff at a crisis centre can ensure that collaboration between different bodies works so that individuals with needs receive the right support, in both the short and long term. Compared to early investments in the zero vision of road deaths, little has happened. Initially, a very ambitious analysis and evaluation of the factors that led to people driving themselves to death was carried out in traffic. In the area of suicide, this has still not happened. No human should have to feel that there is no other way out than to take his own life. Every suicide is an indescribable tragedy. There is a need for more research and knowledge on how suicide can be prevented, and I hope that the House will be able to agree that the Moderates' proposal to double the funding for suicide research can be heard. In the area of mental health, there is a national coordinator, and in order to distinguish mental health from suicide prevention, I believe that a coordinator focusing on the particular problem of suicide should be appointed. Reducing suicides is one of our most important tasks, and politics must not fail here. Early and coordinated action is likely to change the course of many of the people who otherwise see no other way out than to take their own lives.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-392	Madam President, I would like I'm going to tell you about an occasion when I met a young girl who I was sitting with for a while. We talked about how common mental illness and self-harm are as a result. It's more common than we adults think that young girls and boys hurt themselves – that they create a kind of hand valve. After our conversation, I remembered how I felt as a child but especially as a teenager. That inborn feeling of powerlessness, frustration and loneliness and that I really just wanted to scream and help me! But I couldn't because no one would understand. I was too afraid that my family secret would then be revealed. Madam President, I would like What I'm talking about is a social problem that many say must be solved but which is difficult to address if you don't understand the reasons for it. In ten years, mental illness among children and young people has tripled. We have nearly 5,700 children aged ten to fourteen who are taking antidepressants. Of course, we need to think about why it looks like it does. Has prescription of drugs become a simple solution to a complex social problem? Has society created unattainable ideals that we all want to achieve as quickly as possible? In pursuit of the unattainable, one feels mentally ill — do we overtake that stress on our children? We are very much in agreement that this must stop, but we must not just put out fires instead of investigating the cause of the fire and, above all, how to prevent them. Of course, we need to increase access to rapid response, but the most important thing is to ensure that our children become resilient and learn the reasons why it looks like it does. Only then can we seriously prevent mental illness. Children should grow up with present guardians who ensure that children are given space to play and not become infected with the stress of the adult world. We need to strengthen guardians so that children grow up under safe circumstances. The guardians must be present so that the children can connect with them. If this does not work, we need to ensure that there is enough competence so that society sees the signals when something is not right, before it leads to mental illness. We all have to gain by being proactive when it comes to talking about mental illness. What are the consequences otherwise — overmedication of antidepressants, self - injury, suicide, and unregulated beauty care that distorts and destroys fully functioning human bodies, as this has become a popular way of trying to improve self - esteem? Therefore, in the hope of preventing this terrible growing social problem, we Moderates propose a comprehensive package of measures: effective suicide prevention, establishing a national strategy to strengthen psychiatry and reduce mental illness, strengthening follow-up and supervision in child and youth psychiatry, improving access to school nurses and school counselors and, of course, shortening waiting times to BUP. Finally, Madam President, no child should have to suffer from mental illness. No ten-year-old should have to take antidepressants because the adult world has failed to see them. This is by far the most important issue that we politicians are dealing with. All other political work falls like flat if our children are unhappy.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-401	Madam President, I would like I would like to use the general political debate to speak precisely about Swedish health care. In a well-developed industrial country like Sweden with great prosperity, you should be able to expect to get the care you need – when you need it. Unfortunately, this is not always the case, and we see that progress is going in the wrong direction. In terms of quality, Sweden largely has world-class healthcare, once you get the care you need. The problem is that you often have to wait unnecessarily long for surgery or treatment. In recent years, access, not least to cancer surgery and treatments, has deteriorated significantly and most of all in the county councils governed by Social Democrats. In my home country Östergötland, the number of patients who have waited too long for surgery has five times in just four years. Is this only because Region Östergötland and Sweden have had a Social Democratic leadership over the last four years? No, the answer is more nuanced, of course. However, the fact remains that the queue development that we can look at throughout the country took quite apace after the Red-Green Government abolished the queue billions imposed by the Alliance Government. Madam President, I would like One issue that I would also like to raise and which I think arouses feelings in many of us here is cancer care. We all know someone who has suffered from cancer. It is the most common cause of death in Sweden, and right now half a million people live with cancer in our country. Fortunately, care is constantly evolving and getting better. But we can always do more. The previous alliance government introduced a national cancer strategy, and we now want to update it to a new national cancer strategy 2.0. In it, we want 500 million of our total of 3 queue billions to be earmarked to shorten the cancer queues. However, we should be completely honest with, as is often said on the Social Democratic side, that not only queue billions are enough to shorten queues and improve care. However, we must ensure that these queue billions are introduced now in order to remedy the avalanche-growing queues. In addition to the earmarked efforts in the queue billions, we would like Moderates to ensure that the new national cancer strategy ensures that the care chain is more coherent and that rehabilitation is included in the standardised healthcare processes. In order also to be able to detect cancer in the past, we need to look at the organisation of health care, because most people who have the most common types of cancer go first to primary care. However, care in Sweden is far too hospital-heavy; we know that. We need to strengthen and develop primary care, which is too small a part of total care and today does not have sufficient breadth and competence. Madam President, I would like Cancer is the common disease of our time, and no one should have to risk dying in cancer queues. Sweden therefore needs a new government that can change up work, short queues and improve cancer care. We introduced the national cancer strategy, and we intend to develop it. We also managed to halve the queues left by the government Persson, and we can also cut the queues that the government Löfven is now leaving behind. But then Sweden needs a new moderate-led government.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-410	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Weinerhall, for a very good speech. I agreed with much of it, and I thought there was a lot of wisdom in it. I still have two questions. How is it that the queues started to grow as early as 2013, when we still had a queue billion? You were talking about Region Östergötland. But I often talk about the Västra Götaland region. How can it be that 20 percent of all newcomers in the queue come from a single county council, a county council that also makes large surpluses?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-412	Madam President, I would like I thank Dag Larsson for his question. Instead, I can turn the question around: how is it that you closed the queue billions, which we know is the single most important reason why the queues decreased after the Persson Government? If the queues increased already in 2013, why did you make sure that the queues increased even more avalanche and removed the queue billions? I think that is a more legitimate question to ask. If you look at different county councils, I can take Dalarna as an example, where not even half of the patients receive treatment on time. You Social Democrats have been in charge there for 92 years. But thank God we now get a moderate-led management in Dalarna County Council. Hopefully, we'll be able to cut the lines there.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-414	Madam President, I would like I have met a great many health and county politicians from all political camps, including from the moderate camp. They were quite in agreement, even moderate county politicians, that the old queue billions were unwieldy and that it also led to wrong priorities. A new kind of queue billion has been introduced here in Stockholm. Unlike the rest of the country, where 4% of patients are in patient choice queue, 12% of patients in Stockholm are in so-called patient choice queue. Financial instruments are being steered, and care priorities are being misplaced. We absolutely need short queues in Sweden. But we don't need the old queue billions back. It led to wrong priorities in Health Care Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-417	Madam President, I would like Of course, Dag Larsson can have a point in that the previous queue billion was not pointed enough. We are now making sure that it is. We develop it to include rehabilitation, return visits and a wide range of other things that we see are absolutely necessary. But I am a little surprised that we must never hear the Social Democrats come up with their own solutions. There are always attacks on our queue billions. But it would be nice if we could have a constructive conversation about how we forward solve the queue problems. I agree.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-419	Madam President, I would like There is much in the Swedish healthcare system that we can be proud of, not least the healthcare professionals who daily make contributions and support both patients and relatives. Our advanced care is among the best in the world, and we have leading companies in medicine and biotechnology. At the same time, there are articles and reports about major differences across the kingdom, especially that people are not being treated on time. That is not acceptable. Reforms are needed. The healthcare queues have increased significantly since 20 14, when the S-MP government took over and the so-called queue billion disappeared. This has led to thousands of patients being placed in a care queue and not receiving their care on time. That is not acceptable. Worse still, there are so many differences in the country. Madam President, I would like Let me mention some good examples – a display window for Sweden, which we talked about. In my home region, moderate-led Halland with over 300 000 inhabitants, we top the national lists by having the shortest care queues. I am pleased that Halland is highlighted in these contexts, as we have for a long time prioritised quality and accessibility as a strategic work. We have done this not by making fewer demands and not by lowering the level, but by increasing our promises to the Hallends. Our care guarantee is 60 days for new visits and treatment and not 90 days that are statutory for the kingdom. This is something I am proud of. But with that said, I am not satisfied with how it looks in Sweden, and in my first speech here in Parliament I want to highlight this. We Moderates want to restore and reinforce the queue billions to 3 billion. This reinforced queue billion should be used to shorten the queues for visits, surgery and return visits within specialist care and to shorten the queues for BUP and cancer care. According to the latest statistics from SKL regarding queue follow-up to specialist care, nearly nine out of ten patients receive their care on time in Halland. This compares with Jämtland Härjedalen, Västerbotten and Västernorrland, where only more than four out of ten patients receive their care on time. These regional differences are totally unacceptable. Your place of residence should not decide whether you receive treatment on time. Madam President, I would like With the possibility of being able to access their journal online via mobile banking, it is still strange that different regions' computer systems do not communicate with each other, and in some regions not even within the county councils' different levels of care. In our country, we know that people move around and, among other things, study elsewhere, and we urge people to actively choose their health care centre. Then it is reasonable for the journal to accompany me as a patient or a relative if you receive care in another county council or in another region. For me, this is about patient safety. At national level, we must make it easier for information between the principals and also within the principals to be made available safely. This is step one. In the long term, I see a national journal system ahead of me. Advanced medical care is already taking place in your own home. Several government investigations, such as Anna Nergårdh's God and close care, point to, among other things, moving more care from hospitals to primary care and municipal home care. This is good and in the right direction. The care that does not require the hospital's resources can be carried out with advantage, both financially and in health terms, closer to the patient. In order to get that patient-proof movement, it is also of great importance that the journal goes with the patient. Finally, Madam President, the health of the future, the health of our citizens and the ability of health professionals to deliver care are three of the major issues of our time. I am taking with me my Halland experience into this House and will push for a healthier, safer and closer to Caring Sweden.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-429	Madam President, I would like For some time now, I have the confidence to lead the board of the Centre for Gender Research at Karlstad University together with the responsible officials. It is a meeting place where we share both ongoing research and applied knowledge. Right now, much of our focus is on the Gender Academy. The Gender Academy is part of the letter of intent about the Academy of Smart Specialization between Region Värmland and Karlstad University 2016-2020. The aim is to create more benefit from the research for Värmland's industry, county councils and municipalities and to strengthen the Värmland research environments. The companies participating in the Gender Academy develop their ability to use diversity and gender equality as a tool for innovation and business benefits. I've always burned for a level playing field, regardless of gender and background. That my daughter and her three brothers should have equal opportunities, rights and responsibilities in life should be self-evident, but unfortunately that is not the case. Just as obviously it should be that those who come from a home where no books are crowded in the bookshelf or where the adults do not have any academic points nevertheless have the desire and by adults are encouraged to study further. Unfortunately, that is not always the case either. For me, this is about equality and equality, which are established policies that we often stand in this House debating. Gender science is not a policy area but an interdisciplinary academic discipline. Gender science's research results often serve as a support for gender equality efforts but are not the basis for gender mainstreaming. In fact, the most thorough criticism of gender equality policy often comes from gender science alone. The basic features of the subject include a scientific-critical approach as well as an active, conscious and change-oriented relationship to power and hierarchies and a problematising of the gender category. This is the strength of the subject. Madam President, I would like Today, gender research and gender studies are being attacked by dark forces across Europe. We see this happening in Hungary, Germany, Poland, the United States with several countries – and also here in Sweden. Disciplines are seen as a threat to what is claimed to be normal, natural and right. What exactly does a gender researcher do? Yes, it stresses the importance of challenging what is perceived as given and asking new research questions. It is one of the most important tasks of the Academy and crucial to the development of new knowledge. Today, many gender researchers work from what is called intersectional perspectives. Governmental notions in society need to be challenged based on a complex understanding of how different principles of gender, gender identity, sexualization and more create inequalities. This is particularly important in our time when inequality is normalized, gender-crossing is called into question and racism is clear – examples can be made many. It is about time we took our responsibility and objectively discuss differences, similarities, opportunities and obstacles to a dignified discussion of gender, power and sexuality. We do this best by having an open-minded discussion based on facts, where we discuss norms and values and not claims that have no research behind them. There is excellent and many years of research to lean on.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-436	Madam President, I would like That was an interesting speech. I just have a few questions. It was a long series of articles about gender studies in Svenska Dagbladet, by Ivar Arpi. He criticized a lot, including the use of literature on gender studies in all kinds of courses. I wonder how you look at that, Gunilla Svantorp? My second question concerns a programme that went to Norway, Hjernevask. It is apparently not even allowed to be shown in Sweden – several people have tried to get SVT to show the program, but they have received no. If gender science is so well founded, shouldn't you tolerate criticism and programs that are critical of gender science? It concerns parts of gender science, I would like to point out, not all gender studies.
i-8X9xha3qWqKEdPipZmoqz9	Madam President and Robert Stenkvist! One of my board members at the Centre for Gender Research at Karlstad University, Ulf Mellström, responded to one of Ivar Arpi's articles. He wrote this: As little as the professor of strength science can control how his research results are used in applied engineering, I can control how my research results choose to be interpreted and used in gender equality policy issues. ..................................................... In fact, one cannot really know how it is used, but this is an interdisciplinary research field. It is therefore self-evident that the results obtained by gender professors and researchers are used and produced in collaboration with many other faculties. It's really important. I would like to ask Robert Stenkvist, Madam President, about the fact that Hungary has just removed certain texts from the curriculum for preschool. However, my speaking time has now run out.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-442	Madam President, I would like I never heard the question, but it sounded interesting. I am not against gender science as such; there are very good parts. What I'm saying is... and I think I stand for it-- that all gender science doesn't rest on a scientific basis. Nor are they the same requirements as for areas of physics. That's where you have tough demands, and you replicate. Is it replicated in the same way in gender science as in physics? I wonder.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-444	Madam President, I would like Now Robert Stenkvist stood and claimed things that are not true – that it is not replicated as much. I would like to say: show me the research results that say that it is not replicated as much! In Hungary, the curriculum for preschool has changed. Writings on combating gender stereotypes were removed, and instead choices were made between religious education and ethics. The question I wanted to ask was whether Robert Stenkvist believes that it increases equality, but he is now not able to answer.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-446	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of September, millions of Swedes went to the ballot boxes to decide which government Sweden would receive. About the same time, just a few days earlier, however, about a hundred thousand children made a much more important walk: They went for the first time in their lives to school. They were excited, excited, and curious about what the adult world outside the home has to offer. They had empty backpacks but were ready to fill them with new skills to carry with them not only into adulthood but throughout life. School, Madam President, is the single most important issue of welfare policy. I apologise to everyone in this House who thinks that any other area deserves the same space, but there is no other welfare area and no other welfare policy that creates life chances in the same way – which allows people to actually shape their own lives and choose their own paths. In Sweden, we basically agree that one should not have to inherit the alienation of one's parents. It is only through a well-functioning education policy that we can keep this promise. It is also through a well-functioning school and education that we ensure that we supply skills to a small, export-dependent country on the outskirts of Europe, which Sweden actually is. If we want to compete with knowledge and not with low wages, it starts with well-functioning schools and education. That is why, Madam President, it is unacceptable that one in three of those who start school this autumn – if previous trends persist – will not pass school. Every sixth student does not qualify from comprehensive school even to go to high school, and as many leave high school every year without having completed their upper secondary education. It is clear that Swedish school and education policy need higher ambitions to ensure that all pupils, regardless of their background, place of birth and parents and regardless of which municipality they were born in, receive the education they deserve. This is possible if we choose to prioritise what is right and what is right within the education system. We need to change today's order, where we try to patch and fix and come up with late efforts and major support programmes to save students when they have already gone wrong in school. What is needed instead is early intervention and a focus on early knowledge. Those students who fall out of Swedish school every year, who do not pass comprehensive school or upper secondary school, often slip after early school. They are already losing their skills in primary school. We have often heard stories about preschool teachers who can testify to which students will not be able to pass high school even when they are five years old. At the same time PISA testifies to falling knowledge, and high school teachers testify to falling pre-knowledge among the students. There is a need for more focus on mathematics, in Swedish and in language, and it is needed early. All students need to have a stable base to stand on and then be able to stand on it throughout school. The focus on knowledge in Swedish schools must be strengthened. The last four years have been a lost time for Swedish school students. The lack of reforms, I believe, does not testify to the lack of interest of the current and outgoing government, but to an ignorance of which reforms are needed. It is high time that Sweden got a government that takes hold of the problems that Swedish schools have.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-457	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe says that the last four years have been a lost time for Swedish school. This follows the claim that we should have early intervention in school. Then Erik Bengtzboe has to explain this to me, speaking of early interventions: In what way is it lost time for Swedish school to strengthen staffing in primary school, to ensure that we have more employees in school – there are 28 000 more teachers in school now than four years ago – and to have smaller groups in preschool? I think Erik Bengtzboe needs to explain this to me.
i-QtY2zHRFhyUbseNykXJx2C	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linus Sköld, for the question! The answer to Linus Sköld's question is: No, it does not. It is not lost time for Swedish school, but it is insufficient effort. We see that the number of adults in Swedish schools has increased; however, we do not see that the number of teachers has increased at the same rate as the student base. This means that we have accelerating problems with lack of teachers. We have a density of teachers that I believe neither Linus Sköld nor the Social Democrats nor I and the Moderates are satisfied with. As the number of adults in school has increased, the number of students has also grown – that is to be understood – and administration has increased, which means that time spent with students does not always increase. Of course, more adults are good at school, but more focus is also needed on knowledge. More teaching time is needed in math. More teaching time is needed in Swedish. Better follow-up is needed to ensure that all students bring the skills they need. This government has not delivered it.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-463	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe says that children should not inherit their parents' vulnerability. At the same time, Erik Bengtzboe and his party are opposed to introducing state grants that support the distribution of resources as needed, and at the same time Erik Bengtzboe and his party are in favour of a school market that strongly segregated where students go from what background they have. I don't think it makes sense.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-464	Madam President, I would like These are rather strong words for a social democrat when we can see that segregation in Sweden increases when the Social Democrats are in the government. The basic problem, however, is not that people have the opportunity to choose a school; the basic problem is the housing segregation we have. We all agree in this House that we need to ensure that the resources of the Swedish school go where they are really needed. However, this does not go through further divisive targeted state subsidies. The Social Democrats went to elections four years ago to abolish them, but now they have expanded it by even more.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-467	Madam President, I would like The media broke up the school fire last week in Gottsunda School in Uppsala. Suddenly, 483 students stood without school and classroom. Two underage girls were arrested at the scene. Very large values went up in smoke, and the girls are likely to be liable for payment for the rest of their lives. If my data is correct, one girl showed no regret at all about what happened on social media, but rallied about how stupid the police officers were, which unfortunately says a little bit about the spirit of time. The reason for raising this topic here is that we have a steeply rising curve of school fires in our country – the vast majority are also constructed. In 2017, 667 Swedish schools were burned; 429 of them were established. The number of school fires built has increased by nearly 50 per cent in the last two years. We had a peak in 2008, but overall we have seen a rising curve for a long time. In addition – and perhaps equally remarkable – Sweden stands out significantly when it comes to constructed school fires internationally. In 2012 there were five school fires in Greece, while in Sweden the school fires cost half a billion. That is more than all school fires cost in the whole of the United States, which is a much larger country. Now, however, the United States has other problems in schools, as everyone knows. When I read articles on this subject, many return to the fact that we do not take the problem of school fires seriously. This applies to us politicians and government officials. This view, that we do not take the problem seriously, I read in articles from a long time back to today. It is time to tackle this problem now; it was time yesterday. A fireman was given an explanation in SVT for the increase in school fires in our country on the evening of Gottsunda School. In conclusion, the fireman said that we have too few recreation centres and that mental illness is increasing. It is, as everyone understands, completely useless explanations. When I grew up, there were considerably fewer recreation centres, and virtually no schools burned. What can be seen from surveys is that in schools where there is order and where the students are living, it is very rare to burn. In messy schools and in schools in some vulnerable areas, it burns much more often. The conclusion is that we need to put school in order in all areas of our country, including in vulnerable areas. We need to get messy schools less messy. We also need to focus more on what is right and what is wrong, both in school and in society as a whole. In addition, we must make our schools much more fireproof with practical measures. We must take steps to ensure that schools resist fire and burglary much better. For example, we need to put surveillance cameras on schools in certain areas. This is already happening today, but the scope should be increased. Of course, all these measures will cost less than school fires today. We will probably also have to adjust the regulations regarding the rules applicable to the construction of schools.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-478	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist talks about school fires. I would like to talk to Robert Stenkvist about education policy for a moment. We heard him earlier in the debate attacking Gunilla Svantorp and talking about science. In my opinion, all good school policies and activities are based on a scientific basis. I was going to recite some Swedish democratic proposals and then ask Robert Stenkvist how they are based on a scientific basis. Let us consider the following: We keep children separate from each other from each other from whether they can obey or not, that is, putting mischievous children in emergency schools. We can also do it from where they were born. We can put foreign-born children in special schools. We can introduce school uniforms, have grades and have grades from early school years. In what way are these proposals based on a scientific basis?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-481	Madam President, I would like There is science that shows that students learn a lot worse if it is messy and insecure in the classrooms. If students feel insecurity and threats, the brain shuts down for learning. This is scientifically proven. We must therefore have quiet classrooms where students can study in peace and quiet. Classrooms aren't quiet. I think we can prove it scientifically, too. I myself live in Botkyrka. In northern Botkyrka there are classrooms where many students want nothing more than to learn things, but it is not possible because it is too messy. We'd be happy to do a scientific study on that, too. As for the language, it is an axiom that if we have students in the classroom who do not know the Swedish language and the teacher teaches in Swedish there are problems. We can prove that 2+2=4 as well. This goes without saying.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-486	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I would like to say that Stenkvist's experiences from Botkyrka are not scientific. That's not how you prove something scientific. Then I would like to go on to say that, of course, we agree on this with quiet classrooms. Of course, we're going to have studies in the classrooms. The question is how it is created and how it is done in a successful way that can make children feel that the adult world is turning to them instead of being punished and charged with responsibility for how they are doing in school. It is also about teachers' leadership. The proposals of the Swedish Democrats are authoritarian and segregated. They have no scientific basis.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-489	Madam President, I would like The main scientific basis is that the Swedish school has fallen like a stone in the PISA studies. You can't explain that. After all, we have used the pedagogy and politics that you represent, and this has clearly not worked. Is there something wrong with the PISA and Timss investigations? They show that Swedish school results have fallen like a stone. We were far better off when there was more order and authority, as Linus Sköld put it. These are clear facts.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-491	Madam President, I would like The main task of the University is to convey knowledge and education. The University is important for creating prosperity and an open and democratic society. We in the Left Party believe that knowledge is a democratic right, which means that it is an important objective to broaden recruitment to the university. Social, gender and ethnic mismatch recruitment has declined in recent decades, thanks to student funding, expanded colleges and more and new educations. However, there are still significant differences between different educations and different higher education institutions in the extent to which recruitment has been broadened. It is mainly in the traditional education and older universities that the work of broadening recruitment has been less successful. All higher education institutions must be better at using the tools available. For example, it is a question of making greater use of admission methods other than grades, as grading can preserve the social differences from primary and secondary school. There is also a need to mention the inflation of grades in independent schools. Those attending these schools benefit from admissions even though they may be less equipped to assimilate higher education. A survey published last spring by the Swedish National Agency for Education also showed that pupils from municipal upper secondary schools performed better during the first year, even though they had slightly lower grades than pupils from independent upper secondary schools. The Left Party also believes that the university should promote gender equality and counteract gender stereotyping educational choices, for example by integrating gender perspectives into education. The knowledge and competence of LGBTQ issues definitely need to be improved. There is also a need for improved physical accessibility and support for students with functional variations. Access to higher education must be available to all, and adjustments are needed. It is one of the foundations of the Left Party's higher education policy. Living - on means of study is a necessary prerequisite for many to be able to study. However, the fear of indebtedness is an obstacle for many. The proportion of the grant must therefore be increased. Sickness, parenting and more often mean poor finances and less opportunities to carry out their studies. It is positive that people with long-term or chronic illnesses have now been given the opportunity to study part-time and to be on sick leave part-time. It is a step in the right direction, but better coordination with the security systems of all students is needed. Even students must be able to be sick without living on borrowed money. This week, it was a year since Metoo exploded. Women in academia testified about events in their own business in a petition last December. They demanded that managers and university leaders ensure that women continue not to be double punished and forced to leave universities and their careers, while the male perpetrators, without reprisals, are allowed to continue harassing female colleagues and students. Several of the stories they shared were about male professors and supervisors who forced or suggested sex as a way for the female doctoral student or subordinates to gain benefits. A woman was told by her supervisor that he would not help her any more if she could not imagine having sex with him. Women testify to abuse and even rapes that are smoothed over and when she is allowed to leave while he can even continue to rise in the ranks. We can't have an equal academy and an equal college as long as we have it like this. The gender power system must change. We need a gender equality policy and an equal college.
i-JbqTJ3QofBDrHCochxnJqe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ilona Waldau, for your speech. Here it is stated that the university's recruitment needs to be broadened and that one of the problems with the inadequate widening of recruitment is the one-sided focus on grade selection. At the same time, however, we know that the grades are tamely uncertain, because they are not anchored to anything. In Sweden there are no finals, no matriculation examination and no national examinations that are centrally corrected and are reasonable to follow up. For this reason, the Moderates have proposed that national tests should be centrally corrected by the National Agency for Education. We also think that you need to review whether there should be no form of matriculation examination from upper secondary school in order to guarantee which knowledge is linked to a particular grade. All of this has been opposed by the Left Party in the past. Would it not be good to be able to anchor the grades against certain levels of knowledge in order to guarantee their level?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-504	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Erik Bengtzboe! I think we need to look at admission to the university from a much broader perspective. The grades do not measure all knowledge and do not show everything. Therefore, we need to look at how the university can instead have other admission areas, i.e. other ways to adopt students. We also need to think more about how we can work with Komvux and a training bridge between primary, secondary and higher education. The grades are segregating but also stigmatising. That is why we simply need to review admissions. We also need to review how we measure knowledge at school.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-507	Madam President, I would like I think that we all agree in essence that there needs to be flexible opportunities for admission to the university. This is also why the university has very free rein when it comes to setting regulations for admission. Unfortunately, the interest from the university in using this is limited. It is simply cheaper and easier to go to grade selection. Most of the research also shows that the grade selection is the most stable selection. But the Left Party is convinced that we need to change the way we look at the grades sounds interesting. Would you like to elaborate on that?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-509	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that the university today is far too bad at using the instruments available for other ways of admission than the grades. They have that possibility but often choose the grades, as we were told here, because it is easier and perhaps also cheaper. I would like to point out that what I want to see is a change in how we make admissions to the university. We also need to go through the entire primary and secondary education system. That is where we lay the foundations for further education.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-511	Madam President, I would like When I was faced with a new assignment, a wise person said to me: Make sure you train and move! It's a prerequisite for you to be able to do it. The person in question was, of course, right. We're good to move. Physical activity and movements contribute to improved public health, enhanced mental ability and increased knowledge learning. Several schools in our country have concrete experiences that more physical activity during school time leads to improved school outcomes for students. Studies have also been researched and conducted that show the concrete link between pulse-enhancing activities and increased performance in school. Madam President, I would like It is an urgent societal challenge to secure everyone's opportunities for a good schooling. Study time will contribute to the development of both character and knowledge. The pupils who are particularly lagging behind in terms of knowledge and health are not rarely those who live in economically and socially vulnerable contexts. Especially for these students, it is important that the school makes use of the knowledge about the link between physical activity and increased learning when designing school content. Several good efforts are already being made in many schools. Several schools have applied for state grants for health-promoting school development and within this framework increased the number of opportunities for pupils to engage in pulse-enhancing activities. This is already proving to be an improvement in school performance. At the same time, inequality arises, as not all schools make use of this opportunity. We want to change that, Madam President. The Christian Democrats want to see more scheduled sports hours in the Swedish school. We note that our students have less scheduled sports than students in many other European countries. Under pressure, the government has now agreed to increase the number of sports hours in primary school from 500 to 600 hours. We welcome the increase in the number of hours but, at the same time, note that we are not satisfied. The Christian Democrats want to go one step further than all other parties and increase the number of sports hours to 700. In our proposal, this increase in the number of sports hours means a reduction in the number of hours for the student's choice. Our proposal also means – and I would like to emphasise this – that from a further perspective we are addressing the challenge of increased mental illness among children and young people. Studies clearly show how physical activity contributes to better mental well-being. Madam President, I would like To sum up, there are too many achievements in further increasing the number of sports hours in all schools so that we could afford not to. We will therefore continue to work and take further steps towards a more prosperous school, because it is one of the best investments we can make.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-518	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Loord talks about physical health and the importance of physical activity for health in a way that is almost poetic. I can only agree. Of course it is. But I would like to add a perspective that is that we want the entire school environment to be health-promoting. You should feel good about going to school in Sweden. I have noted a proposal from the Christian Democrats that student health, where special educators, school nurses, curators and so on are on the competence to design a health-promoting school environment, should be moved from school to county councils. After all, student health has a clear preventive mission. Landstingen works with treatment in this respect. How would this proposal support a health-promoting school?
i-755yz8qDYMnZV3Poqz7hGk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linus Sköld, for your question and for your agreement in my speech! It is an urgent issue that we continue to strengthen the health of students, as we know that good basic health creates good conditions for increased learning and knowledge acquisition. Unfortunately, we see that mental illness is increasing among children and young people. It is a problem that needs to be addressed from a number of perspectives. I get several statements from schools and students that you feel that you end up between the chairs and that the care chain is not really connected. That's why we think it would be better if the county council went in as the principal.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-521	Madam President, I would like This means that the organiser of the school would lose the ability to do so in a health-promoting way. When we have an increasing mental illness, we would thus benefit from the transfer of the expertise of psychologists, curators and school nurses, who know how to provide health promotion work and how to build a health promotion organisation, from the person responsible for the organisation to another body. Is that clear?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-522	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld! It is not about moving specific occupational groups, but about who has the organisational responsibility. There are currently shortcomings in the care chain. Children and young people end up between the chairs. It is therefore important that we get a new order for children's and young people's mental health.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-523	Madam President, I would like Today I want to talk about how we can equip our young people with creative abilities that are needed more than ever in a global and changing world. The school's mission is to convey knowledge and prepare students to function in the labour market and in society. But the school is also an institution of education. It is extremely important that each student develop the ability to assimilate knowledge and put it in context, so that in the next step, based on knowledge and experience, he can understand and analyze events and movements in the outside world. Formation is crucial to man's ability to orient himself in society and to the outside world and history. Formation also gives independence and contributes to liberation from given authorities and structures. Culture and education go hand in hand. Therefore, every young person must be given the opportunity to develop his creative power and thus be given the means to understand the world. It is also about increasing the school's ambitions for education. All students, regardless of their orientation, should be given the opportunity to develop their education and creativity. It benefits both the individual student and society as a whole. That is why we in the Green Party want to reintroduce aesthetic subjects on all upper secondary school programmes. Madam President, I would like I do not quite understand why the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, show such disinterest in education. It was the bourgeois parties that, under the previous alliance government, abolished the aesthetic subjects. When the Red-Green Government presented a proposal to Parliament last spring that the aesthetic subjects should be reintroduced in all programmes of upper secondary school, the proposal was rejected by a majority of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. While the bourgeois dismiss culture in school as unimportant, Volvo Cars, for example, takes the help of artistic and creative methods to challenge, spur and stimulate future production leaders to new views and out-of-the-box thinking. We see that in more and more professions and not only in the creative world, employees today need aesthetic skills. It is about being able to present a service or product in a creative way or be able to understand different cultural expressions in your job. We in the Green Party will continue to insist on the importance of education and put forward new proposals to give all high school students the opportunity to read aesthetic subjects once again.
i-31L3HDCbyoYexSMsnzSsti	Madam President, I would like Please, Anna Sibinska, for the post! Culture and education undoubtedly go hand in hand. It goes without saying that education plays a role in the school system, and the role of culture in school is extremely important. That is also why there is compact support in this House because we have so much aesthetic activity in Swedish schools throughout primary school. It is something that has been extended for a long time. During the last term of office, the government, led by the Green Party, proposed to reintroduce a mandatory requirement that all pupils in high school, whether they like it or not, should study aesthetic subjects. The proposal also included halving the amount of time spent on upper secondary school work. This received stinging criticism from the Swedish National Agency for Education, among other things, that it is not possible to deliver high school work at the limited time. It was therefore sensible for Parliament to vote against this proposal. I believe, however, that the Green Party is still sticking to the proposal. My question is: do you not take on board the criticism that the government's own expert authorities have made against your proposal?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-533	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe takes up the proposal that was voted down. We still maintain that it is important to reintroduce aesthetic subjects in high school. Today it has been seen that only those students who choose their own aesthetic subject are taught. The secondary school inquiry has shown that a majority of high school students today gain much less aesthetic knowledge in upper secondary school than was the case before 2011. We see it as a right to get aesthetic subjects back on the school schedule.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-535	Madam President, I would like I think that Anna Sibinska explains quite clearly in her speech the great differences that exist in how you view adult people's learning. Just because something is optional doesn't mean it doesn't exist. It is clear that if it is optional, fewer will choose it than if it is mandatory. The question is with what right we impose upon students who do not want to read aesthetic activities precisely aesthetic activities. The really interesting thing about the question is why the Environmental Party takes so lightly the criticism from the Swedish National Agency for Education about halving the time for high school work.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-538	Madam President, I would like We don't take the criticism lightly. What I am talking about here today is the importance of re-establishing aesthetic subjects in school. We know that early on, for example, music facilitates language learning. It becomes easier to embrace mathematics and so on. There is a lot of research that confirms that aesthetic subjects contribute to students' development.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-539	Madam President, I would like Sweden's labour market and business are in a changing and demanding situation. Competence and knowledge among skilled employees are crucial for companies to grow and the public sector to continue to develop. The labour market today requires more and more skilled workers. Upper secondary education is crucial for entering the labour market. However, higher education is often not enough, but higher education in higher education, universities or universities of applied sciences is increasingly necessary to meet competition and skills requirements. The industry's very tough demands for rapid transitions and opportunities for further training in principle throughout the working life place great demands on educational opportunities throughout the country. We Social Democrats throughout the 20th century have been investing in expanding colleges throughout the country. This has been a very good result. We see clearly in the places that have been given the opportunity to college that it has developed whole regions in a very favorable way. During the last term of office there was a substantial expansion of both higher education and polytechnic education, which has meant a lot for the whole of Sweden to grow. This has strengthened individuals' opportunities for higher education regardless of background or social status, which has not least contributed to a better life and greatly increased conditions for a safe working life. It has also, which is very important, contributed to a much better development of the labour market, thereby gaining access to the required skills and continuous development of skills outside the metropolitan regions as well. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, although a great deal has been done, it is not enough. If we want to seriously reduce urbanisation and halt future business relocations abroad, or even worse closures due to labour shortages, we must seriously ensure the possibility of higher education throughout the country. There are several recent studies that clearly show how long a trip to and from a college or university can be in order for a student to find it attractive to commute. It's about 60 minutes one way, plus minus 15 minutes. Then there are no longer many who choose to commute. At the same time, we also know that many of the students who choose to study far from home tend not to return. It's very sad. The whole labour market requires higher education, and students require accessible and attractive study opportunities to assimilate the education we require. We see several shortages today where there is very strong competition and in many cases wage-driven competition between municipalities. This applies to all kinds of teachers and nurses as well as social educators. Another challenge is to get the number of police officers decided by the government and the Riksdag in a large majority. There too, I am convinced that we need to get more education throughout the country. I therefore welcome the fact that the government has now started police training in Malmö and Borås. Engineers and technicians are other professions where there is also a major shortage within the country. Madam President, I would like My conclusion is that the state must be more active in contributing to investments in campuses and distance education throughout the country. This is something that really contributes to stronger growth, safer labour markets and continued development of the whole country. One example from reality is the work that takes place with campuses in Småland where three municipalities – Västervik, Vimmerby and Hultsfred – collaborate with three different universities, Linnaeus University, University West and Linköping University. In this work, it is a clear objective to ensure the skills needs of the local labour market. Madam President, I would like I will work hard over the next four years to increase education opportunities throughout the country for the benefit of the individual, business and the whole country.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-552	Madam President, I would like About the same time that we who are in this hall started this year's election movement, 110 000 students would have started in the country's high school schools. They would have nervously met their new classmates on the roll call, discovered new favorite subjects, and met good role models in their teachers. That would have been the case, but for some it never happened. Nearly 20 000 pupils were not qualified for upper secondary school – 20 000 students who have been nine years in Swedish primary school and who, nevertheless, have not been equipped enough to move on to the main guarantee of a future job and an independent adult life. We know today that in some schools not even half of the pupils are qualified for upper secondary school. In Gothenburg we have Sjumila School and Malmö Värner Rydén School. Nearly 70 per cent of the pupils have received adequate basic education. Common to these schools, apart from being in exclusion areas, is that they are located in cities that have been governed for decades by Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have long argued what SCB's report now also shows. The consequences for those students who do not have upper secondary qualifications can be very far-reaching. These children will soon become the adults who are the furthest away from the labour market and who are risking a life and a future in exclusion. What, then, do we need to do, those of us who have the privilege of being part of Sweden's legislature? Well, we need to say yes– that it should be mandatory for every school, municipal and independent, to offer their students homework help. We need to say yes to one hour more teaching per day and yes to the fact that mathematics and Swedish will make up two thirds of the teaching time in primary school. It is time for our children to learn to read, write, and count. We need to say yes to compulsory schooling for those students who are at risk of not getting sufficient grades. Sometimes it's nice to be hard. We need to say yes to more primary teachers in out-of-town schools and yes to more teaching assistants. We need to say yes to higher demands on the principals and yes to opportunities to move particularly messy students. We need to say yes to active school choices and review the effects of the subsidiarity principle. In a modern society, pupils and parents must be able to opt out of inadequate activities. Madam President, I would like Over the years, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of children who, in the summer of their last year in comprehensive school, are told about a tougher future than should be expected in a country like Sweden. The Moderates will do what we can to offer something more.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-560	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Noria, for a good speech. I would like to ask a brief follow-up question. I am thinking of Noria Manouchi taking her point of departure from those students who do not have complete grades from comprehensive school. She is tender to them, and she pulls out to their protection. It is well-lawed; we all want all children to succeed in school. However, I would like to ask a question about what was one of the major questions of the electoral movement and the spring debate between our parties. Noria Manouchi will have the opportunity to respond to it. In what way do venture capitalists' profit opportunities increase students' ability to complete their grades?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-563	Madam President, I would like Of course, this was one of the main issues of the election movement in the school field for our parties. What was quickly observed in the election movement, but also in this Chamber, is that what is a priority for the Social Democrats is rarely the students' free elections. For them, it is rarely a question of strengthening an activity of quality, but rather of which operator carries out the activity. For us, it has consistently been about quality and not about performers. I think it should be up to the students and parents to choose the school and activities that the students want to attend. This avoids having to go to schools, which already know in advance that children will not receive adequate education, as they do today.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-565	Madam President, I would like I understand students can choose a school. But schools are not allowed to choose students, especially from the point of view of increasing the owner's profit. We must be able to agree on this. Is the school for the students, or is the school for the profits of the school companies?
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-566	Madam President, I would like What we can certainly agree on is that the requirements need to be increased in all schools, municipal and independent. I myself went to a municipal school – the first Swedish school that has ever had to be shut down because of too much violence. For these schools, some are more responsible than others – especially you Social Democrats.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-567	Madam President, I would like I will now join in the line of Liberals who have spoken from this speaker's seat or – as many have probably rather understood – preached about the importance of education and education. I am a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, but I will talk about the point of intersection between the labour market and education. Nowhere is it clearer than in adult education. Adult education offers people new opportunities in life. For many new arrivals, this is the way into Swedish society. We simply need to have adult education with quality in teaching. This year, Komvux is 50 years old. Our ability to educate and develop as a society adults who have come here as adults, adults who for various reasons have not completed their upper secondary school degree or adults who want to change tracks will increase in the coming years. Madam President, I would like Let us stop at some basic figures. In ten years the number of SFI students has doubled. In 2017, 37 per cent of the participants completed their course. The number of persons enrolled in komvux in 2017 was 235 000. Madam President, I would like It is a heterogeneous group that today reads in Komvux. Of those who study at basic level, many are born abroad, and they already have higher education. In other words, Komvux needs to be better and more flexible when it comes to meeting each individual. Madam President, I would like The concept is to meet every individual, but if we do not succeed in doing so, it will have major consequences at the level of society. A small step along the way is an increased focus on the mapping of pupils' past knowledge, more flexible and less underlying groups, and better study and career guidance. We need to talk about the lack of teachers. It is as clear in komvux as in other school forms, and it is even clearer in SFI education. We need more first teachers in Komvux with clearer mission description of what the service brings. There are many signs that pupil health needs to become a more natural part of adult education than is the case today. Many testify to recent arrivals who suffer severe traumas that create stress and difficulty in learning. They need better student health. Because it is the case, Madam President, that we do not feel better just because we are getting older. The throughput of Komvux must also be improved. Today, too few complete courses within the required time, and there are too many drop-outs. Adult education should not be a school form for adults who have nowhere else to go. We need an adult education that is qualitative and where students can move on to working life or to further studies. In the next parliamentary term, we need major reforms in the field of education and training, including adult education. It deserves the school, the student and the teacher. Madam President, I would like As with all 50-year-olds, it is time to start thinking about the future of Komvux.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-577	Madam President, I would like During the winter months, many preschool employees are affected by, for example, winter freckle disease or other diseases that spread between children and staff. February is jokingly called vabruari, and the term has even gained hold and is used at Försäkringskassan. Everywhere you'll see squirming children with green snots, sneezing and coughing straight out. The parents are in two situations during vabruari – either they are sick themselves, or they are home to care for their sick children. But those most affected are preschool staff who daily receive our snotty children. In addition to being constantly exposed to new bacteria and viruses, staff are financially penalised when forced to sign up for sick leave. In this case, the Karen deduction means that the person who becomes ill does not receive any salary on the first day of illness. Then the employee receives 80 percent of his salary for up to two weeks. On average, a child nurse earns about $1,000 a month despite years of experience. Once the tax has been deducted, the salary will land at around SEK 19 000. If he or she becomes ill, another thousand will draw it. Who can afford to be ill under such conditions? Ingalill Hagman, a school teacher in Örsundsbro in Uppsala County, says that during her first eight years as an employee at Salnecke preschool she has been ill as often as ten times a year. It is infectious diseases that she estimates she has suffered at her workplace. Between 1987 and 1993, we had no withdrawal, and during a period of time they received full sickness benefit from the first day of illness. But during the crisis years of the 1990s, the Carl Bildt government made a deal with the Social Democrats about Karen's Day, as it was said at the time – today it says the withdrawal – and that has been the case since then. Karen's Day was perceived as a necessary evil in the 1990s, but now, 28 years later, the situation is different. It is time to review the unfair pay reduction for all professions. But above all, no one should have to be punished for taking care of snotty children. Some other professions can get around the rule by working from home, going home a little earlier or choosing to work even though they are ill because they may have a workplace where physical contact with other people is not always necessary. But preschool staff can't leave the children or work from home when they feel a little crass. In an article in Aftonbladet from v abruari 2017, the journalist quotes a nanny at a preschool in Sweden. She says, "When you work with small children you have to have a 100% mental presence for eight hours, we accept the parents' expensive arrests in the morning and are expected to return the kids in the same condition as we got them." I'd rather be a little better. ..................................................... I agree with you a great deal. At the same time as I as a parent should be able to be sure that my child is received by healthy staff, the profession as an employee in preschool will also become more attractive if the employee can be ill and stay home with a good conscience and without concern for his personal finances. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have as one of several proposals in our committee motion Proposals for a world-class preschool to abolish the withdrawal for preschool staff. Karen's deduction is costly for those occupational groups that are often exposed to viruses and diseases, such as childcare, care or care for the elderly. That's why many people go to work even though they're a little crass, which in turn leads to more infection. It has tried to push this issue at local level, but several times it has been rejected on the grounds that the law does not allow it. This is something that SKL agrees with and believes that the solution lies in a change in legislation. Regardless of where you stand on the political scale, we all agree that our children are our future and the most important thing we have and that the everyday heroes who take care of our little ones deserve the best conditions that we legislators can give them.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-589	Madam President, I would like Here I will highlight the huge discrepancy we have in school results in my hometown of Malmö. We have 32 municipal primary schools of high school, and among these schools, upper secondary school qualifications vary from 97.2 per cent at the top down to 40.4 per cent at the bottom. You will hear what I say: in the same city, with the same primary school administration and, of course, the same political government, we have schools that are at the top of our grades in Sweden while we have schools that are at the bottom. Madam President, I would like How has it come to this? Yes, the short answer is that Malmö has become a segregated city with a political governance consisting of S and MP and in some situations even V who has not been able to handle the situation. In the Rosengård area we have two schools with the lowest school results and a secondary school qualification of around 40 procedures. What happens to the other 60 percent of students? Well, that's a question. They must feel that they have somehow failed. For it is in some form a failure, above all for themselves and their family you but actually also for all of us. In today's society where it is most often required at least upper secondary level to get a job, the situation becomes extremely stressful for this group. There are large numbers of students that we are unable to educate each year. Unfortunately, these examples are not entirely unique. There are several other schools in Malmö with low upper secondary school qualifications of around 50 and 60 per cent. There are other schools around Sweden with similar results. Several hundred students complete the ninth grade in Malmö with no upper secondary school qualifications every year. In fact, Madam President, you get sad and very concerned. Are these failures not being dealt with? Yes, in Malmö we have a resource allocation system where different socio-economic factors give different school money for each student. This means, for example, that the schools in Rosengård receive up to SEK 500 per student per day, while other schools receive SEK 300 per student per day. So there is a difference of over 50%. At the same time, the city pays SEK 3 000 more for qualified teachers who choose high index schools, which are schools in the Rosengård area, for example. Despite these measures, where we press high-performance schools with low school money in favour of low-performing schools, the results in these schools continue to be at this low level year after year. So we send out hundreds of students in uncertainty every year. The answer to how to achieve successful school results cannot be money alone. Something else is needed, too. I hope we all agree on that. We Swedish democrats have, among other things, come forward with proposals for preparation school for all new arrivals. There you have your schooling until you are ready to go to the regular school. Another area is more order in school, where the teacher's authority is at the center. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats will continue to work to get a hearing for our proposals and thus give all students in Sweden good opportunities after schooling.
i-79cedf09a470cfdc-601	Madam President, I would like It is nice to be one of those who concludes three days of intense and interesting public debate. I would like to take this opportunity to talk about the business environment throughout Sweden regarding the labour market and infrastructure. I myself have a background in family business in the Gnosjö region of Småland, whose local culture is characterised by a strong tradition of small businesses and running businesses. My experience of local collaboration between companies and municipalities is a perspective I want to include in the government policy. All companies in Sweden are important and the engine of our welfare society. Companies of different sizes contribute to the national economy in different ways. It is the smaller companies that are currently creating four out of five new jobs. But Sweden needs both small and large companies in order for the national economy to develop well. We have seen many new tax increases introduced during the last term of office. They hit the countryside and smaller communities directly. It has been about increased taxes on savings, energy, transport, employment and more. It is our firm belief that this is not the way forward for Sweden. Madam President, I would like Being a small business is both challenging and wonderful but sometimes also very tough in today's Sweden. I know from my own experience how many rules and laws you have to relate to. If companies are to develop into something good, we politicians must not stand in the way of successful entrepreneurship. How do we ensure jobs and prosperity in the face of the next economic downturn? The answer must be to find more real jobs in real companies. As I said, new jobs come mainly from small and medium-sized enterprises. Instead of investing in inefficient and expensive labour market measures such as new start-up jobs, start-ups and introductory jobs, we therefore want to invest in an extended start-up allowance, reduced sickness pay and reduced employer's contribution. Small and growing companies must be given good conditions for growth. This in turn requires improvements in the business environment. We stand for a policy that would increase the activity of companies, increase jobs and broaden the tax base. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats defend Swedish companies and claim that infrastructure and communications play a crucial role in this context. The conditions for transporting are different in the country. Here in Stockholm it is perfectly possible to ride the subway to work. But there are relatively few in Sweden who have that possibility. The car is a must for most Swedes. Swedish motorists, especially in rural areas, have experienced significant increases in costs during the last term of office, mainly due to increased fuel prices but also vehicle taxes. We believe that the price of fuel at the pump should be reduced by changing the rules for the incorporation of biofuels but also by adjusting the tax rate and the annual index increase. During the previous term of office, the government has chosen to increase many excise duties on transport in particular. We are opposed to this, as it hits the countryside hardest. The Swedish Democrats' proposal for improvements in the taxation of income, wage costs, companies, transport, fuels and more would benefit all entrepreneurship in Sweden and thus also provide more opportunities for employment and a more vibrant Sweden.
