i-5UMbBTtBQfMAqZKVDkr2F6	According to 6th chapter. Section 4, first paragraph, the form of government is for me to submit proposals to the new Prime Minister for the approval of Parliament. I have consulted representatives of each parliamentary party group and consulted the Vice-Presidents. I now propose that the Riksdag appoint Stefan Löfven, the Social Democrats, who intend to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-360424de69c095fa-3	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 5. Here in the Riksdag, we will today decide which budget will govern Sweden through next year. This is what we are doing at the top of a boom and in a situation where political reform efforts in recent years have in principle stood still. According to the Institute of Economic Development, economic activity is peaking this year, and growth is slowing down next year. We in Sweden are in this situation less equipped than we should be. Today, the Moderates and Christian Democrats come forward with a joint draft budget that offers a new direction and breaks with the reform fatigue of recent years. It is a budget for increased growth, in which the state is able to live up to its commitment to the citizens. It is a bourgeois budget based on the Alliance's common reform agenda for a Sweden that holds together. Mr President, I would like to Autumn 2018 has been marked by and will be remembered for a lengthy formation of government, or rather the lack of the same. These have been presidential rounds, exploratory talks, press meetings and Prime Minister votes. I have said it before, and I say it again: we have a transitional government, but we do not have a transitional holiday. Outside the walls of Parliament, this autumn we have also been reminded of what we politicians are put to deal with. Out there we meet people who are primarily waiting for care, not who is going to be Prime Minister. It is people who do not have transitional diseases. The criminal gangs have not taken a break because Sweden has no government. On the contrary, the shootings have continued unabated. They're not transition gangs. The world economy does not take into account whether Sweden has a government in place or not. The economic cycle also does not wait to fold downwards. No, Sweden needs reforms here and now. Today, 349 Members of Parliament have the power to do something about the problems and at the same time equip Sweden for the worse. We need to do that. That is why the Moderates and Christian Democrats are making a joint draft budget. We do this because the defence needs to be strengthened, both immediately – in a troubled world and a troubled time – and in the long term, in order to build better defence capabilities. We're doing this because gang crime needs to be broken and the cops need to be more. We do this because the care queues need to be shortened so that everyone can receive care on time. Older people should receive the care and care they need. We are doing this because all pensioners deserve reduced tax. We do this because the children in school need more knowledge and more order and order in the classrooms, so that the school can ensure that all children have the same chances of life. Finally, Mr President, we are doing it not least to make it pay better to work and to have worked. Our objective is full employment. For us Moderates, this is clear: Sweden needs a new direction. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small, export-dependent and cyclically sensitive economy. That makes us particularly vulnerable. Stable public finances, which safeguard the surplus target for worse times, along with reforms to increase employment and stronger growth, should therefore be the obvious basis for economic policy. Our draft budget is presented in the light of growing economic uncertainty. The economic cycle will begin to fold. Then we are in Sweden less equipped than we should. Time and opportunities have been wasted in recent years. Sweden's structural weakness is also reflected in the European Commission's assessment that Sweden is expected to be among the EU countries with the lowest per capita growth in the coming years. For a country that wants strong welfare, this is not good enough. Sweden now needs a policy that facilitates entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs and companies should want to move here and be active here. Sweden's long-term growth capacity is based, not least, on the fact that we are a country where it pays to work and also on choosing the most demanding educations. Today's high marginal taxes punish those who do, and we cannot afford that. After what can be called a lost term in terms of important reforms, we now need to strengthen the Swedish economy's capacity for growth and job creation. We need to take steps towards full employment. Not least, it is important that integration starts to work because newcomers can also get a job. Mr President, I would like to Now that we are presenting a draft budget, we are going from words to action. We are doing what we have promised our constituents. We are presenting a reform agenda for Parliament to take a position on. It is characterised not least by the common reform agenda on which the alliance parties have jointly developed and gone to elections. It can be summed up in four areas. Firstly, we create more jobs and strengthen competitiveness and growth capacity. Anyone who can work should also do so, based on their ability. That is not the case today. That's why we lower taxes on work, so that it pays better to work. We are introducing a higher ceiling in the RUT deduction that helps to create more so-called simple jobs. The fact that fewer people pay government income tax with our policies makes it better to educate themselves. This also means that many teachers and nurses do not have to see more than half of an increase in income go to tax. During our term of office, we also want to take steps to abolish the military tax. Secondly, we want to re-establish the social contract, so that the public core task really works. Citizens must be able to count on the state to maintain law, order and security in society, on the public to ensure that there are good welfare services in health care and school, and on the existence of reliable financial protection systems when you cannot work. It's for all of this that you pay taxes. The Swedish Moderates and Christian Democrats' initiatives for 2019 also include SEK 5 billion in addition to Sweden's municipalities and county councils. There is also a developed and expanded queue billion and 18 billion to the defence during the period 2019– 2021. And we're taking important steps towards 10,000 more police officers by 2024. Thirdly, Mr President, it is about creating a Sweden that holds together socially and geographically. Sweden should hold together socially, because we do not accept exclusion and segregation. We want the school to be the springboard for social mobility that gives all children their own chances. And those who are newly arrived will learn the Swedish language and enter our society. But Sweden should also hold together geographically. Sweden is a country with great distances. Those who depend on the car for jobs and livelihoods should not be disadvantaged because they live outside the big cities or far from a train station. At the same time, it is important to strengthen the conditions for agriculture and forestry, not least in view of summer droughts and fires. That is why, in our budget, we are compensating these sectors for precisely this. Fourthly, integration must work. How new arrivals are to be integrated into Swedish society is a matter of destiny. Unemployment is almost five times higher for people born outside Europe than for people born in Sweden. A job is important for you to be able to influence and have power over your own life, but it is also important for the Swedish economy. Jobs and language are crucial parts of this. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's reform work needs to start today, but it will have to go on for a long time to come. We Moderates continue to see a need for a major benefit reform – it's about qualification in benefit systems and grant ceilings – so that it always pays better to take a job than not to have a job. We want to see a broad-based housing policy reform, which must be carried out during this parliamentary term. We all owe it in here to our constituents. In the labour market, we see not least the need for a new and sharper authority to replace Arbetsförmedlingen. Sweden needs more reform policy, and this mandate needs to be used for. Today we are taking the first step. Finally, Mr President, it is Parliament's right and Parliament's duty to decide on the state budget. It is our responsibility to put policies in place that respond to acute problems and long-term challenges. Today, Parliament has the chance to do just that. Now Sweden has the opportunity to bring in reforms for jobs and growth. We can get more cops and a substantial addition to welfare. Now pensioners who have built Sweden can get the tax cut that they so well deserve. Now the Riksdag has the chance to take a stand for shorter care queues and for better integration. Now we can equip Sweden for difficult times. We should take that opportunity.
i-360424de69c095fa-29	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson is doing the best she can to make everything sound about as usual, but it's not as usual. Three months after the election day, we do not yet have a new Swedish powerful government in place. And even if we don't have a transitional holiday – it's easy to play with words here – no member of Parliament who has been here before can say that this autumn has been like someone else in parliamentary work. No one who knows anything about the Swedish Constitution can say that everything is just as usual here in Parliament. No one who knows anything about how to govern this society and what role the government has in it can say that everything is as usual and that it is just pretending that we should continue in that way. Barely a month ago, a clear parliamentary majority voted against the appointment of Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. The parties that voted in favour were the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Today, the same three parties, we have been told in different ways, are planning to join forces to vote through a state budget. In its content, politics is known – we hear that when we listen to Elisabeth Svantesson. These are major tax cuts. These are cuts in employment policy, cuts in the construction of rental rights that people can afford to live in and, perhaps, above all, cuts in the climate. Nevertheless, I would like to know, given how important and central a government is in our system, what government she intends to implement this policy throughout next year. When the Riksdag tried precisely the basis behind this policy, it was no. Where will the long-term support come from? It is not just an irrbloss that she has presented to the House today, is it?
i-360424de69c095fa-33	Mr President, I would like to No, things are certainly not as usual in this House. I think it is a pity and it is sad that so many parties do not choose to present a policy for next year. I really don't want everything to be as usual, because the last four years the development in Sweden has gone in the wrong direction. We have missed a policy that has faced gang crime. We have missed a policy that has faced increased healthcare queues. I and we Moderates do not want another such term of office. It is nevertheless interesting that Fredrik Olovsson, as Vice-Chairman of the Finance Committee, does not know that the financial authority is right here in the Swedish Parliament. If there now proves to be support for the policy that we are presenting, that is precisely what the Swedish Parliament says. That is also what the Swedish Parliament and the Members here have to take a position on. Our budget identifies and prioritises the needs that Sweden now needs to meet. There is more money for the police, a huge increase in defence funds, more money for health care, reduced taxes for everyone who works and reduced taxes on pensions. That is the policy we went to elections on, and that is the policy that we are now presenting – regardless of government. It is important to point out that it is not a government that owns a budget, but the financial authority is here. This will be the focus for 2019. Sweden cannot wait for reforms. We cannot wait another year to get strong reforms to face gang crime. We cannot wait for strong reforms in the area of long-term healthcare queues. Now we are taking a position on the 2019 budget. Fredrik Olovsson has the task to do that. That is what Elisabeth Svantesson, that is to say I, has to do. All of us in here have a job to do that. I hope for support, because that would be good for Sweden.
i-360424de69c095fa-40	Mr President, I would like to We can have a debate, of course, about how Sweden developed over the last four years. It became increasingly stronger public finances and increased resources for municipalities and county councils. The reconstruction of police training began, so that we now get policemen on the streets. We can, of course, discuss all that. We can also agree that for next year we need additional resources for health care, police and defence. We can all agree on that. But what we Social Democrats have been clear about this autumn is that we now need to get a government in place that can present a comprehensive and elaborate amending budget that contains all the reforms that Sweden needs. It was a principle on which the parties agreed: that it was important that this should be done. But the Moderates couldn't stand to stand behind it. That's why we have a motion that has had a lot of problems. There are examples of 3 000 per cent in marginal tax in the proposals that have been put on the table. There are also some other problems, because there have been sloppy written legislative proposals. Can Elisabeth Svantesson now promise that there will be no problem with implementing the reservation that you are now going to push through with the support of the Swedish Democrats?
i-360424de69c095fa-44	Mr President, I would like to I think I'm listening to a loser. When you know you've lost, you run all the different arguments. This is a well-prepared budget motion, a draft budget, from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. It's well worked out. I have heard the Prime Minister say very casually about the budget being presented. This is a well-prepared budget that will make a difference. It is clear that Fredrik Olovsson does not want to talk about the problems that exist outside the Riksdag, because now he has no budget to present. It would be better if you had taken responsibility and also presented your policy. You started your post by saying: All that we can agree on – that we need more policemen, stronger defences and more money for health care. Then I also welcome the fact that Fredrik Olovsson and all the other Social Democrats support the budget that we have now presented.
i-360424de69c095fa-48	Mr President, I would like to I hear Elisabeth Svantesson talking about tackling acute problems and long-term challenges. Then it is surprising, to say the least, that it is such a destructive climate and environmental budget that is being presented. The flight will be a tax advantage again. It will be cheaper to drive on petrol and diesel. Investments in climate change are halved. Anyone who intends to seek support to set up solar cells can forget it. That money is not there to the extent that we know it is needed. The slaughter also continues with half-appropriations for the protection and management of valuable nature – our common natural resources. The signal that is now being sent very clearly to those meeting in Katowice to deal with the global climate and environmental problems is that Sweden is giving up. The role that Sweden has played in the international climate work is no longer to be reckoned with. When one gathers to reach the climate targets and find a way forward together, the Moderates want the Swedish commitment to be demonstrated by making the biggest cuts in this particular area. I would therefore like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson how she intends to bring other countries with her to bring down the climate emissions further, something that is, to say the least, an acute problem and a long-term challenge.
i-360424de69c095fa-52	Mr President, I would like to I share Janine Alm Ericson's intentions and ambitions, and it is very interesting to listen to what she is saying now: that we should, in principle, slaughter the budget. Then it may be good to recall that in this area of expenditure, where the Moderates and the Christian Democrats are now presenting proposals, there are 9.7 billion. Only two years ago, in the 2016 budget, the Red Green Government presented 7.6 billion in the same budget allocation, that is 2 billion less than what we are now presenting. I think it's dishonest. It is also very clear, as we have said throughout the last parliamentary term, that we see different approaches to an effective climate policy. Since we should be careful about the environment and climate both in Sweden and globally – that's where the big problems are – we make major international climate investments, which we believe are very important for us to really get to grips with the climate problems. So we are not engaged in symbolic politics, but in real, world-based climate policy.
i-360424de69c095fa-54	Mr President, I would like to As far as the previous appropriations are concerned, we have very clearly increased our ambitions at the rate that has been possible. When we came to government power in 2014, there was not a lot of government finance to use in this or other areas, because we were in deep deficit due to unfunded tax cuts. I think that's important to have with us. Now we are in a different position, and that is why we have also made major increases in ambition in this area. Sweden's environmental and climate policy was ranked last yesterday, or if it was the day before yesterday, again as the best. We are ranked over and over again as the country with the highest ambitions. In this budget reservation we now see that we want to reduce it – still in the middle of the Katowice climate summit. In the midst of a burning climate crisis, the Moderates and Christian Democrats choose to put forward a policy that lowers ambitions. How does Elisabeth Svantesson see that it responds to acute problems and long-term challenges?
i-360424de69c095fa-56	Mr President, I would like to I think you should have high ambitions, and you should use taxpayers' money in the best possible way. It must be effective environmental efforts. As I said, we are shifting the focus from symbolic policy to real and effective climate policy, for example through the transition of the base industry and making it easier to choose, for example, electric cars. As I also said, it is important for us to invest in international climate action. Nevertheless, I cannot help but think that the Green Party has been in government for four years, and what is the result? The climate budget has increased in recent years, although we are now falling to a level above the level you started. Yet emissions are not reduced. On the contrary, they have increased in recent years. Nevertheless, it is the result that must count, and not the fine words here in Parliament.
i-360424de69c095fa-58	Mr President, I would like to For the first time in the history of the country, we are dealing with a transitional budget. It is needed for important social functions to continue to work, even though we have not got a new government in place. It should provide stability and wait for a new government to make proposals for changes based on its economic policy orientation. The transitional budget is therefore temporary. When the legislation was drafted, it was assumed that there would be no exercise on a transitional budget. It is both reasonable and logical to adopt it because it is intended to facilitate the government process for the future government. We had expected a responsible and orderly process, that the transitional budget would pass through Parliament as intended when the legislation was adopted and that the principles on which it is based and on which we seven parties have agreed together would guarantee. But that responsibility was not for the great loser of the election, the Moderates. Instead, they choose to eliminate the parliamentary approach and the rules of the game to which the policy relates, i.e. that the government and the budget are interrelated. It's about accountability. It is not reasonable for a transitional government that cannot resign to take responsibility for a chaotic situation created by the Moderates with the Christian Democrats and with the support of a racist party. The Moderates now take not only the rhetoric and politics of the Swedish Democrats but also more and more of its actions in order to calm the internal contradictions that are tearing apart the party, where strong forces want to cooperate with the racists. That is why the Moderates chose to exercise and to serve the Swedish Democrats power and influence on a silver platter. It takes power through economic policy rather than through government formation, through the back door as well. That's how a loser who doesn't have a government to appoint acts!
i-360424de69c095fa-63	Mr President, I would like to Let me tell you what is chaos, Ulla Andersson. It is chaos when children who are full of anxiety and depression have to wait to come to child and youth psychiatry. There is chaos with gang shootings in Malmö. A few weeks ago, there were four shootings in 24 hours. That's what I call chaos. What we are doing here is a long and lengthy process of government formation. The chaos that now exists outside these walls, we in Parliament have the task of solving. No, we're not kidnapping a situation. We do what we think everyone should do: take responsibility in this situation. And the responsibility is to present a policy that can solve acute problems and also address the long-term challenges. However, I can agree with Ulla Andersson on one point: it is good that we have had a transitional budget as a starting point for that work. It sounds sometimes in the debate, and it can be good because it listens to this debate to hear it, as if we have just thrown out a small draft budget. The Prime Minister dropped pretty low yesterday, I think. But the budget presented by the transitional government is the starting point for our debate today: 500 appropriations, 200 revenue titles. From that you can draw some of what you think is bad red-green policy, and you can add important reforms that Sweden needs. That is taking responsibility, Mr President.
i-360424de69c095fa-66	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to see how 14 billion in tax cuts to the richest will end gang crime and reduce mental illness among children. I wonder when the Moderates left the approach that government, state budget and accountability are interrelated. You have never ever raised such a discussion in any forum, as far as I know. You are using a very difficult parliamentary situation to serve a racist party and strong dark forces in this society opportunities for power and influence. I had expected more than that from a party that considers itself to be government-bearing. But it may be so when you have no government to appoint, when you are the great loser of the election, when you belong to the smallest bloc and your party is being torn apart by internal contradictions. I am sorry about this. Sweden needs order and order in a difficult parliamentary situation, and in time we will all have time to present our economic policy.
i-360424de69c095fa-69	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to hear a left-wing party talk about responsibility. I just have to say: do not attack us for tax cuts for nurses! You almost voted for a prime minister who intends to cut the entire defense tax for those who are best off. I think it is important to remove the defense tax in the long term. But no, that's not correct; that's not fair. Ulla Andersson, together with the Left Party, was quite prepared to vote for a Prime Minister who intends to remove the military tax. It's fine, but don't stand here and attack us because we want to make sure that nurses and midwives keep more in their wallets.
i-360424de69c095fa-71	Mr President, I would like to When we went to elections, we highlighted four main focus areas: cohesion, migration policy, health care and security. That is in many respects what we are now following up with our budget exercise. The Swedish Democrats' budget contains the highest level of ambition in terms of strengthening the Police Authority and the judiciary in general. It contains the very highest level of ambition in terms of not only shortening but completely phasing out the growing healthcare queues, and it contains the highest level of ambition in terms of pursuing a particularly restrictive approach to migration policy. It provides the best conditions for strengthening cohesion in Sweden. We provide the necessary resources for the Police Authority – resources for more police officers, better paid police officers, better working conditions and better equipment – as well as for other parts of the judiciary: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts, the Prison Service and so on. We are increasing the resources needed to strengthen working conditions in health and long-term care. Among other things, it is about that all the public employees who work part-time against their will and thus want to work more should be offered the right to do so. They are more than 50 000 individuals, preferably women. It's about being able to further train – on paid working hours – without incurring extra student debts. It's about increasing the staffing, getting more hands. And it is, of course, about removing the unusually ill-considered health tax imposed by the Social Democrats in the last parliamentary term – as if we were going to have too much health care in this country. Of course, these are investments that cost, and if you stare blindly at a budget document you can only see that. But I am convinced that it will cost all the more not to implement these efforts. For this reason, for this reason, we are prepared to give priority to the judiciary and health care and instead to cut back on other, less prioritised – for example, the expensive migration and integration policies and the costly and insanely inefficient Employment Service. Of course, we also want to abolish the inferno of subsidies that have influenced the government's economic policy: solar cells, electric bicycles, cars, fuel, wind power and housing, not to mention all tax-subsidised fake jobs. In short, this is a priority we are more than willing to implement. Mr President, I would like to I call our budgetary policy offensive reforms for a defensive purpose. What I mean by that is that we need to implement a number of measures in order to be well equipped when the economic cycle turns downwards, as we see clear signs of right now. It is about strengthening employees, strengthening entrepreneurs and strengthening municipalities. It is worrying that one third of the workforce is completely out of unemployment insurance as we approach recession. Unemployment insurance needs to be centralised and administered at government level. It shall be made free of charge and shall include at least more in the long term. It is not just a question of respect for the individual who has the bad luck of losing his job, but it is equally a question of sound fiscal policy in the sense that generous insurance is acting pro-cyclically. We need to strengthen entrepreneurs through tangible tax incentives in terms of employers' contributions. In this way, companies will not – at least not to the same extent – have to give notice of redundancies when the business cycle goes down. Last but certainly not least, we need to strengthen the municipalities by taking greater financial responsibility for the local government sector. The Swedish Democrats' budget brings very tangible resources to the municipalities, and it is of course intended that they should not have to either increase the municipal tax shock or reduce municipal welfare. With a prudent and balanced economic policy, we can alleviate the effects of a forthcoming recession as far as possible. Mr President, I would like to We also know who is most affected in times of worse economic development. They are the ones who, for various reasons, have a weaker position on the labour market with low incomes, and they are the elderly with tough margins. It is therefore no coincidence that it is those groups that receive the greatest reinforcements of our overall budgetary policy. The lowest income group is strengthened more than four times as much as the highest income group. The older ones, aged 65 and above, are strengthened almost five times as much as those who have not been able to get quite as full of years. Women are strengthened slightly more than men, on average. This in terms of own purchasing power, and with stronger purchasing power, one is better equipped to face a weaker economic cycle. This is also the wise way to approach the issue of income gaps. Raising marginal taxes to the highest in the world does of course make it for high-income earners, but it does not necessarily make the resource-weak groups happier. It is better to focus on and strengthen low income earners. It is better to fight poverty than to fight wealth. Mr President, I would like to As regards the vote this afternoon, in the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group, in the event that our own budget option does not win the floor of the House, we will vote on the joint moderate and Christian-democratic reservations. There are some things to be said about there – the fact that it is not possible to restore the increased taxation of ordinary people's savings or to abolish the hideously ill-thought-out tax on health care introduced during the last parliamentary term are two examples of this. But there are also some good bets there. Investing in defence, justice, health care and lower taxes for pensioners are things that weigh more heavily. It does not have enough ambition, but when we are faced with the choice between a bad option – that is, an extension of four years of socialist economic policy – and a reasonably reasonable alternative, then we choose the latter. That's what's gonna happen. Having said that, I am in favour of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats Nos 2 and 6.
i-360424de69c095fa-85	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt praised the distribution policy of the Swedish democrats in the speech we have just heard. But in the Swedish Democrats' budget motion you can actually read that the combined effects of your economic policy mean that the richest tenth of the population receives almost twice as much strengthening of their private economy as the poorest tenth. Those with the best economic conditions thus gain most from the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats. What is called increased cohesion is in fact increased gaps. This is not a one-off event either. It cannot be an accident at work; it can hardly be said to be. This is the closest rule when the Swedish Democrats write their budget movements. I would therefore like to ask Oscar Sjöstedt how it is that it is always the group with the highest incomes that is prioritised when the Swedish Democrats present their economic policy in this House.
i-360424de69c095fa-88	Mr President, I would like to I was just speaking in my speech about the relative change and strengthening of different income deciles. If I remember the figures correctly, as I believe, we are strengthening the highest income group, income decile 10, with the equivalent of 0.8% and the lowest income group, income decile 1 by 3.3%. The reinforcement is therefore, as I said, more than four times as large for the lowest income group as for the highest income group. That, of course, is how we have to deal with this issue. It is also interesting that Mr Olovsson's highest boss, that is, the Prime Minister, said only the day before yesterday that the Social Democrats are prepared to abolish the military tax. If so, what was the distribution policy analysis? We are doing quite a lot that is directed towards the lowest income deciles. It is about a strong unemployment insurance and increased housing allowance for often single parents of young children, who may only work part-time and have very low incomes. It is of course about the guarantee pensioners, who have a very tough situation. V i raises their pension by 1,000 kroner a month. This is about housing allowances for pensioners who are in these groups – we are also raising this quite significantly. Our budget therefore contains a great deal of reforms that have a bearing on the lowest income groups, and that is why these particular groups are most strongly strengthened. I am extremely pleased with the distributional policy profile of our budget.
i-360424de69c095fa-92	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are always prepared to compromise on a whole in order to bring about a new government. Sweden must have one of these in place. But it is, of course, a whole, in which we should be able to see, in the broadest sense of politics, a collective effect on security, justice and good welfare. The effect I raised with Oscar Sjöstedt, namely that those with the highest incomes get the most money from the Swedish Democrats – SEK 3 000 more in my wallet for me as a high income earner than for those with the lowest incomes – is the overall effect of your economic policy. That's what RUT has figured out for you, so I'm sure that's correct. These are figures drawn directly from the Swedish Democrats' budget. So when I, who has a higher income, and who has a lower income, go shopping, I have 3 000 SEK more with the policy of the Swedish Democrats than the one who has the worst. Then one boasts that older people may get a little more than others, but they are the richest older ones.
i-360424de69c095fa-95	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is not the richest elderly who get more in their wallets if you increase the guarantee pension and the housing supplement for pensioners. You have to break down the numbers a little more. In the lowest income group – a decile is 10% – about half have no job to go to. Of course, I cannot lower the income tax for a person who has no income. The best thing to do to reduce gaps and strengthen the lowest income group is to ensure that those who do not have a job can get a job to go to. They will then also receive lower income tax, but it is difficult to lower the income tax for a person who has no income. Then you have to do other things. It is clear that the high income earner receives more money in absolute terms even with a small tax cut.
i-360424de69c095fa-97	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Centre Party's reservations 3 and 7. Mr President, I would like to It can always be comforted that it could have been worse. It is clear that this time of political uncertainty would have been far more serious if the Swedish and European economies had been worse than they are today. We can see that we are having this debate at a time of decent surpluses and scope for reform and that there is no need to save in the short term, here and now. This simplifies the situation, to say the least. This may sound like flattery to the recent government, but of course this is not the case. I think that at this point we should give a warm and grateful thought to wise decisions taken in the late 1990s and in the 2000s, which have made Sweden structurally strong and have ensured that the economic situation we are currently facing is relatively good compared to the situation in many of our neighbouring countries. To some extent, Sweden has been able to afford political uncertainty during these weeks and months. However, this situation is rapidly passing, and we must, of course, return to a policy of action that solves the problems we are now seeing. Otherwise, the positive situation that the Swedish economy is in today will quickly pass. As Elisabeth Svantesson said earlier, although today's debate and subsequent voting would result in one of the reservations going through, there is reason to give a grateful thought to the work that the transitional government has done. All budgetary motions, including my own, are based on the transitional budget that the transitional government, after talks, took on. The work carried out was valuable and provides a basis for all the proposals we are debating today and subsequently voting on. The transitional budget is the basis and the work on it was valuable. Although I began by saying, Mr President, that the situation of the Swedish economy is relatively good, it is clear that the clouds of concern are collapsing. We don't know what's going on with Brexit. This morning we have received new offers from the British islands for further political uncertainty. This is not least serious for Sweden as a small, export-dependent nation with historical ties to the British islands. Brexit is a drama for the whole of Europe and the European cooperation on which we and our economy are very dependent. There is also every reason to be concerned about the Russian aggression and the signs we see that it continues. This means that we must equip Sweden strongly in many different ways, not least in terms of defence policy. Of course, it also spills over into increased uncertainty, which means less economic development – also seriously for a small, export-dependent country. We see many other threats to trade. We have a President of the White House who, almost every day, is trying to set the groundwork against the order that we have rigged in the post-war period to stimulate cross-border trade, a regime that has greatly benefited Sweden. There are many threats to it. It is therefore high time for Sweden to gather and implement the reforms that we see needed, equip Sweden strongly and do what we can to strengthen the Swedish position and economy in a situation where many others are doing their best to undermine the situation of a small country that is dependent on exports and trade. No matter how long the lengthy formation of government takes, we must find ourselves in a situation where we gather together and form broad majorities for important political reforms. I have spoken in most of the budget debates during the last parliamentary term about a number of structural problems that I and the Center Party see and which need to be resolved. There is no reason not to repeat it in this debate as well; what else could be said? We need to address key areas of society such as housing, the labour market and tax systems. It is central areas of society and the functioning of our economy that have not been fundamentally reformed for too long and where we are seeing more and more real problems, not just the clouds of concern. The housing market is too rigid, and this means that people are not able to move to the jobs and education they need. This weakens the underlying strength of the economy. The labour market has similar problems with a lack of flexibility. We have a security that's based on staying where you are. The shoemaker shall be read. Ideally, you should not change your company or profession, because then you get a lower degree of security in the Swedish labour market. It's bad. The Swedish tax system is becoming increasingly complex, and our tax rates, overall and individually, are far too high. Long-term it is not reasonable for Sweden to have such a high tax burden. We are paying with developmental power and lack of job creation because of this. The Swedish tax burden must be reduced and the complexity of tax legislation must be thoroughly simplified. If we solve these problems, we also solve the problems we see with productivity development. The Swedish productivity trend has been too low in recent years. It's got to go up. This would strengthen Sweden as an entrepreneurial and investor country. We also know that this is the only long-term sustainable answer to how Sweden will continue to be a world-class welfare country that is not topped by any other country in the world. In addition to this, we must take further steps in terms of infrastructure, police and defence. We must significantly strengthen the core of the government mission and build a stronger Sweden that also works in times of unrest, even when it rains, even when leaves are on the tracks, even when crime is increasing and when countries in our immediate vicinity are becoming increasingly aggressive. We must also move from talk to results on the climate issue. We must return to what was in force during the alliance years, that is to say, that Swedish emissions are decreasing step by step while the economy is increasing. We must achieve this. We must therefore return to a climate policy that actually works, not just in government proposals and Parliament's reports. The Centre Party's budgetary motion puts precisely these areas and reforms in these areas in view. We propose reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, and we draw the picture of the tax reform we want to see, simply because job creation in small and growing companies is the basis for all long-term sustainable development. We draw the picture of what reforms we want to see in the housing market and the labour market. It is about liberalisation, greater flexibility and liberalisation so that these key areas of society can function better. We are also clear about our development policy throughout the country. We want to see a number of fundamental freedom reforms for jobs, entrepreneurship and rural living. This House has for decades for many years banned the development power that exists through far too much taxes and regulations for the Swedish basic industries of agriculture and forestry. It is unreasonable for this House to prohibit building in the Swedish countryside where people want to live by means of too much beach protection. Freedom reforms are needed here. We in the Center Party are clear on what is needed. At the same time, we are clear that property rights for not least forestry workers must be protected. This is one of the more important issues that we all too rarely discuss in this House. This is the basis for one of our Swedish basic industries, the forest industry, and it must be clear what applies to the ownership and use of the Swedish forest. One issue which, not least, the President himself, is very much involved in the question of government. Here I leave with a warm hand to my boss and party chairman to give further information about the way forward. Let me say, however, that whatever constellation emerges from the protracted process of government formation, responsible parties between the extremes must be prepared to agree on these central areas of society. The government issue is only a means of achieving what we want, namely the reforms that build Sweden strongly and improve the opportunities for life, entrepreneurship and development for everyone who lives and works in our country.
i-360424de69c095fa-120	Mr President, I would like to It's interesting to listen to Maggie Thatchers's fan club center party in the speaker's chair. When you talk about extremism, it's easy to get your mind off your chest. There are probably many of us who remember the neo-liberal era, and many have had pain in their stomachs ever since. During the past parliamentary term and in a difficult parliamentary situation, the Left Party has taken a great deal of responsibility. We've been trying to make life better for the vast majority of people. Unemployment has fallen and employment has increased. We have tried to equip the country and develop it by investing in more training places. Single parents have been able to afford both cinema visits and new winter boots for their children. Children have received free medicines and eyeglass benefits, there has been a lot of effort on women's health and so on. As I said, we have tried to make people's lives better, and we have also turned the big deficits of the bourgeoisie into surpluses in the state budget. But responsibility is not easy. You have to compromise, and you don't always get what you want. What has the Center Party done since the election? Well, you were involved in voting away Prime Minister Löfven, even though you belonged to the smallest bloc and did not have a solution for a new government. Then you voted out Kristersson because you wanted to ensure that the Swedish Democrats would not have power and influence, which they would otherwise have had. Therefore, we now have a transitional budget that was not intended to exercise, which Källström has also been involved in developing practice for and approved. If the Centre Party now chose to vote out Kristersson so that the Swedish Democrats would not gain power and influence, why do you give the Swedish Democrats power and influence today? Nevertheless, the budget is at the heart of politics, and your actions give the Swedish Democrats power and influence over it. Why? This doesn't make any sense.
i-360424de69c095fa-126	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where many others try to find common denominators and try to keep open for cooperation in different directions, one can rely on Ulla Andersson to hold the fort and sound much the same as she has done the last term of office. Margaret Thatchers fan club, that was good. I'll remember it when it's cold out sometime. To implicitly say that the Center Party wants to make life worse for people in Sweden does not, to say the least, lay any foundation for trustful direct or indirect cooperation. What I do today, Ulla Andersson, is stick to the practice that exists. In every situation where a budget has been put on the board of Parliament that the Center Party has not presented itself or collaborated on, the Center Party has exercised on it. We are sticking to this, and it is this budgetary motion that we are going to vote for. It is also the only budget we will vote on. The budget that seems to be winning, if everyone sticks to their message, is the budget reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. As far as I am aware, the Swedish Democrats have not been part of its development at all. Ulla Andersson's questions must therefore primarily be addressed to the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates and Christian Democrats. What I am doing at this point is focusing and telling both the House and everyone who listens what the Center Party stands for and what we send in regardless of what processes we are involved in. I have not personally been part of the talks that have been going on over the past week, but we have been very clear about our entrances. However, no agreement was reached as the counterparty was not prepared to make the necessary concessions. That is regrettable, but now we are where we are. The process will continue, but Ulla Andersson's attack will not simplify it.
i-360424de69c095fa-133	Mr President, I would like to To raise people's rents and lower their wages I think is to make it worse for ordinary people, and I would think Maggie Thatcher smiles content in her sky when she hears Emil Källström. Emil Källström is happy to refer to practice, but Emil Källström knows, like me, that this is the first time we have managed a transitional budget and that there is therefore no practice. In a regular process, the opposition is exercising on a government budget, but right now we have a transitional budget. Emil Källström knows very well that by abstaining from voting, the Swedish Conservatives' and KD's economic policy is released with the support of the Swedish Democrats. That is why you voted out Kristersson, Emil Källström – because you did not want to give the Swedish Democrats indirect power and influence over the budget. It doesn't stick together. Actually, it doesn't. I wish it did. If you did, you wouldn't be exercising. Now you have done so, but then you would have chosen to vote for the transitional budget anyway, because the government process has taken so long.
i-360424de69c095fa-136	Mr President, I would like to It is clear what Ulla Andersson wants. There is nothing in Ulla Andersson's argument about following the practice.
i-360424de69c095fa-137	What Ulla Andersson wants is for us to break practice in the way Ulla Andersson wants.
i-360424de69c095fa-138	That's exactly what you said, Ulla Andersson. What Ulla Andersson had in mind was that we would vote for several different proposals. This, if anything, would be to break practice, and I think it would be very unfortunate in the long term if we got to that point. It will be free war in a way that damages both long-term and credibility in the framework. I think it would be best if everyone acted as intended and as we have been doing for a very long time: voting on their own proposals and abstaining when the proposals fall. I believe that this is the only long-term sustainable solution, and that is why we are doing so. Then it is quite clear that there are arguments, and Ulla Andersson is right that this is a completely new situation and that you can see it in different ways. I have several interesting things to say about this, but I have only eight seconds left. We'll get back to you, Ulla Andersson.
i-360424de69c095fa-141	Mr President, I would like to When we decide today on the state budget, Sweden can get a new political direction – a policy for better health care for those who need it, for more jobs and for greater security. We can therefore decide on the resources and reforms that our society needs, but without a government in place. Is this right? It can be argued that it should be a new government that chisels out every new policy in this situation. It is a reasonable starting point for a transitional budget, which is therefore essentially based on the 2018 budget. And it is an honourable position even for political parties. At the same time, however, Parliament is not a transitional Parliament but a newly elected Parliament with full powers and full responsibility. It is also the Riksdag that owns the financial authority – Sweden's citizens' right to tax themselves through their representatives. Although good officials have made forecasts and recalculated appropriations in accordance with the current guidelines, the transitional budget extends inadequate, unnecessary or inappropriate red-green proposals and preserves the inability to make the necessary reforms for a further period of time. And time is short, Mr President, because there has been no pause button for care queues, the police shortage or the division of labour in government formation. I and the Christian Democrats therefore believe that Parliament must now seize the opportunity to have good reforms and the right resources in place. The view of the Christian Democrats has been that during the budgetary process the Alliance should have agreed on a joint draft budget. When this has not been possible – I have respect for different positions here – we sought the second best: a common reform policy with the alliance parties that wanted, based on the Alliance's reform agenda. The result would have been a little, but perhaps not that insanely much, different if all four alliance parties had been involved in negotiations. Having said that, I do not believe that any of the proposals would have been excluded from a common alliance budget. Now, together with the Moderates, we are presenting reform and resource proposals that are good for Sweden. These are drawn up within the current practical, preparatory and constitutional framework. The estimates and forecasts of the transitional budget are, of course, essentially the basis of our draft budget. Supplementary documentation has been obtained from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, and assessments have been made together with non-political officials of what is possible in terms of preparation and implementation. All the reforms that we want and have gone to elections on cannot therefore be put in place now. Some proposals have modified t s or need to be done in steps. Other things may be taken when it can be prepared in the Government Office, and some will have to come back to a new government. But I am pleased and proud to note that our draft budget for Sweden is in a different and better direction. We are now developing both materials and tools to renovate community building, focusing on those people who especially need political reform in this situation. We see the sick waiting in the growing healthcare queues, and we are now proposing historically large investments in health care. We will add EUR 5 billion to healthcare next year, which will then increase further. Equally important is how we do this, namely through a doubled and improved queue billion, which includes the entire care chain, and a strategy for equal care with standardised care processes for five people's diseases so that care, which is too unequal today, can become more equal. A major primary care reform is initiated to strengthen first-line healthcare and stop the carousel that many, not least elderly and multi-sickness, experience, with a fixed medical contact and multi-professional team gathering around the patient. The important cancer strategy is extended, and the necessary funds are added to psychiatry. We see the fragile elderly who can't fit in retirement homes. Despite decisions and promises, almost 5,000 people last year were told: There is no room for you. This must change. We also see those who suffer the devastating loneliness of our society, many of whom are older – the purely physical traces that it puts in a person to be denied community and how a chronic stress occurs where the blood vessels contract in the body's protest against living in conflict with what it means to be human. We are now investing a billion a year in retirement homes to remove the queues for special housing and to build more shelters so that those who are considered too healthy for special housing but who suffer from insecurity and loneliness will have a chance of living with a community. We lower taxes for pensioners and raise the housing supplement so that more older people can afford to move to an adapted housing and so that fewer people are forced to opt out of the journey to their grandchildren or lunch with their friend. We also see those who are victims of crime and get their freedom cut around. We are now carrying out strong reforms and efforts on the police to ensure that the perpetrators of crime run a very high risk of being caught. It is a central crime prevention measure. But we also invest in the whole legal chain and provide better conditions for preventing crime. We add 12 billion over three years, and we do not accept that security should be a scarce commodity that depends on the place of residence. We see everyone who does not get the chance of a working community and who must not show what they are able to do – often born abroad. We increase the driving forces for work through job tax deductions, we expand educational places and we raise the wage subsidy ceiling for those who are disabled and need a place in the Swedish labour market. We improve the school with increased teaching time and investments in teachers in vulnerable areas. We are expanding the RUT deduction, which is important for jobs, not least to foreign born. We increase social orientation and language opportunities for better integration. These are particularly important measures when the economic cycle slows down – to make these structurally correct reforms so that the exclusion that follows in the wake of the strong division of labour markets does not deepen. We also see those employers in both the business sector and the public sector who do not get the right skills and how this threatens our prosperity in the long term. Higher education is being expanded, generation shifts in enterprises are being facilitated. We raise the cut-off point for government taxes, so that it pays better to educate or work extra. And we remove the special payroll tax that employers pay for older workers, so that experienced staff can get better conditions and want to continue working a little longer. This applies to teachers, engineers and midwives – such staff as Sweden needs so well now that there is a major shortage of the labour market. We also see everyone who needs Sweden's voice in the world. We are defending international cooperation, and we are strengthening our defence strongly in a troubled time to protect democracy and the values that we hold dear. We want Sweden to do more in the international climate work. And we want Sweden, through high and effective aid, to increase efforts against poverty and oppression. It is even more necessary when other countries withdraw ruled by narrow nationalism. We want a Sweden where everyone can fit and be seen. We increase the resources by 50% to reduce the children's groups in preschool in our quest for staff to have time to see each child. We begin work to restore the LSS, so that those who cannot breathe or eat themselves will regain the right to assistance for these basic needs. We all see in the non-profit Sweden that makes invaluable contributions to others. We reintroduce tax reductions for gifts, which allow that heat to spread to more people. For in our Sweden society is infinitely larger than the public. We create it together – old and new Swedes, in communities such as families, associations and parishes, but also companies. When these communities are strengthened, while the public's core mission to care, school, care for the elderly and security is improved, then the confidence that is so important also for the national economy grows. Sweden has many challenges and problems, and we should not imagine that these will be easy to meet or fix. It will take time, and it will be difficult. But we also have great opportunities if, with resources and practical reforms, we go in close contact with the societal problems that we see to strengthen work, openness, ideality and community, for greater freedom for individuals and families, for the realization that our prosperity is built by companies – which are not our enemies – and for the desire not to leave anyone behind, but also not to hold anyone back. Today, the Riksdag has the opportunity to vote in favour of this political orientation, for the resources and reforms that Sweden needs to begin this work. My view is that it would be very good for Sweden.
i-Cf6UkxeiqeshwpqCCjE48e	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to endorse our reservations 4 and 8. Mr President, I would like to This autumn has been marked by government formation. At least for those of us who are in Parliament, this has marked our work and the discussions that have taken place in the media. For people outside Parliament it is clear that the government issue is important, but it is not all. This autumn I have been thinking a lot about what is moving in people's heads. What is happening in our society right now? If there's anything that worries me, it's that people don't feel that dreams come true. I am thinking above all of our children who are growing up and who want to be something other than what is expected of them, of those who grow up with parents who have a profession and who are expected to have the same profession as Mom and Dad. I think of those who grow up in an area where the norm is that as a young girl you should do what the family or clan expects you to do, where you have dreams but where you do not know if these dreams can be realized so that you can become what you wish and hope. In order for more children to realize their dreams, I believe that the most important thing in our society is school. It starts very early. There is nothing so important to dreams as that we have a world-class knowledge school. It is about having economic reforms that make school work and that give children who need extra support and help the help they require and who also let those who are easy to learn at school go ahead and that school is adapted to him or her. It is about that teachers and principals are respected for their knowledge and have the powers to create students in the classroom and that we lift the teaching profession and raise teachers' status. It is in this way that more children can realize their dreams. Mr President, I would like to These dreams apply to everyone in our country. They apply not least to those who have immigrated to our country and who we now welcome as new Swedish in our society. They concern the one who has come here because he or she has met love, the one who has come here because he or she wants to work and the one who has come here because he or she has fled from war and oppression. Even those who have come to Sweden recently have dreams, but today these dreams are not fully realised. There are too many people who get stuck in dependency and who don't work. There are too many who are cemented in the dependency that risks inheriting their children. There are too many women whose freedom is restricted where the oppression of honour grows in suburbs and outlying areas and where the feeling of insecurity and insecurity grows. Anyone who has been to Jesus Park in Malmö knows that it is a centrally located place where the drug trade takes place openly. It creates a huge sense of insecurity, not only for those who live there but for all the people who pass by. The feeling of criminal gangs taking over and creating insecurity makes the feeling grow stronger and stronger that you can't make your dreams come true. Liberals are therefore proposing a series of reforms to ensure that exclusion is broken. It is about compulsory language preschool for new arrivals, which allows children to learn Swedish early and which gives women in particular the opportunity to also learn the language because preschool allows them to do other things during the day than to take care of their children. We demand that the person who is to become a citizen of Sweden learn the Swedish language. We have high expectations of people, but we also give people a clear chance to start a new life in Sweden. We want to give people this chance. Mr President, I would like to Dreams are also about all those entrepreneurs around Sweden who want to realize an idea and a dream. I personally know exactly what this is about, because I grew up in a small business family in Småland. It is people who have an idea and a thought and literally spend the night and day implementing this idea and this thought. They don't know if they're going to have a salary or a customer. It is these entrepreneurs who today want their dreams realised, and it is these entrepreneurs who have historically built our country. Historically, it is not the labour movement, not the LO and not the Social Democrats that have built Swedish prosperity, but it is hard work, entrepreneurs and a strong work ethic that has built our country. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore important that Sweden as a country also sees our entrepreneurs, sees that we need to build a more modern economy and see that we need to have economic conditions that ensure that our country has better economic conditions than other countries. We are a small and open economy on the outskirts of northern Europe. We cannot have worse economic conditions than our competitor countries. We must have better financial conditions than they have. We must have better conditions and corporate taxes for companies that want to establish themselves here. We cannot have the world's highest marginal tax on labour, but we must have taxes that make it worthwhile to educate ourselves. We must have taxes that allow companies such as Spotify or companies in the new collaborative economy to grow and choose to do so here and not in Israel, the Netherlands or the United States as is the case right now. We cannot continue with the displays of competence which mean that people who are hard-working in our country – chefs, IT experts and engineers – are thrown out of our community because of bureaucratic rules. It's not good enough if we want dreams to come true. Mr President, I would like to Dreams are also about purely existential issues around our planet. No one can go unmoved from the reports where it is now said that the climate issue must be resolved here and now. It can't wait. Then, in all cases in a Swedish perspective, emissions from the transport sector must be reduced. Action is now needed to achieve the objective of a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Then, from the Liberals, we mean that we must start from the polluter-pays principle and that we must have economic instruments to ensure that we get a broad green tax shift, which means that it is more expensive to shit down the environment and more profitable to work and run businesses. Green tax shift – taking climate change seriously – is not just about our existence. It is also about building a more modern economy for our country and for our society. We are going to do a lot here and in other countries to reduce global emissions. If Sweden can take the lead in this work, it has a very important bearing on the whole climate issue. Mr President, I would like to Many people I meet describe the inability of politics to deal with social problems as what disappoints them. I understand them. The past few years have been marked by the fact that deportations such as combating the fraud in the LSS have become a pretext for withdrawing the personal assistance of thousands of people. We have all been able to read and perhaps meet people who are obviously in need of the support of society but do not receive the support of society. Liberals say, "That's enough! Now is the time for change! Now the personal assistance is going back to the level where it was earlier. People deserve the right they have to a decent and reasonable life. What has happened in recent years and the political decisions that have been taken should only be reversed. It's gone too far! It is also about the police not being visible. There is a feeling that the police are not there when you need its help. Whether you live in a city or in a small town, there is the feeling that the police are not there when you need it. It is about the feeling that welfare does not deliver, that welfare does not work as well as it should, even though we have among the highest taxes in the world. When you want help from health care, you do not get a doctor's time when you want it, or you have to wait a long time in a care queue. It's not worthy. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' budget is about a variety of things, but basically it is about us wanting people to realize their dreams. Above all, our children and young people must feel that their background does not determine their future. You're supposed to be able to make your dreams come true. But it's also about entrepreneurs being able to realize their business ideas or the ideas they have about how their companies can grow. It's all about dreams that whoever's new in our country will be able to become what he or she wants. It is a vision that we should be able to take full responsibility for the climate, because it is here and now that such measures are needed. That is the focus of the Liberals' budget, that is what we are presenting in today's debate with our constituents, and that is what we will be voting on fully this afternoon in the vote and driving all the way into the tile.
i-360424de69c095fa-177	Mr President, I would like to We are now putting a fall behind us, the like of which has never been seen before in Swedish political history. The preparation of the Framework Decision and the State budget have not been an exception. The position of the Social Democrats has been consistent, and by now it is quite well known. But I think it deserves to be repeated. I shall therefore present our views in this House as well. It is now more than three months since the elections in September, and Sweden is still without a new government. The way forward is still unclear. After all, today's sitting in this Chamber began with the Prime Minister's question. The starting point for all we are doing now should be for Sweden to get back in place a powerful government that can be tolerated by the Riksdag. This also applies to the work on the state budget. Once such a government has taken office, it can and should submit a draft amending budget to Parliament. Pending the completion of government formation, the budget proposed by the transitional government should also become the decision of this House, but not because the transitional budget is the ideal budget of a party – it is rather the opposite – but because it provides a incoming government with the best opportunities and the greatest scope to shape economic policy on the basis of its political orientation, thereby also indicating a long-term political orientation. For us Social Democrats, it is now a question of creating a practice that is sustainable and appropriate. How this House chooses to act here today is not just a question of economic policy for the coming year, or more likely economic policy until a new government presents an amending budget, but today's decision is also about contributing to a constitutional practice that assumes that the work of giving it a government must weigh more heavily than short-term political victories, especially if they also complicate the formation of government. I therefore support the committee's proposal. Mr President, I would like to In contrast to our view, it has formed a parliamentary majority consisting of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, whose reservation can now go through with the support of the Swedish Democrats after the news we have received here today. It is a basis that does not have enough support in this House to form a government. This has been tried in a Prime Minister's vote in the Riksdag, where, as is well known, a clear majority voted against a government with Moderates and Christian Democrats, not least because it requires the support of the Swedish Democrats. Now the same minority who then proved to lack the parliamentary basis needed to form a government and thus run the country is still trying to push its economic policy through. This is done without there actually being a plan for what will happen next. We believe, on principle, that this is a dubious course of action. But it also brings with it some practical problems. Since these three parties anticipate the formation of the government, no one knows how long the proposals will last. This is not to create good conditions for welfare activities, for public authorities or for people and businesses. There have also been major formal shortcomings in the draft budgets during the preparation process. I was going to give some examples of this. In an attempt to compensate pensioners for the widening gap in pensioner tax, there was a proposal to provide a margin tax of 3 000 % for certain groups. The estimated public-financial cost of introducing a tax rebate for existing employees proved to be too low. The proposal for increased tax on electricity generation through wind turbines proved to be much more complicated than expected and had to be postponed to the future. The list could be made longer, but I will stay there and make three points. First, the leaderships of the Moderates and Christian Democrats affirmed when their movements were presented two weeks ago that everything in it was correct and feasible. That's not true. Thanks to the officials and authorities of the Riksdag and the Government Office, many shortcomings and errors have been discovered, which is a good thing. It is, of course, part of the process. Secondly, however, given that the process has been extremely short and very tight, I can only imagine what has not yet been revealed. This is not an optimal process for developing a state budget. Thirdly – and this must be completely unique – the Riksdag must decide on the framework without having been fully informed of what they mean for each grant. But that is the very basis that builds up the budget. That is where the policy is to be implemented. Now there have been moderate members of parliament with new figures and new texts for committee meetings. You haven't really figured out what you're doing. It is not a reasonable order, if the idea is that we should have a clear, transparent and thorough budget for the state. What we have to consider is, on the one hand, a budget bill of thousands of pages that has been prepared by hundreds of officials at the Ministry of Finance and the Government Office for several months and, on the other hand, a reservation that contains major tax cuts and unclear cuts and that has been written together over a few busy days on the basis of two budget motions. Each one draws his own conclusions. Mr President, I would like to This does not mean that opposition parties and other parties that are not in government should not present their own budgetary motions. It is, of course, a self-evident and central feature of all open democracies that the opposition presents its alternative. After all, it is not even unthinkable to vote through an economic policy other than that presented by a government. It has happened in Sweden, and it happens in other countries. But what is the normal consequence of this is the resignation of the government and the entry of the new government, which has won the vote, or the holding of a new election. However, as you know, we have a transitional government which must neither resign nor be able to call for an extra election. It brings me back to what I started by talking about, namely that Sweden needs to have a strong government in place. What Sweden does not need, however, is more of short-termness, more of lack of plan and more of disorder. The Socialist parliamentary group will therefore vote in favour of the transitional government's draft state budget in today's vote. We are doing this at the same time as we intend to continue our efforts to achieve a cross-block consensus in order to get a government in place on the right side of decency's border, so that it can present an amending budget and establish a long-term economic policy for the entire term of office that citizens, businesses, authorities and municipalities can relate to. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying a few words about the political orientation that we Social Democrats would like to see in such an amending budget, which will sooner or later have to be tabled. These are necessary and important reforms – proposals aimed at increasing resources in the welfare of municipalities at a time when Sweden receives hundreds of thousands more old and children in need of school and care. These are reforms to continue to speed up the establishment of people who are far removed from the labour market. It is a policy that drives the construction of rental apartments that people can afford to live in. We are talking about more sharp investments to tackle our climate change, about reforms that increase the freedom of families with children in the country and, not least, about raising the pensions of those who have worked a long working life but still have too low a pension. It is perfectly possible to implement such a policy because for four years we have turned large deficits into surpluses and brought public debt down to its lowest level since 1977. Now that we are well equipped to face recessions or other challenges, the strength of the Swedish economy should be used to build society stronger and make Sweden a safer country for all. But if that is to be the case, Sweden needs a strong government in place. That should be the focus of Parliament on this day too.
i-360424de69c095fa-194	Mr President, I would like to We have been very clear that what we are doing now is serious and thorough and that the preparation process that Fredrik Olovsson points out has led us to make changes in our proposal so that it will be feasible. For example, we have spoken to the Director-General of the Swedish Tax Agency, who has told us what tax changes can be made. Fredrik Olovsson knows this well. The following can also be observed: We are changing 21⁄2% of expenditure, and we are doing so in a way that can lead to shorter care queues, more police officers and increased opportunities to defend Sweden against threats and attacks. We're doing it to start work on restoring the LSS. We are doing it simply because there are problems in reality that we need to deal with as soon as possible. We need reforms and resources in place. I think the position of Fredrik Olovsson and other parties – to allow a transitional budget to go through – is honorable. I do not think there is anything wrong with that position; it is reasonable in the situation we are in. For the Christian Democrats, however, it has weighed up on the part of the Riksdag – and this is not a transitional holiday, but it is in full force to also decide on a budget – try to make a number of changes to now begin the change that is so necessary. Does Fredrik Olovsson think that these improvements should not be made?
i-360424de69c095fa-198	Mr President, I would like to Our position has been very clear throughout this autumn: We will have an orderly process that will lead to a new strong government in place, so that it can return here to the Riksdag with a thorough, long-term policy. That is what the voters expect. We are not a transitional holiday, but we may well be the most short-lived parliament this country has experienced in a very long time. If we want to avoid that – if we want to avoid extra elections – it is extremely important that we have the best possible conditions for a government formation. I thought that was obvious. Now people in this House are talking about everything as usual. That's not the picture I'm facing. When people look at the Parliament House outside, they shake their heads. It's dangerous. We have to get a government in place; people expect it after a choice. Then, of course, we have a processing process. It is partly formal and has been implemented properly. Because of the wisdom and skill of people being asked, they've discovered mistakes and problems that you claimed didn't exist when you presented your motions-- everything was feasible. Given the very short time – a few days or perhaps a week instead of, as usual, months of consultation and work – it may be that everything has not yet been discovered. I can ask Jakob Forssmed: Can you guarantee that what is now put on Parliament's table and to be voted through can actually be implemented without significant problems for authorities, companies and citizens?
i-360424de69c095fa-203	Mr President, I would like to I note that Fredrik Olovsson says that the preparation process has been carried out as it should. I think it is good that we can agree on this in this House. I told you when our exercise was presented – you can see that press conference afterwards, Fredrik Olovsson – that a preparation work was now started. I also explained that all these proposals will not be implemented by the end of the year, but that we will have to make adjustments in the process that now follows. We have also done so because we take responsibility in this difficult situation. For me, it weighs over when the social problems are so great, when we need resources and when we need to make reforms. I agree with Fredrik Olovsson : People out there expect us now to solve the problems they see in their everyday lives. We go forward with our policy. This was Fredrik Olovsson's main accusation – we are trying to push our policy through in the Swedish parliament. In response to that accusation, I can only say that Guilty as charged!
i-360424de69c095fa-207	Mr President, I would like to It is strange how, as a Member of Parliament and former State Secretary of the Committee of State, one can avoid wanting to understand how central a government is to implement the policy that is decided upon in this House. That is a very important aspect of this. I also find it strange that information has been so sparse – if I should be kind – and that it is so unclear and non-transparent. It is, in fact, very difficult today to say exactly what this policy means. I saw that some kind of compilation came to the media that I haven't seen before with, for example, unspecified reductions of 4 billion and 5.47 billion in funding related to reprioritization in schools, health care and long-term care. In fact, we have no idea what this means when we stand here and discuss what Forssmed thinks should be the economic policy for next year but which I think should be a parenthesis that a new government can change.
i-360424de69c095fa-210	Mr President, I would like to This morning, before we began this debate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs had an extra opportunity to prepare. I thought I'd report a little bit from there. The reservation that may be going through this afternoon has cut a great deal of money in the framework of the granting of aid. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' budget manager notes that Sweden will not be able to conclude new agreements on the World Bank's Ida 19, the African Development Fund, the Green Climate Fund or the Global Fund to combat HIV. Sweden's participation in the World Bank may decrease. Sida will be forced to increase its administration, and several one-year development agreements will be signed. This is what happens when you let the game take the upper hand instead of taking responsibility in a difficult parliamentary situation. There is a difference between right and left in Swedish politics. We have seen this in the past parliamentary term, when the Left Party pushed through free medicines for children and increased housing allowances for pensioners and sick people – for people who find it difficult to afford the rent. We have introduced free outpatient visits for anyone aged 85 or over. But when the S-led government has collaborated with the right parties on pensions, what has happened? Yes, Sweden has received the highest number of poor pensioners from the Nordic countries. There's a difference between right and left. We in the Left Party have done very well together with the government during the past term of office. We have achieved some ninety reforms for greater equality and greater welfare, and that makes a difference for a great many people. Single parents have been given the money to go to the movies, take an excursion, and buy new winter boots for their children. Young people have not had to depend on their parents' wallet to take the bus to their friends during the summer break for a swim trip. And employees in the care of the elderly have finally got work clothes. We have also introduced driving licences so that unemployed people can find jobs more easily. Yeah, that's what you do with the Left Party. The right parties have shouted loudly every time welfare has been expanded to include new areas, and they have systematically rejected reforms that benefit people with thin wallets and women's health and increase equality. In fact, sometimes I have wondered whether the worst thing that can happen in the eyes of the right is that the sick and the unemployed are financially better off. Even the tax cut for the sick with permanently impaired work capacity could not be accepted, but they deleted it. Thus, parties that always otherwise prioritise tax cuts felt that it would be unthinkable for a tax reduction to include sick people. We in the Left Party have gone to elections to build away the housing shortage by facilitating the construction of rental apartments that people can actually afford to live in. We want to strengthen job security by removing general time limits, abolishing employers' ability to plan and legislating on the right to full time. And of course we have to do what we can for the climate. The railway needs to be expanded throughout the country. We need high-speed lines. AP funds need to phase out their holdings in the fossil industry and increase their investments in renewable energy and environmental technologies. Agriculture needs to switch more and meat consumption, flying and motorism need to be reduced. The task of politics is to give people opportunities for environmental and climate-friendly choices, to arrange a structural change. We want to see more employees in care for the elderly. The elderly need staff who have time to listen, talk, and socialize, who have time to provide the necessary care. Working conditions and salaries in healthcare need to be improved and increased. And the children in preschool need smaller group sizes. We have problems in many different areas. One of them is that we have the least redistributive tax system among the EU's 15 core countries. If income differentials continue to grow at the same rate as they have in recent decades, we will be passing the United States already in the 20s to 30s, and it seems that the bourgeoisie does not think is fast enough. Instead, the Left Party wants a tax system that taxes high capital income considerably more than today. We want to see a tax on large inheritances and wealth, and we want a progressive property tax. Today you actually pay as much for a 20-room villa in Saltsjöbaden as for a small wooden cottage in Sandviken. Who would think that's reasonable? We want to reduce taxes on low and middle-income earners and believe that the principle of equal tax on equal income should apply. Last parliamentary term, the Left Party got through the biggest historical investment in welfare – 10 billion. That corresponds to the salaries of 25 000 nurses. 10 billion is also the cost of the 77th job tax deduction of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. They write themselves that it will give 6,000 jobs. Talk about inefficient job politics! 10 billion – 6,000 jobs or 10 billion – 25,000 nurses. They say that it should pay off from subsidies to jobs and thus fatten the culture of mistrust that is spreading, because everyone knows that it has always paid off to work. Moderate tax policy provides 23 times more in the wallet to those with the highest income than the 10% with the lowest income. 10 billion is also the cost of the massive tax cuts that Liberals want to see for those with the very highest incomes, those with 55 000 or more. The Liberals feel sorry for them. It is those who need to realize their dreams and get a thicker wallet. They lower taxes on high-paid men and choose to save sick women who have worn themselves out in health care, school and care. Even the Liberals beat the Moderates. In the Liberals' budget, the 10 per cent who have the lowest amount receive zero crowns, while the 10 per cent who have the highest income receive 19 200 crowns. And they were the ones who needed that money, weren't they, Mats Persson? The Christian Democrats have been creative and come up with a new deduction. Nowadays you will get money, a tax deduction, to have servants at home moving around the heavy rococo agencies on the floors of Östermalm. And, of course, the Moderates will be happy for that concern. The Center Party is fighting feverishly to get the opportunity to lower people's wages, raise their rents and tear up their job security. I said earlier that Margaret Thatcher is very pleased, but I can please Emil Källström that Ronald Reagan is too. The policy of the Swedish democrats – as everyone knows – aims to create insecurity and fear, in order to increase their own opinion figures. They claim to want to help people on the ground but for a policy that reduces the aid budget by 25% and for a climate policy that will drive even more people on the run around the world. But the one who managed to get here for protection. Even the Swedish Democrats think it is reasonable to introduce contributions to the very richest so that they can get their silver polished and their pool cleaned. And together, the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats are taking away the right to deduct the union fee, because what could be more bad than employees organizing themselves in the union and fighting for better employment conditions and higher wages? On the other hand, the ability of the venture capitalists to make profits in their welfare does not seem to them to be a problem. And while companies are screaming for skilled labour, the bourgeoisie is substantially cutting down on training in the budget. The building of the right is nothing more than a straw house that breaks at the slightest wind. In the process of government formation, which has been the focus here today, we have heard about market rents in new production, about huge tax cuts for top ten and restrictions in labour law, that is, real right-wing policy, when the country would actually need more solidarity and reduced income differentials. What the Center and Liberals didn't get through with Reinfeldt, Löfven have partially opened up for. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates were the great losers of the election. They belong to the smallest block. Nevertheless, together with the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, they voted away Löfven 78 days ago. The alliance is now but a waste, and they have no solution to the government process. They have put us all in a political vacuum, and that is why we have a transitional budget to deal with. After all, it is temporary and is intended to make our authorities function during a process of government formation. We have all approved the principles on which it is based, so one might think it should go through. Nevertheless, the Moderates choose in this difficult situation to exercise on the transitional budget. First they started to sound more like the Swedish Democrats, then they took their politics and now their actions. A chaos party is allowed to rule, a party that considers itself a state-supporting party. And the Moderates and Christian Democrats are trying to take power through the budget through the back door. This is how parties who have lost and who do not have a government to appoint act. I regret that, because when dark forces, racists and nationalists advance their positions, it should be the task of every decent party to prevent them from gaining influence. And no, there is no practice of abstaining on the transitional budget. Because we've never had one. One can prevent the Swedish Democrats from gaining power and influence; that is why we voted out Kristersson. Instead, we choose to take responsibility and therefore vote for the transitional budget. It is not our favorite, but we want to see a responsible order and intend to contribute to the focus and solution of the government formation process. We will all have time to present our economic policy – as a government leader, as a negotiating party or as an opposition. Let us keep such order! I support the proposal by the FiU.
i-360424de69c095fa-238	Madam President, I would like This is the first time a transitional government has submitted a budget proposal to Parliament. The Government, the Riksdag and the Budget Act contain provisions on the budget bill and its content, but there is no specific regulation on how a budget proposal submitted by a transitional government is to be drafted. At this point, the transitional government has tried to find ways forward, including by agreeing on principles for the form of a transitional budget, in order to be able to wait in an orderly manner for a new government and its economic policy, as it has not yet been possible to shape it. It could have been expected that this was an attitude shared by the other parties, but today we know that this is not the case. The budget submitted by the government is not a wish budget and no h or a permanent solution, but the state's activities must continue to work. A new government must also be given the opportunity to present its economic policy. Now it looks like another budget is going to win a hand in this House, and that is problematic in a number of ways. First of all, the form – that on this first occasion, when the formation of the government is delayed, we cannot agree on an orderly process for democracy to function even in challenging times. Above all, however, this applies in substance, because the budget that appears to be going through is really bad in terms of the policy that is being proposed. Madam President, I would like At this very moment, many of the world's countries are gathered in Poland to discuss the climate and how to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement to curb global warming. At the same time, we are being reached by reports that 2018 will go down to history as the year when emissions increased most – ever. It is alarmingly urgent now, and the world needs to gather strength and speed up in order to reverse developments in the coming years. For there is still hope. We're not completely screwed yet, and that's what we're going to take on board. Then it is simply not worthy that the Moderates and Christian Democrats present a budget motion in the Swedish Parliament that goes in the opposite direction and cuts the current environmental budget in a way that we have never seen before in Swedish history. They want to remove SEK 2 billion from the environmental and climate budget. They suggest that it should be cheaper to release, through tax cuts on petrol and diesel. We all know that this is a direct contributor to global warming. The flight, which has finally started to pay for its climate costs with the air tax, will again be tax-exempt. The Moderates and Christian Democrats also cut back on support for solar cells just as we started to make use of the sun's renewable energy on our rooftops here in the north. The popular e-bike premium is another highly appreciated reform that they choose to bury. They also halve the protection of a valuable nature. It is a massive cut that completely ignores the alarms in the World Wildlife Fund's Living Planet Report. It has devastating consequences for biodiversity, which we must carefully protect. When our planet is not well, it is of the utmost importance that Sweden continues to be a front country that takes the lead and shows that the climate threats are something we not only want but must do something about. The worst thing we can do is be washed with hopelessness and inspired by leading climate deniers like Trump and Bolsonaro. We cannot lower ourselves to a minimum level of ambition when it comes to the environment and climate budget, but that is exactly what the Moderates and Christian Democrats are proposing here today. This is a draft budget that has no incentive to break fossil dependence. It is a budget that hangs on to coal and oil instead of adopting the new, renewable. It is a budget that continues to keep Sweden dependent on energy from dictatorships and warlords. It is an unsustainable budget that will have devastating consequences for the climate. It is bizarre that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are now proposing these historic cuts and want to lower the level of ambition while Sweden is tops global environmental rankings and for the second year in a row is considered to be the EU's 27 Member States with the best environmental policy. Our climate policy is being praised and promoted, but the Moderates and Christian Democrats are still trying to claim that they know better. However, it is becoming increasingly transparent and obvious to more and more people that it is just a pretext. It is a question of these issues not being taken seriously or addressed at all. Madam President, I would like Sweden is not only a pioneer country when it comes to the climate area, but we also have good reputation when it comes to welfare and gender equality. Sweden tops the EU's gender equality index and is the world's third most equal country according to the UN Gender Inequality Index. However, despite global top rankings, women are exposed daily to sexual crimes, receiving lower wages and pensions than men, and getting sick from stress in our country. There are four times more women than men who are on sick leave for stress-related diseases, and now we see that girls burn themselves out already in high school. We can't have that. We must continue to fight for equality, in all areas, in practice. There, a gender equality agency is a major step forward, but now we see a risk of its being removed. It would be a major setback for the work on equal value and conditions for women. The Moderates and Christian Democrats also claim that their draft budget addresses the major societal challenges, and certainly there are things that are good and that would probably have been included in a draft budget from us as well. It is about spending on welfare, such as school, health care and the police. But what we see in addition is unfortunately nothing more than the usual policy of reducing taxes most for those who already have the most. With their budget, we can count on the gaps in society to widen. Women's conditions will deteriorate, children growing up in poverty will increase, exclusion areas will grow and segregation will increase. I'm worried about that. We live in a time when right-wing and undemocratic forces are emerging and gaining ground, both globally and here in Sweden. Now it is more important than ever that we stand up for democracy, human rights and gender equality. For the Green Party, it is also obvious that a humane refugee policy protects the right to asylum and gives families the right and the opportunity to reunite. In this situation, the Moderates and Christian Democrats choose to make a proposal that they know will only go through if it is supported by the ultra-rights of the Riksdag, and the Center Party and Liberals allow it to happen. They have promised not to allow the Swedish democrats to influence Swedish politics, but that is exactly what is happening now. Madam President, I would like I cannot say it enough times, and I will now say it again: The climate is the destiny of our time, and Sweden will be a fossil-free welfare country. In recent years, Sweden has taken a big step towards becoming that and invested heavily in renewable energy, green infrastructure and a more sustainable transformation of the industry. We have increased the environmental budget by 110% and made it considerably more expensive to release carbon dioxide. We now need to continue this extensive transformation work and ensure that our seas become healthier and cleaner and that we take care of forests and biodiversity before it is too late. We must make food production healthier and animal husbandry more humane. We must make flights more expensive and ensure that fast trains roll on the Swedish rails and out into Europe. When there are new alarm reports about global warming and the mass extinction of species almost every week, when major international assessors warn of increased gaps in society and when the world needs more warmth and humanity, then we will respond by increasing the power of that policy. We must have a policy to make the increase in temperature as small as possible, a policy to stop the extinction of species and a policy to better take care of each other. Only then will we build real strength for the future. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-360424de69c095fa-255	Madam President, I would like Social problems have not taken a break because Sweden has no government. The economic downturn is not postponed in anticipation of a new Prime Minister. Therefore, Sweden cannot wait for reforms either. Our budget in the reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats strengthens the Swedish economy, job creation and the core of the state's fundamental tasks. Our starting point is to meet societal challenges in people's everyday lives on the basis of the Alliance's common reform agenda. Now it has the chance to become Sweden's state budget next year. It also responds to the societal challenges we see. Madam President, I would like The expectation that it is the Alliance's economic and fiscal policy that is now being implemented is very large outside these walls. Many see how in the coming years we are expected to have lower per capita growth than in virtually all other EU countries despite the fact that many factors speak for Sweden. We have a well-trained and technologically experienced population, innovative business and significant investments in research. But Sweden is a very small export-dependent country with a cyclically sensitive economy. Thus, we are particularly vulnerable in a turbulent economy. Stable public finances, together with reforms for increased employment and strong growth, are the obvious basis for our common economic and fiscal policies. To strengthen Sweden's competitiveness in the long term in the face of growth challenges must be seen in the light of growing global international competition. Costs for when policies punish entrepreneurship and work, education and efforts have increased. Instead, Sweden needs a policy that facilitates entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. The long-term task is to go back to a policy that basically takes advantage of the individual entrepreneur, entrepreneur and individual who are making an effort, after the major tax increases of over 60 billion in recent years, so that it is always worthwhile to make an effort. The principle of half remained widely supported 30 years ago. It should have that today, too. Madam President, I would like Higher taxes affect people's behaviour. If it becomes less profitable to work, more people choose to do other things. This applies, for example, to the marginal tax, the level of tax on the last hundred dollars earned. It's the treasure to make a little more effort, work late and take an extra crack. If the marginal tax is too high, many feel that it does not pay to make the small extra though society so badly needs it. Sweden has the highest marginal tax rates in the OECD. This is about up to 60% of a salary increase and up to 70% if you include employers' contributions – yes, up to 70%. The tax claims of those who make an effort at the core of welfare are clear. For a nurse who feels the cold when the boss asks her to work extra in the emergency room it becomes directly paralysing because she has to pay more taxes to go to work, make an effort and make an extra effort than being at home with the family and having Friday cuddly. The same applies to a teacher who stands up, a dental technician, a police officer or a customs official. That's more than half the tax for the one who makes the effort. Are their efforts not valued for Sweden to stick together and for a stronger Sweden? The principle of half left must return as the main principle of Swedish tax policy. With the decision that is hopefully made today, if the motion of the Moderates and Christian Democrats goes through, we have begun the journey back to the principle of half left. Sweden needs tax reforms that reward the work line, labour and effort. For that we will vote together today. Madam President, I would like The driving forces for work must be stronger than the driving forces to remain outside the labour market. If an employee is ill, there must be a security system that works. But it should always pay to take a job and to contribute to the common. We want to further strengthen those drivers for work with lower taxes on labour income and by ensuring that there is a benefit and transfer system that promotes the work line. Everyone who works should get less tax and therefore more in the wallet. The basis for higher welfare quality, shorter care queues and more dignified ageing for older people is a good business environment, not least for small businesses and start-ups. There, Sweden will be able to take advantage of the opportunities that globalisation offers and meet the challenges that globalisation presents to us. The conditions for increasing competitiveness, not least in comparison with other countries, must certainly be improved. During the alliance years, growth conditions increased. We reduced corporate tax, we reduced social security contributions and we increased the drive for entrepreneurship. In recent years, it has been the opposite. Today we can stop and change that. We can come back to a policy that is growth-friendly and strengthens entrepreneurship. We in the Moderates and Christian Democrats therefore propose in our joint reservation that everyone who works and all pensioners should have more money in their wallets. In order to increase the driving forces, the work line with reduced taxes is strengthened by about SEK 200 – 700 for all who work and especially for those with lower incomes. It is a total reform of 10 billion. We are investing in more hours worked in welfare. We're raising the cut-off point for government income tax so that fewer people have to pay it. Today, approximately 1.4 million Swedes pay government income tax. This means that four out of ten midwives today pay more than half of the salary increase they receive in tax. If we want more people at the heart of welfare who are making an effort, we must, of course, reduce these taxes. Nor can we afford to say no to the skills of older people. That is why we now want to abolish the special wage tax for the elderly. For all pensioners who have worked, we lower taxes for everyone and not only for some, but the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats mean a tax cut for everyone. We lower the tax on diesel, we abolish the airline tax and we raise the RUT deductions in order for more jobs to emerge. The reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats give many winners. It is everyone who works, all pensioners, entrepreneurs, rural entrepreneurs and service entrepreneurs. There will be more in the wallet for those who make an effort, those who train, those who work and those who do that little extra to make our society stronger and stay together. Our proposal is for a stronger Sweden. I therefore support the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats Nos 1 and 5. I also agree with Elisabeth Svantesson's speech.
i-360424de69c095fa-270	Madam President, I would like Tax policy is, of course, central to all policies. It sets the conditions for both private industry and the public sector. It also affects households' conditions. The objectives of fiscal policy are to finance the public sector, to influence positive and harmful behaviour and to contribute to better economic equality. These overall objectives are shared by most parties. But because we have different values, the beautiful words mean different things depending on who pronounces them. I would like to point out here today that it is high time for consensus, cooperation and cooperation in tax policy. We adults in this room have every opportunity to show this by putting our prestige aside. Then, objectively and with humility, we can push through the proposals that we know would be beneficial to welfare, businesses and households. Madam President, I would like The various democratic parties in our elected assemblies naturally do not propose exactly the same changes to tax legislation. However, many times we are focusing on changes to tax policy in a direction that we share. There are several areas, such as income taxes and the labour market. This also applies to the housing sector and households' finances. Last but not least, we also share views on a number of issues relating to the tax environment in the business sector. In addition to this, we have been able to agree on a number of tax proposals in previous financial years. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention and highlight the fact that in the 2019 budget proposals it is possible to see that several parties are putting forward proposals that are very close to each other. Together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, as well as the Liberals and the Center Party, have essentially a common view of the direction. This is most evident in three areas in particular. The first area where there are interesting similarities concerns taxation of earned income and pension income. When it comes to strengthening the employment tax deduction, all the alliance parties and we in the Swedish Democrats want in a similar way to increase job tax deductions or basic deductions on low and normal income. There is a clear opening here to at least agree on a general strengthening of the employment tax credit. With regard to the area of the abolition of special income tax for the elderly, there is clear agreement on the abolition. There are really no major differences between the alliance parties' proposals and the views of the Swedish democrats. The special tax on the working elderly should be abolished in its entirety. Tax on the difference between income from work and income from pensions is also an area where there is a great deal of consensus between Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and Swedish Democrats. We Swedish democrats also want to adjust the legal definitions so that income from employment includes both salary and pension. Regardless of the different forms of the proposals between the parties, we agree that the pensioner's tax is unfair. It should be added that the Social Democrats have also objected to the difference. We should therefore be able to see a broad parliamentary basis for change. Madam President, I would like The second area where there are significant similarities between our proposals concerns taxation of property income, savings and indebtedness in the housing sector. Investment savings accounts and capital insurance are basically very good forms of savings and investment in general. We Swedish democrats note that several parties want to reduce the tax on these forms of savings, both through reduced percentage calculation and through a basic deduction on savings before taxation enters into force. In addition, there are occupational pensions. We want them to be the basis for a new proposal on private pension savings, an alleman's pension. What we want to see is savings in bank accounts reminiscent of a hybrid of investment savings accounts and individual pension savings. As far as the housing market is concerned, we can see that for a long time it has developed into a sluggish problem. With urbanisation and immigration, demand for housing has created housing shortages in urban areas. One obvious measure should be to work on limiting demand. In addition, however, we need to open up for increased mobility in the housing market. The Swedish democrats are therefore proposing the abolition of ceilings and the abolition of time limits in the event of a deferral of capital gains. We can see that there are more parties in this House thinking along the same lines. We can also see that the credit part of the financial sector has grown significantly over the years. The expansion of loan products has been driven by previous credit liberalisations but also a long trend in falling market interest rates. The Swedish Democrats, like several alliance parties, want to limit the deduction of interest. The third area where we see interesting similarities relates to corporate taxation. There are a number of proposals from the other parties that we actually agree with. In the area of employers' contributions, we are proposing a model that lowers the general wage bill for all companies, but mostly for the smallest companies. Similar ideas exist in some alliance parties. We are convinced that we could find a middle ground together. Employee options are another area where we and several parties see the need for a general review and improved conditions, especially for employee options with direct settlement settlement where the tax on them is unduly high. As far as the air tax is concerned, the parties within the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats agree that in its present construction it must be completely abolished. In addition, there is room for discussion and discussion on how best to shape taxation in this area. In the case of ROT and RUT too, there is broad support from the alliance parties to recognise the success of ROT and RUT reforms, both in terms of employment and to curb tax evasion. That is why we want to strike a blow to extend the ROT deduction and also include new areas in the deduction. In addition to these three areas, we have been able to see in the past that the alliance parties in particular wanted to carry out a review of the VAT system with a view to greater harmonisation. This is something that the Swedish Democrats are very positive about. Madam President, I would like I believe in dialogue and consensus. We within the Swedish Democrats are prepared to take our responsibility for Sweden's development in the coming years. As our party leader, Jimmie Åkesson, has said earlier in this House, we demand no more influence than is proportionate to the number of votes we received in the elections earlier this autumn. It may be that the parties have different ideological starting points for what we think is a good overall development of society. But we in the Swedish Democrats often agree in principle with several other parties in this House. At least we have very similar positions. Regrettably, I have to say to some of the other parties who have chosen to abstain from their own tax policy in important areas in recent years: you have abstained from delivering to the voters who voted you into this House. There is now an opportunity to do the right thing, both for your parties and for Sweden.
i-360424de69c095fa-292	Madam President, I would like Taxes and rules must be based on the small and growing companies that account for most of today's job growth. The tax system must be reformed, with higher taxes on environmentally hazardous emissions and lower taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. If we are to hire more in health care and more and better paid police officers, more people have to work and pay taxes. Reducing taxes for all those who work is an important reform to create more jobs. At the same time, we need to encourage more older people to work longer in order to take advantage of experience and skills. The cost of hiring is too high. This both complicates entry and accelerates exit from the labour market. It is particularly problematic in the light of the great socio-economic need to extend working life. Madam President, I would like Today's start-up small businesses are tomorrow's big employers. Sweden needs to offer companies good opportunities to start and grow. In order for Sweden to be able to follow global competition, rules and taxes need to be adapted to the conditions of the digital economy and not to block new business areas. A rapidly changing world increases demands on our ability to adapt and our ability to implement reforms that strengthen the conditions for job creation, welfare and our international competitiveness. Despite a very strong economic situation, exclusion remains high, especially among newcomers and persons with short education. The cleavage between those in education and employment and those outside the labour market is reinforced while matching is deteriorating. In the midst of the boom and labour shortages, there are so serious job lock-ups that hundreds of thousands of people of productive age are excluded. It is also a split between areas and regions that has benefited from structural change and has followed the global upturn and those that have been left out. There are many towns on both sides of this divide in rural as well as in other cities. Madam President, I would like The transitional government has now presented a transitional budget. The Center Party's assessment is that the budget bill reflects the limited mandate of a transitional government. But that said, Madam President, there is still a great need for reform. Sweden needs a broad, comprehensive tax reform. An excessive proportion of the tax levied today comes from jobs and entrepreneurship. The tax burden must shift to more stable and less harmful tax bases. At the same time, the tax system should be simplified and highly uniform. For the Center Party, green tax exchange is a central part of both environmental policy and economic policy. Higher taxes on environmental impact are matched with tax cuts on jobs, entrepreneurship and investment. This provides better conditions for Swedish companies to contribute to the Swedish economy and employment while reducing emissions and environmental impact. By exchanging environmental taxes for lower taxes on labour, the high costs of hiring and working also fall. This will strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies while equipping the Swedish economy for the global green transition. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Centre Party's budget motion and our reservation in the Committee on Finance's report.
i-360424de69c095fa-302	Madam President, I would like The purpose of our economic policy is to build a society in which every human being's ability is exploited and where all people are given the opportunity to grow, while at the same time jointly creating security and cohesion in society. Economic policy must lead to more people getting into work, not least by making it easier for all those who create jobs. It is entrepreneurship and jobs that create the tax revenues that are used in health care, in school, in care for the elderly and to fund more police – to name but a few examples. When we make it easier for more jobs, we enable more tax revenue. In the joint reservation from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, which we will hopefully be able to vote through in this House later today, there are several important steps for more people to have a job to go to. The goal is that everyone who can and wants to work should do the same. It is not only important for the national economy as a whole, but of course also important for the individual's economy. There is also great value in that everyone has the opportunity to belong to a working community and feel the important feeling of being needed. That it pays better to work is an important piece of the puzzle in this. Therefore, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates want to strengthen the job tax deduction with a special focus on those with the lowest incomes. Our strengthening of the employment tax deduction by SEK 10 billion means lower taxes for everyone who works but especially for those who take the first step into the labour market. But it is also important that education pays off. In order for more people to want to work more and to train themselves to highly qualified jobs, we also raise the breakpoint for when the state tax begins to be levied. We must pay for diligence, education and entrepreneurship, and then we cannot have the highest marginal taxes in the world. 1.4 million employees currently pay government income tax, including four out of ten midwives and police officers. For them, this means that a wage increase, for example due to having taken an extra shift, is half eaten up by the tax. It is not reasonable in a country that needs more midwives and more police. Madam President, I would like Working should pay off, but working should also pay off. We are therefore reducing the tax on pensions and, for those with the lowest pensions, we are reducing the tax more than was proposed in the transitional government's draft budget. The Christian Democrats want to completely close the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners and will always work to ensure that there is no difference in taxation. Pension is deferred salary and should be taxed as such. These three tax reductions – a reinforced job tax deduction, an increased cut-off point for government tax and a reduced tax for pensioners – we want to enter into force from 1 January. But there is more to be done. One group that is more needed in the labour market is the elderly. We cannot afford to say no to the skills of the elderly. On the contrary, we must make it easier for more older people to work longer if they are able and willing. That is why we want to remove the special wage tax for the elderly introduced by the Red-Green Government and restore the wage tax to the level in force until 2015. Madam President, I would like Older people are not the only ones to whom the Red-Green Government was nudged during the last parliamentary term. The government has also weakened the conditions for all the NGOs that are making a huge contribution to our society. Help for the homeless, the reception of refugees and activities for children in financially vulnerable families are things with which these organisations make invaluable efforts. The work of these organisations must be facilitated. We do so by reintroducing the gift tax deduction introduced by the Alliance Government in 2012. The tax deduction meant that gifts to approved organisations of up to SEK 6 000 o m year were deductible to 25 per cent. In plain language: The person who has given SEK 6 000 in gifts to the organizations concerned receives SEK 1 500 back in reduced tax. This was a long-awaited reform that made a major contribution to civil society organisations. In addition to introducing gift tax deductions as it stood in 2012 – 2015, we want to remove the application and annual fee that the organisations had to pay. For many smaller organisations, it was an unnecessary threshold, and we now want to remove that threshold. We propose that this be introduced from 1 July next year. We Christian Democrats are very pleased that the gift tax credit can now be reintroduced, but we also see that in future we should make it even easier for civil society. More types of organisations than just social assistance organisations and research should be included in the system. The maximum amount of SEK 1 500 is very low in a European context. For example, Norway has a limit of SEK 20 000, and in other countries there is a limit equal to 10 percent of the individual's income. From this perspective, Sweden could do a much better job of supporting civil society organisations. Moreover, it would be desirable to allow companies to give gifts deductible to organisations. Madam President, I would like The tax system should encourage work, education, diligence and generosity. The proposal put forward by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates to Parliament is a good step along this path. I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates 1 and 5 and otherwise agree with Jakob Forssmed's earlier speech.
i-360424de69c095fa-314	Madam President, I would like Judging by the previous debate, the Left Party reads the Liberals' motion as Marx reads Hayek. I was going to shed some light on our exercise and perhaps above all on our tax policy. Sweden is a welfare country. If you want to continue to be a welfare country at a time when global competition is increasing and when Sweden is subjected to greater trials than before, you need not prioritise welfare first but prosperity first. You have to have prosperity in order to have prosperity; one is a prerequisite for the other. We know that the globalisation that has been going on exposes Sweden and our companies to competition that can sometimes be tough, especially for a country that has the world's highest taxes, a hard regulated labour market and a tough regulated business. This makes it difficult to create something from nothing and difficult to compete. This is what people call creative destruction. We need to face the creative destruction that comes from globalisation by increasing entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and by people in this country being able to create something from nothing. I and the Liberals believe that individuals who work, individuals who are enterprising, entrepreneurs who challenge and disruptive business-start-ups that break what has previously been truth is what creates prosperity. This is the prerequisite for well-being. It is unserious to present budgets or to pursue policies that are based on high taxes and destroy prosperity while at the same time saying that we want welfare. I can't. It is clear that the main objective of the tax system is to finance public commitments, but in its design it must not adversely affect rigour, diligence, ambition and risk-taking. We need to change into a more modern economy. I and the Liberals realise that we need a better regulatory framework and a better taxation of employee options so that small companies can get their business going and so that people who engage – entrepreneurial people who engage in these companies – can also get something for their efforts. We need to ensure that laws and tax systems are changed so that the collaborative economy can grow and grow and so that those companies that help with staffing can have the right conditions and compete in a market like everyone else. We need to ensure that knowledge and education pay off, because productivity has to give more in the wallet. The person who makes an effort to work and toil needs to get more money in his wallet. As is well known, it is quite often the case that left-wing politicians forget that it is entrepreneurial people who create jobs in this country. Sometimes it may even sound like a suspicion of entrepreneurship and that it was something else – something alien and something bad for society. I will tell you, my friends in this Chamber and Madam President – I am sorry that I did not speak through Madam President – that businesses are nothing more than individual people joining forces. They make deals with each other where it's agreed that I'm doing this job to get a penny, and you get that job back from me. Entrepreneurial people who make ends meet-- they're companies. There is no big difference between workers and entrepreneurs, which the Left sometimes wants to eject people. On the contrary, workers and entrepreneurs are interdependent in that they are involved in pushing the same business forward. Sweden also needs a proper tax reform. Not only must it be more profitable to be productive, to educate and so on, but we must also ensure that there is a green tax shift that involves high taxes on things that are bad for the climate and low taxes on things that are good for the climate. We need to have a simpler and more uniform system so that entrepreneurs and individuals can easily predict what is going to happen and can easily operate in the economic environment in this country. That's how you can get some bnp growth, which we've been missing lately. In the economic debate that we are having here in this House, it is a little too often that we only get caught up in efficiency and in getting a lot of money into the state. It is a little too rarely, Madam President, that we politicians sit back and say: it is not our money. The money we are debating here today is not our money. Someone else has created that value. I believe, Madam President, that we politicians take far too lightly the fact that there is someone who has put down a lot of work, taken risks, made an effort and made sure that the money is there. This has been the case when the red-greens from time to time throughout the previous parliamentary term have wanted to increase the tax and, indeed, sometimes even when we bourgeois politicians are not aggressive enough to lower the tax. Madam President, I would like We must respect people's right to their own hard-earned money. Then someone may say: But think of those who have low incomes! Think of those who are sick and need to share in the welfare! Think of those who live in suburbs around Stockholm, the city we are in now! These are the ones I am thinking of, Madam President, because if we do not have prosperity first, we cannot have prosperity. I live in Tensta outside Stockholm. In the apartment building where I live, I have neighbors who go to work and who work and work. They have come here from different parts of the world and built a life here in Sweden. It's not bad if we in Tensta get some more money left in our wallet. Nor is it bad if someone from the apartment building where I live manages to run a business, manage to make a career, and even manage to get rich. It's not bad as long as someone else doesn't get poorer. Madam President, I would like We know that when businesses flourish and people make careers, prosperity grows. More people will be lifted out of poverty. Not more people get poor, but more people get rich. It's not a problem. There must also be space in vulnerable areas to save up for a start-up capital or for an apartment operation. That is why I am pleased both that in the Liberals' budget we are reducing the tax on people with low incomes and that we are the party that lowers the tax most, at least according to the party-politically independent think tank Timbro's chief economist. Madam President, I would like The social contract needs to be maintained. That means we pay taxes and we get something back. The former government, now a transitional government, raised the tax by $4 million a day. Sweden's tax rate is one of the highest in the world. There are plenty of welfare countries with lower tax rates than we have. There are plenty of welfare countries that have police, defence, school and health care that work but have lower taxes than Sweden has. It is not serious to take people's money and inhibit people's diligence, entrepreneurship and toil and spend on things that are not the main commitments of the state. In order for us to maintain the will to pay taxes in this country, I think we need to re-establish the social contract. We will ensure that we reduce tax and move towards an OECD level both in marginal taxation and in the overall tax ratio, while at the same time prioritising those parts of welfare that are most important. It could be police, LSS, language preschools and medical care. We need to be serious when dealing with other people's money. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the Liberals' budget and reservation.
i-360424de69c095fa-334	Madam President, I would like It has been a strange debate from some quarters. It has been debated whether there is a common political order in this Parliament right now. I feel like I need to remind you of some things. After the election, half of the newly elected MPs voted against the question of whether the Prime Minister had sufficient support in the Riksdag. For this reason, all ministers were dismissed, and Sweden is now governed by a transitional government that administers in accordance with the rules of the government. This is the first time that a transitional government has submitted a budget proposal to Parliament. This is done on the basis of the form of government, the parliamentary order and the provisions of the Budget Act. But it does not say how a transitional government's budget is to be designed. Therefore, there was a discussion between the government parties, the Left Party and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals about the principles of this bill. The transitional government has then well explained these principles, and I feel that they have been applied loyally with the agreement on the principles to be applied with regard to the budget proposal for 2019. This should not be interpreted as the political priorities of the parties in a transitional government; it is simply the duty of a transitional government to produce proposals. Then the Finance Committee has prepared the transitional government's proposal for the state's budget. There we have passed far beyond the terrain of existing constitutional practices that can guide how such a process should be conducted. The way in which the parties and members of the Riksdag choose to act not only has implications for economic policy in 2019, but also provides a basis for constitutional practice for similar situations in the future. Madam President, I would like In a situation where the country is led by a transitional government, parliamentary work must concentrate on getting a strong government in place that is at least tolerated by a majority of the members. It is not reasonable for a transitional government that cannot resign unless it gets through its budget to be required to implement the economic policies of other parties. A new ardent government, whatever it may be, needs to present an amending budget in order to make the necessary corrections. This applies regardless of what the Riksdag decides today. Corrections and unsatisfactory preparations, Madam President, risk exacerbating the problems and creating twitchiness and uncertainty in government governance. We Social Democrats therefore believe that the most appropriate practice at this stage is that the parliamentary parties should instead devote themselves to trying to contribute to the taking-up of a government. We believe that when a new government arrives, the parties in the Riksdag will be able to present their own proposals for economic policy in the role of a government leader, as a negotiating party or as an opposition. A transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It addresses the current societal problems – this to ensure the functioning of the state apparatus and the state authorities. The only tax proposal included in this transitional budget is the phasing out of the tax on pensioners, introduced by the Government of Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg, and a change in the Eurovignette system for lorries. The parties have agreed on this, which is very gratifying. Madam President, I would like In conclusion: In the final vote, the transitional budget prepared in normal order and negotiated in broad agreement will be able to resist the poorly prepared party budget proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-360424de69c095fa-346	Madam President, I would like We are gathered here today in the highest decision-making bodies of democracy. It would be very strange, Jörgen Hellman, if we were not able to present our policy and the content of it, as we also promised the voters in the election that we have behind us. It is here in Parliament that we shall do so. There is no other platform for this. It is in here that we will debate and discuss our proposals. Sweden's challenges do not stop because Sweden does not have a new government. They won't stop because we don't have a new prime minister. We still have to work on it. We're not a transitional holiday. Despite the existence of a transitional government, we are the decision-making body here. Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats are trying to talk this away like it was going to happen somewhere else, that we have a parallel process when the rest of us are going to sit in here and wait. That's not possible. Care queues continue to grow. The police have great challenges. We know we're about to face a recession. We need more and stronger entrepreneurship for this. We have a good and formal preparation process that we have worked with and maintained in here. Yeah, we broke new ground. We are creating new practices for the future. I believe that everyone in here with the support of fantastic officials, both in the Riksdag Office and in the Government Office, has done everything we have done and been able to do to make this as good as possible. My question to the Social Democrats and Jörgen Hellman is therefore: do the Social Democrats appeal to us other parties that we should renounce our democratic right just because Sweden does not yet have a government in place, even though the challenges outside these walls are growing every day?
i-360424de69c095fa-351	Madam President, I would like Cecilia describes some problems. There are, of course, problems in society that need to be resolved and on which the Riksdag must decide. But the basis of our constitution is that there should be a government in place that writes well prepared proposals. Then the Riksdag decides from outside whether you think the bill is good or bad. I do not think it is a good order when proposals that should be prepared in a government office are prepared in Parliament where yellow post-IT notes with different numbers are passed around in a committee's meeting room. It is also not well prepared tax proposals if a marginal tax change of 3 000 %, which the Moderates obviously do not represent, but these are not sufficiently prepared proposals. The ideal for our country's way of solving the problems that we all see in society – we may have different solutions to them – is, of course, to get a government in place to write bills that are well prepared instead of the committees working on legislative proposals.
i-360424de69c095fa-354	Madam President, I would like I see the role of the Social Democrats, Jörgen Hellman, here as wanting to be the orderly in the room, and we can be two about that. It should be orderly so that we can deal democratically with all the proposals and opportunities. But I do not see any answer from Jörgen Hellman to the question I asked. Is it the case that Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats want us to refrain from presenting our policy even though we are not a transitional holiday, despite the fact that there are good grounds for the proposals that have been put forward? We have prepared the proposals according to the opportunities we have had. The Swedish Tax Agency has been there – to mention a decision-making authority that has to work on the proposals that have been submitted to the Riksdag. We have had the transitional government's budget as a basis and have made some adjustments to the edges, particularly with regard to income taxes. We know that it is now at the turn of the year that you have that opportunity. There is no such option with an amending budget, and Jörgen Hellman is very well aware of that. I would like an answer to my question, please!
i-360424de69c095fa-358	Madam President, I would like Order and order are the hallmarks of our party. It is also based on our economic policy, where we always try to have sound public finances. We can see that the Moderates do not really have the same robust principles, and one example is perhaps the way in which the last parliamentary term operates politics. At the end of their term of office, they borrowed for tax cuts. So order for future growth is our hallmark. I think it was a good game rule that the transitional government met the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Green Party and the Left to discuss how the government would present the budget bill and agreed on the principles. I think it would have been to the fullest with that budget proposal and that a government was formed which then presented a transitional budget, with the debate that then became.
i-360424de69c095fa-360	Madam President, I would like This is the first time a transitional budget has been managed. There is a purpose for the process to go through in an orderly manner. A transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It does not address the major societal problems ahead of us or propose new reforms. Nor is it intended to do so. It exists in order for important social functions, welfare and authorities to function as before. It is waiting for a new government to take office and to present proposals for changes to the state's budget resulting from its political orientation. It is needed to create stability and is precisely a transitional budget pending the entry into office of a government and the presentation of its economic policy. It is when such a bill is presented by a newly-responsive government that it is reasonable for parties to exercise. But the bourgeois parties obviously live by other systems and criteria and want to circumvent the whole purpose of the transitional budget. The Moderates have previously tried to sabotage an orderly government formation, and now attempts are being made to create chaos in the budget process in the form of a right-wing conservative and reactionary blue-brown alliance. This behaviour with the Moderates at the head has proved to pressure the other bourgeois parties to act in the same way and to go forward with budget reservations, even though they know that it is not a reasonable order. They do not even allow a new government to make its mark on economic policy. There is a parliamentary approach, and that is that the state budget and the government are interrelated. It is not reasonable that a transitional government, which cannot resign unless it gets through its budget, should be required to implement the economic policy of other parties. At present, however, this seems to be happening because the Centre Party and the Liberals have announced that they are voting on their own draft budgets in preliminary votes and then abstaining from the final vote. A moderate and Christian-democratic budget will then be released with the support of a racist party. This is how the Center Party and the Liberals act, who have repeatedly expressed that they do not want to give SD power and influence! One could make a timeline of how the former Alliance has acted during the autumn. When the result of the elections was clear, they were the largest bloc in the Riksdag. At the time, however, it went well to lower the government Löfven with the support of SD, this despite the fact that the bourgeois had no self-former to appoint. And now they are equally prepared to release a conservative right-wing budget with the intention of deteriorating for Sweden's workers. It is to actively support the Swedish Democrats and their economic policies. The former Alliance has talked a lot about taking responsibility. In fact, this has been done throughout the debate today. However, I find it difficult to see responsibility, and worse is the joint budget reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Environmental and climate work is held back, despite the fact that we have an effective fiscal policy and instruments to change. Sweden is in the midst of ongoing climate negotiations in Poland, and after a summer with the worst forest fires in Sweden's history, the bourgeois parties are ready to abolish, for example, the airline tax. It is incredible to me, especially when it has been shown that more and more Swedes are much more tax-friendly when the planet is at stake and that more and more Swedes want to give the money to invest in trains, for example. It is again tax cuts for the rich who will come first. Madam President, I would like In the debate, it has also been argued that it is not possible to propose tax reductions in an additional amending budget. This is true with regard to income taxes, although it is no secret that we in the Left Party believe that investments in, among other things, welfare and climate must take precedence over major tax cuts for the rich. Our tax policy should promote work on fair terms and strengthen labour law, not least in the underfunded welfare. For us, increased equality is central. We have a tax system that is rigged for the rich, and we cannot accept that. It is also possible to personify this: We have a Stefan Persson, a Hans Rausing and a Melker Schörling. Three Swedish men together are richer than 60 per cent of the Swedish population. They are therefore richer than half of the Swedes. And with a bourgeois budget, the wealth will continue to be concentrated in a few in that way. We want to see a fair tax system. A tax system should not distribute money from poor to rich. Unfortunately, however, this is what we are getting from the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. When the government Löfven earlier settled with the Left Party, it was about 10 billion for maternity care, school and general welfare. But when the Moderates and Christian Democrats present their budget reservation, it is important to present a sixth job tax deduction of 10 billion and to triple the RUT grant for the most wealthy. As if it were not enough, the richest will receive even more tax subsidies and deductions, while ordinary wage earners will not even be allowed to deduct the union fee. The suggestions are a bit like the Grinch who steals Christmas. The Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by SD, are able to steal welfare on an annual basis. The welfare state in Sweden was built because society was fundamentally unfair, and the task was to make it fairer. Today, absurdly, that is no longer the case. Billionaires can pay a smaller share of tax than ordinary workers, and they can get huge amounts back in deductions. The Left Party is the only party that wants to change it. We believe that the welfare state should equalize injustice and that it should never distribute money from people with ordinary incomes to the rich. It's basically about class. Sweden has become an extremely unequal country and, compared to the rest of Europe, wealth continues to be concentrated in fewer and fewer countries. Among the rich countries of the world, Sweden is the country where the gaps are increasing fastest. A major contributory factor is the development of the tax system. So we have gone from being one of the countries whose tax systems are most favourable to having the least redistributive tax system. That is why there is also a strong need for a different tax policy from that we have today, which is rigged for the very richest. A new tax policy is absolutely crucial and necessary, not least in order to reduce economic inequalities and to obtain the tax revenues that are crucial for maintaining and increasing the quality of welfare. Then the richest can't get away and leave the poor behind. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants to continue to take responsibility in the process. We had expected an orderly and responsible process with the transitional budget. But the Moderates – even though they landed as the greatest loser of the election – and the zeal of the Christian Democrats for power and influence make them see no problem at all in using the help of racists. For me, it is absolutely incredible that the Center Party and the Liberals have had such a hard time choosing between Löfven and Åkesson and today is releasing a budget adapted for the Swedish Democrats to vote for it. Reductions affecting millions of programme areas and rural areas are waiting. The gaps will increase inside and outside the big cities and between people. We believe that the transitional budget should pass through Parliament as it was intended according to the principles on which it is built. We have sufficient confidence in our economic policies, with concrete solutions to problems and challenges. At the moment, we also believe that the parliamentary parties should devote themselves to contributing to the accession of a government.
i-360424de69c095fa-378	Madam President, I would like This autumn change budget contains proposals for changes in central government expenditure for the financial year 2018. A transitional budget, such as the one we have today at Parliament's table, should be grey in nature and have no politically coloured proposals in itself. It would be an exaggeration to say that this amending budget contains surprises or major changes in appropriations, but there are elements which are nevertheless a party political extension of the budgetary policy of the last parliamentary term. It is luxury subsidies for electric vehicles, it is mass immigration policy and it is cuts. But there is a change of funding that stands out from the old usual cabinet food – a grant that makes me think of the expression: There is nothing in this world that is safe except death and taxes. You increase the grant to the Swedish Tax Agency, which will use the grant to administer the TV tax – this new TV tax that no one can escape, not even the dead, because it must be paid out the year if you happen to die at the beginning of the calendar year. The increase in the grant to the Swedish Tax Agency is financed by reducing by an equivalent amount the grant Support to speech magazines under Category 17. Speech magazines are for people who may find it difficult to read for various reasons. This can be about disabilities or a loss of vision. So what the government is really doing is taking money from the blind to force taxes on the dead. A more obscene change of funding has to be looked for for for a long time, and I therefore find it difficult to see that there is a political consensus on this kind of meagre proposal. Madam President, I would like There is all the more to say about the last four years in Swedish politics. The red-greens have pursued pro-cyclical fiscal policies. It has done what it has done to push down unemployment with subsidised employment to new arrivals, a measure which has certainly polished the statistics but which has cost more than it has tasted because it has rarely led to real jobs. The rain of competence failed, and today there is probably no serious judge who believes in the promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. In fact, Sweden has lost its place in the last four years. In this amending budget, we receive recognition from the Ministry that we have done joy calculations and underestimated unemployment. This underestimation is not unique in any way; it has been the rule rather than the exception in several other areas of expenditure. I am aware that new data have been received with budgetary impact and that that is why we have amending budgets, as some parties in this House tend to point out. But that does not change the pattern that we can see in the amending budgets. Time and again you make joy calculations and overestimate the strength of your own politics. We can only speculate on why this is being done, but doing so is black and white. The unemployment rate is not estimated to fall as much as according to the estimate made in the 2018 budget bill, says p. 25. The Government therefore believes that the grant should be increased by SEK 2.2 billion. Shouldn't the money in the unemployment fund be enough in a situation where you've had the boom on your side for years? Of course they should. If they're not enough now, what happens when the big bang comes? What happens when the large group of newcomers, who do not respond to the demands of Swedish employers, enter the labour market? These are issues to which solutions must be delivered, because as it looks now, Sweden is in a very vulnerable situation once the economic cycle turns downwards. Madam President, I would like As far as the migration appropriations in this amending budget are concerned, they are of such a size as they can be expected to be in a transitional budget, compared with the billion-dollar leak that would otherwise affect Swedish taxpayers. But I believe that many Swedes have been misled and live in the belief that migration has been tightened and is now at a so-called minimum level. But it couldn't be more wrong. Sweden granted 107 000 residence permits between January and October. Above all, it is family immigration that is skyrocketing. Is this a policy that brings Sweden in the right direction? We are talking about 107 000 residence permits – there are 30 000 homeless in Sweden! They sleep on park benches and stand in food queues. Where's the justice in that? I have mentioned this before, and I am doing it again: What this demographic change means for the welfare state Sweden is that we are facing a choice of path – a choice between solidarity and jointly funded welfare and a model where everyone has to pay for their health care, care and education. This would then be the greatest transformation of Sweden in modern times. Madam President, I would like It is insufficient to evaluate the efforts of the last parliamentary term simply by talking about missed unemployment targets and otherwise crazy reforms. I think it is important to translate changes in appropriations and budgetary policy into something more tangible: what has the policy actually achieved? Here we can add three main things to the document: we have among Europe's longest healthcare queues. We have the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries, and we have the lowest police density in ten years. This is not something that has happened overnight, but is the result of political decisions for decades. Sweden has gone from being a safe and united country with a well-developed social safety net to the opposite. It is controversial today to criticise this transformation, at least in this House. But I still stand up because what we have built in Sweden has served us well both economically and socially. It is a land where the strong is not held back by the weak and where the weak is not left to his fate by the strong. It is a recipe for success in building a coherent and competitive country. My appeal to the others in this House is: if you are going to fight these ideals on which Sweden is built, at least be honest and say it straight out!
i-360424de69c095fa-392	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are in favour of developing new, innovative technologies. We know that autonomous vehicles and connected vehicles are the future. Automated and connected vehicles will change how we move and how vehicles are used, sold and owned. The new technologies are expected to contribute to several important societal objectives in the form of safer, cleaner and more accessible transport. There are a number of important issues that need to be addressed in the run-up to market introduction. Who, for example, is responsible when an automated vehicle is involved in an accident? Who will the vehicle protect? Are they the ones who travel in the vehicle or those who are outside the vehicle? These are not easy issues, but they must be resolved. We believe that the Commission is too unclear on the issue of burden-sharing in the strategy and believe that the importance of clarifying this issue in the future cannot be stressed enough. In the strategy, the Commission proposes three complementary strategic objectives. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the measures proposed with regard to the objective of ensuring an internal market for the safe introduction of automated and connected mobility, such as a harmonised approach to national safety assessments of automated vehicles. However, when it comes to the other two objectives, we are opposed to the measures proposed. The Commission makes available up to €450 million under the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) to support digitalisation and automation in the transport sector. Furthermore, the Commission states that around €300 million from the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, has been made available to support research and innovation for automated vehicles in 2014– 2020. We believe that research and innovation are A and O for the safe and sustainable market introduction of automated and connected vehicles and support growth measures that promote this. However, we are critical of the use of the EU's various funds, as these EU projects tend to be cost-driven while most of the bill is paid by the Member States that are net contributors, including Sweden. In this context, we recall that in May 2018, the Commission presented its proposal for the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021 – 2027, followed by a number of sectoral proposals linked to the budget, such as the establishment of the CEF and Horizon Europe. The Commission's proposal proposes an increase in the allocation for CEF and Horizon Europe, which in turn means an increase in the Swedish fee, which we oppose. With regard to the Commission's objective of managing the socio-economic effects of automated and connected mobility, we recall that at an early stage we have been sharply critical of the existence of socio-economic measures within the framework of EU programmes and strategies. In particular, we believe that it is when such measures occur in so-called growth projects. We believe that this is a way for the Union to engage in socio-economic measures in secret. That is why we are critical of these socio-economic projects. Having said that, Madam President, we are in favour of our reservation.
i-360424de69c095fa-399	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the Commission's strategy for automated and connected mobility. A large part of this report is, for obvious reasons, about autonomous or so-called self-driving vehicles. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. We in the Left Party believe that it is very welcome that the Commission has developed such a strategy. We're moving fast, aren't we? The technology for self-driving vehicles is available. A few hours ago, I was involved in testing a self-driving vehicle in the Transport Committee's premises. It kind of snapped when I got in front of it. This alone is an example of progress. There are huge profits for society with automated vehicles. But it is not obvious that there will only be profits. There are, of course, also threats and risks of a development that is going in the wrong direction. As I see it, we need self-driving vehicles, given that they are safe systems, given that we get clear environmental benefits and given that the social benefits are significant. Let's start with the security aspect. We can probably say that these individual vehicles are probably safer than if there is a person behind the wheel. Progress has simply gone so far. But there are other major risks with self-driving vehicles and perhaps mainly with connected vehicles. There is the obvious risk of hijacking the system. Imagine that we have a system of self-driving vehicles in a city like Stockholm and that someone manages to hack into the system and reprogram the algorithms so that it is the gas at the bottom instead of the brake! Of course, such things must be resolved. Of course, the question of who is actually responsible, the manufacturer or the owner of the vehicle, must also be resolved. Here is a major challenge for the insurance industry. Perhaps these issues will be dealt with. With regard to the second criterion that I set out to support these systems – the environmental benefit – the challenge is perhaps even greater. We all know that we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions quickly. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) recently presented a report calling for action on an unprecedented scale. It's urgent. Here in Sweden, the transport sector has a specific sector objective. We will reduce emissions by at least 70% by 2030. Can self-driving vehicles play a role here? Yes, a 2015 OECD report has carried out a scenario across Lisbon. Lisbon is a city that is roughly of Stockholm's nature in terms of inhabitants, access to public transport and so on. In that vision, nine out of ten vehicles disappear if privately owned vehicles are replaced by self-driving vehicles. But it is based on the fact that autonomous vehicles become part of public transport and that the self-driving vehicles are used precisely to supplement public transport and that several people travel in the same turn, i.e. they have shared tours. So not everyone should own their own self-driving car, and we should not use self-driving cars to pick up the pizza or to pick up the kids from practice. On the contrary, we will have a development in which our streets are clogging again of self-driving cars. However, if we start planning our cities on the basis of people's needs and on the basis of the environment and climate, I think it is quite possible to build a system in which nine out of ten cars disappear. Imagine the great opportunities we would have for our cities, not least! All parking spaces would disappear, says the OECD report author. A large part of the street network could be reduced, and we could instead have parks, schools and other public spaces in our cities. Finally, the overall benefits of society must also be significant if we are to introduce systems of autonomous vehicles on a large scale. In our report, we refer to a report by the VTI, which states that social benefits are not primarily dependent on technology itself, but on the function which self-driving vehicles can play in society. That's exactly what I think is a bit of the heart of the matter. It is about which system we want to introduce. It is also about what demands we make on manufacturers, those who, for example, program the codes of the self-driving vehicles. Should there be closed systems where we have no idea which codes and which algorithms exist for the different vehicle systems? Or should we as politicians demand that it be an open technology, so that it is programming that everyone can take part in and that different systems can cooperate with each other? Madam President, I would like You usually talk about systems being technology neutral. But when it comes to technology neutrality, it must not be misinterpreted as meaning that we politicians should not have opinions at all on new technologies. It's the other way around. If we want secure systems and systems with great benefits for the environment and society as a whole, we politicians need to know what we want. Then we have to make demands. We need to regulate. That is exactly what we need to do when it comes to connected and automated vehicles. Social benefits, sustainability and security must be the guiding principles at all times. Madam President, I would like There is a reservation from the Swedish Democrats. I've already called for it to be rejected. I think it is a rather strange reservation, especially since the Swedish Democrats are talking about not wanting any socio-economic analyses of systems of autonomous and connected vehicles. Surely that is exactly the kind of analysis we have to do. We have to ask ourselves what the socio-economic impact is. I therefore call for that reservation to be rejected and for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I'm so sorry that I've been running out of time.
i-360424de69c095fa-415	Madam President, I would like Basically, I share Jens Holm's vision and dreams. When you look at how an optimal society with autonomous vehicles without any other impact would work, it is fantastic. The problem is that in such a system there are people. It's people who've programmed these vehicles. The programmer sits behind a computer, but who will the programmer program the car for? Is it for the drivers of vehicles, that is, those who are in the vehicles, or is it for the people who are walking alongside them? Is it for the cyclists? I and the Swedish Democrats are very much in favour of autonomy. On the other hand, one must be careful when discussing autonomy, because I do not think it is as painless as dreams and visions show. As I said, as long as there are people and bikes, there will be obstacles that cause the cars to stop. Suppose a truck comes at full speed towards an autonomous car. How will the car react? Should it drive forward and possibly drive on a person to protect the driver? Is it supposed to stand still and let the driver take the fall? Is it going to turn aside and drive a cyclist to death? These are not easy questions. As far as the socio-economic aspects are concerned, it is good to make an evaluation. On the other hand, I do not think that the European funds should be used to pay for the socio-economic measures.
i-360424de69c095fa-420	Madam President, I would like I agree with Jimmy Ståhl that it is extremely difficult ethical considerations that need to be made. But those balances are already being made in traffic today, when there is a person behind the wheel. That is why I think that open systems are so important and that we have to oblige manufacturers to cooperate with each other on open source so that we can see how different forms of systems have been optimised. In these discussions and in terms of the whole environmental connection – will this be a benefit to the environment at all? – it is important that we optimise the systems correctly. This whole complex of discussions falls to me under socio-economic effects, one of the three pillars which the Commission highlights in its strategy. It is therefore so strange that the Swedish Democrats do not want the EU to look at the socio-economic effects. Here, Madam President, I would like to quote from the Swedish Democrats' reservation, where they say this about analysing the socio-economic effects of automated mobility: ..................................................... What is this, Jimmy Ståhl? First, you stand here and ask us to look more closely at the socio-economic impact, and then in your reservation you say that this is some hidden project from the European Union that should not be dealt with. What do you mean?
i-360424de69c095fa-424	Madam President, I would like It is like this, Jens Holm, that we believe it will take very, very long time to get the automaization of vehicles started. We know that automation currently exists in the mining industry and in closed, fenced areas. At Volvo they have long had autonomous vehicles that have driven, for example, engine blocks, chassis and more. But getting this out into everyday life, driving transportation, taxiing and more will take a lot of, very long time. Unlike Jens Holm and the Left Party, however, we believe that we should be restrictive with EU funds. The EU should not act as employment services for drivers who may become unemployed due to automation. Each country should take care of its own labour market itself and take care of those people who might become unemployed. The use of these funds will need to increase the requirement for Member State contributions. I am surprised that Jens Holm is willing to pay more money to the EU. At least we don't.
i-360424de69c095fa-427	Madam President, I would like I would like to make a very clear correction here: when we last dealt with the EU budget in 2019, there was one party that went against that budget because of the large increase in expenditure. It was the Left Party, not the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like I still think it is something that is a bit false in the Swedish Democrats. First, it points to the new technologies and the uncertainties that exist for society. But when the European Union says in its strategy that it wants to analyse such uncertainties and help find the best solutions, which is part of the discussion about the socio-economic effects, then the Swedish Democrats say that this is something that the European Union has now begun to do in secret, and that is absolutely not to be done. I do not really think that the Swedish democrats will be credible in this discussion.
i-360424de69c095fa-429	Madam President, I would like We are facing a crossroads when it comes to automated and connected vehicles. I think most of us even find it hard to imagine what the future will bring. The possibilities are both many and great. There is currently a potential to radically change our transport system, our innovation development and our labour market. Technology can also provide new opportunities for mobility and transport not only in cities but also in sparsely populated areas. There are also opportunities for people who today have limited access to their own transport to actually increase freedom of movement. The transport of the future is about many different things. This is not least about both Swedish and European competitiveness. It is about environmental benefits, and it is about who is responsible in the event of an accident. It's about road safety and so on. These are issues that we cannot resolve ourselves here in Sweden. Here Europe is indeed a good example of how we can do it better together, and what we are dealing with in this House today is precisely the Commission communication on an EU strategy for automated and connected mobility. The strategy is based on three overarching strategic objectives: firstly, the development of key technologies and infrastructures to strengthen the EU's competitiveness; secondly, the ensuring of an internal market for the safe introduction of automated and connected mobility; and thirdly, the management of the socio-economic effects of automated and connected mobility. So far all well, because these things are connected, and normally such a message had passed through the Chamber relatively unnoticed – but not today. The reason for this is that we have a reservation from the Swedish Democrats, who, on the one hand, claim to be in favour of strengthening the internal market, that is, the objective of strengthening the internal market, and, on the other hand, are negative when it comes to the other two objectives. They see a need for us to develop common standards and strategies for how this is to be done, but when it comes to the goal of developing technology and infrastructure and thus using common resources too, they think that this is directly bad. When it comes to tackling the socio-economic impact, it is even expressed that it has already been highly critical of the very existence of socio-economic measures and projects in the EU context. Madam President, I would like You take your head off. What is it that the Swedish Democrats want to achieve? No money, no strategy for how technology can benefit rural areas and cities, no idea how technology development can promote road safety for children, for example. Why not make transport available to those who do not currently have the possibility of own transport? After all, this is all about socio-economic effects – how we can make transport accessible to citizens. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's opinion.
i-360424de69c095fa-437	Madam President, I would like Self-driving cars will change cities in a few years. Imagine a completely crash-free car where you can sit back, safe and secure, have a cup of coffee and go through the emails! There will be a full climate benefit when the vehicle is used differently and more efficiently than today – 90% of the cars in the cities are expected to disappear. Today's cars are parked 97% of the time. In 2017, 253 persons died in traffic. A researcher from the Royal Institute of Technology has made the illustration that it is an equally big change we have before us when we go from ordinary cars to self-driving cars as it was when we went from horse and wagon to today's cars. In Sweden, testing is carried out around autonomous vehicles, but in many places the testing activity has progressed considerably further. Several states in the United States have already allowed autonomous vehicles, and tests are carried out at the same time in Germany, Japan and South Korea. Many of the issues are dealt with at EU level in order to achieve common standards and a digital single market and to compete with Asia and the US. It is positive that we have a broad consensus between the parties that the development of self-driving cars is good. At the same time, there is a frustration that the previous Social Democratic Government has been too slow to push the process forward. It is unfortunate that the investigation was delayed. The Boston Consulting Group, together with the World Economic Forum, has highlighted three main issues regarding future legislation that will be important for policy: When can driverless vehicles also be allowed?
i-360424de69c095fa-445	What international standards must be met in order to allow autonomous vehicles, for example, throughout the EU? The aim is to make it safer and to achieve the zero vision of accidents. If, however, an accident occurs, there must be clear liability. At present, there are question marks that need to be straightened out. For the Moderates, the issue of road safety is always a top priority, and in Sweden all self-driving vehicle trials are based on the fact that the safety issue is a top priority. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to create conditions for the Swedish automotive industry to remain at the forefront. The Moderates want a safer, better and more sustainable future! It is therefore time for Sweden to change the pace in all areas necessary to enable a large-scale introduction of self-driving vehicles – for safety reasons, to reduce the number of car accidents and to ensure that no one else dies in traffic.
i-360424de69c095fa-449	Madam President, I would like As Mrs Lindberg said in the speaker's chair, this is an issue in which we are largely in agreement. But perhaps we will not agree as much in a few years' time, as progress has gone further and funding is required for various projects, but also when it will be necessary for us politicians to put down our foot and decide what kind of system of self-driving vehicles we then want to allow. I find it interesting that Sofia Westergren refers to the fact that 90% of our vehicles can disappear from the streets. It offers a fantastic opportunity to build sustainable cities. However, this task is based on the fact that we no longer own private cars, but that the autonomous vehicles are part of public transport. My first question to Sofia Westergren is simply how the Moderates want to work for a system in which the self-driving vehicles are not self-owned but part of public transport. My second question concerns whether the Moderates want to make demands on manufacturers, on the one hand, that they use open source sources, for example, so that this is a technology that is open and can be disseminated and, on the other hand, that they should cooperate with each other. Is that something the Moderates want to work for?
i-360424de69c095fa-453	Madam President, I would like After all, I am moderate and defend the individual's freedom of choice. I think that when it is attractive enough to be part of the fleets of vehicles that we are talking about here, people are doing it for a more sustainable world. On the other hand, the one with open codes and that sort of thing, I can say passport. Of course we want a secure system – that it is not hacked and so on. But from what I understand, the 5G network is important so that we get a fast connection that can handle large data transfers safely. Maybe it wasn't an answer to the question.
i-360424de69c095fa-455	Madam President, I would like Sometimes a short answer is also some kind of answer. But the fact that the Moderates protect private ownership, if we say so, is not news. If we are going to remove 90% of cars and introduce a completely new mode of transport, I think it is important that we politicians know what we want. I can imagine that car manufacturers are anxiously looking around: Wow, nine out of ten cars! Am I the manufacturer who will no longer be able to sell a car? I think it is important that we rig a public transport system where self-driving cars can be included, but it should be on those very premises so that we do not get a system where everyone is the owner of a self-driving car and can drive around just like that. Get the kids from practice. I'll send the self-driving car away. I want a pizza. I'll send the self-driving car away. Then our streets will be creaked all over again. Then we have created a new problem instead of a solution. As far as open source is concerned, it may be a bit of a nerdy question, but I think it's important. When I talk to researchers, for example at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg, who are not so far from the honourable Member's home, they talk about that – that we politicians have to put our foot down and demand that we have access to the codes, algorithms, which are put into these systems in the event of an accident but also so that the different systems can cooperate with each other. It is therefore more important to be able to share the technology than to have individual companies lock up the technology for competition reasons, as it is for the most part now. That's something to think about.
i-360424de69c095fa-459	Madam President, I would like I think it is extremely important as you say, Jens Holm – that the EU should be given overall responsibility, precisely for it to be standardised. It should be a technical internal market that works for good transparency. You mentioned this by 90%. So that's 90% in the cities. We see that rural areas continue to be a significant market for cars. I don't think all ownership will go away. There is also a lot to read about full climate benefit. You can imagine vehicle columns and other things that could complement current public transport – or replace it completely. Now we are entering into something new, and it is difficult for me as a politician to know exactly how it will work, but certainly we see a benefit in making cities more car-free and safer for everyone. Now we have a situation with cars, bikes and kicks, and everyone likes different things about the different things. But it is clear that we are facing a new, fierce reality, and for a more sustainable and safer world we must also be able to sacrifice something.
i-360424de69c095fa-464	Madam President, I would like At the end of the 1700s, France decided that lengths and weights should be based on measurable and scientific principles. These ideas spread throughout Europe and later in the 19th century all over the world. Common lengths, weights and dimensions facilitate trade, which in itself creates the welfare that we can all enjoy today. Although there are those who claim the specificity of the nation, most people today agree that common values are needed for a functioning community and free trade. Madam President, I would like Today we are talking about the Commission's European strategy for automated and connected mobility. It is not a subject that will capture the interest of the media on this very day, but it is a subject that is about our common future. If we are to develop different forms of self-driving vehicles as a method of delivering goods, we will need to have some form of common rules for this. We in Sweden are good at research on new transport solutions. However, if all countries have their own regulations, this research will be hampered. Just as 18th-century politicians realised that lengths and weights should be the same worldwide in order to promote trade, we now need to work to produce as similar rules as possible regarding automated and connected mobility. Madam President, I would like When I was in Parliament last time, 1998–2002, I had a conversation with a friend who works as an international lawyer. Already then we wondered who owns the legal responsibility if a future self-governing vehicle is involved in, for example, an accident. Is the driver, programmer, producer or seller responsible for the autonomous vehicle? It has been 20 years since I last had to think about this, and during this time technological developments have progressed, while on the political and legal side we are still pondering the issue of responsibility. This European strategy aims to ensure that we, as decision-makers, develop operational systems that enable us to benefit from the development that is taking place. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-360424de69c095fa-470	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that we in the Liberals support the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the EU's strategy for connected and automated vehicles. We think it is very positive that the European Union is sending such a strong signal, not only within the European Union but also globally, that we want to push forward and become a world leader in this technology. As the EU states, we are facing a crossroads in our transport. The strategy is summarised in three strategic objectives. The first is that we need to develop our technology and infrastructure. The second objective is that we must ensure that the introduction takes place safely. Thirdly, we need to look at the socio-economic impact. This is because it is stated: the social benefit of this technology is not the technology itself, but how it affects society. What is positive is that the strategy is not just empty words or a document that we are dealing with here in Parliament, but the EU is already in full swing. It points to a variety of funds, for research but also for building different infrastructures. When it comes to research, Sweden is well represented in many of the research projects that are ongoing in Europe, including the L3Pilot project, which is about showing different functions for self-driving cars. Among our truck manufacturers, where Sweden is well represented, you look at how to drive with columns through Europe. The second area that is being pointed out is how to safely implement this. Here the EU points to a number of different rules that need to be revised. Among other things, it highlights safety issues such as who is responsible for an accident, how data should be exchanged so that we can be connected both to infrastructure and between cars, how attacks on cars' IT systems should be handled, and perhaps above all what we have already seen: the risk that we now see in the beginning that citizens have an over-belief in the technology and use it incorrectly. What I find most interesting is really the last objective, which concerns the socio-economic effects of technology. It is extremely important that we work together in Europe to look at its impact on society. We as citizens, and also companies, want to transport goods across borders. That is why we really need to have an internal market, and we also need to know the consequences of technology. This will not only affect the transport of goods and people, where perhaps the elderly and the disabled in particular will have a great advantage. It will also affect the labour market, education, business conditions and finances – everything we handle here in Parliament and all the activities in our society. If we in Sweden and the EU are to become a world leader, I would like to point out in these Nobel Prize Days what this year's Nobel Laureate in Chemistry, France Arnold, said: If you are to become a world leader and receive a Nobel Prize, you must seek excellence and collaborate with the best. What I may miss in this strategy is a clearer signal that we need to work globally on these issues. We must look outside Europe and perhaps above all towards the United States. California has already developed legislation on how to have driverless cars in traffic. Several cities are already planning how to introduce electric, driverless cars. Google's spin-off company Waymo has just started a taxi business with driverless cars. So we have a lot to learn, not only from each other in Europe, but also by looking outside Europe. Madam President, I would like Liberals believe that Sweden should be at the forefront in exploiting technology development and innovation to develop social functions and solve our societal problems. We believe that technology offers an obvious opportunity to solve many of the problems we have. With Sweden's world leading position in terms of road safety and our recognised ability to cooperate, I and the Liberals believe that Sweden could take on the leadership shirt when it comes to how self-driving and electric vehicles could be introduced into society. I therefore believe that we can be a guiding example of how this technology could be introduced into society. In these words, I would like to say that we in the Liberals support the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
i-360424de69c095fa-483	Madam President, I would like Of course, new technology is exciting and interesting. Digitalisation has meant and is a major development in many sectors, and now the development with automation and AI is on a broad front. However, it is important not to have an over-reliance on what technology can achieve. In order for technology to have as positive effects as possible, we need to follow developments and steer them so that technology serves man, the environment and welfare. The EU's strategy for automated and connected mobility contains the balance that such a strategy so badly needs. It highlights both potential advantages and disadvantages. For example, it is highlighted that automated vehicles could promote car sharing and mobility programmes as a service, i.e. selling tours and not cars. Another consequence of autonomous vehicles could be to accelerate the electrification of vehicles and electromobility. These are potential benefits that many connect to the development of automated vehicles. But many often stay there without looking at risks and disadvantages. However, the strategy also highlights disadvantages. They say, for example, that we cannot expect these technical changes alone to solve the problems of congestion, transport-related emissions and road fatalities. Lower transport costs, less time for the driver to spend on driving, and increased comfort and accessibility risk leading to even more and longer journeys because of increased demand. A greater increase in total traffic would mean more traffic in our cities and greater emissions and more congestion. The Commission notes that we need to manage the long transition phase properly and ensure that vehicles of the future are part of a transport system that promotes social inclusion, low emissions and efficiency overall. New risks, such as over-reliance on misuse, need to be addressed. New issues should also be addressed, such as how much infrastructure support is required for autonomous vehicles and how this infrastructure should interact with vehicles. It also highlights the need to address ethical issues linked to the transfer of responsibility for driving vehicles. However, we should be fully aware that the main objective of the EU's strategy for automated and connected vehicles is what is stated: the ambition is to make Europe the world leader in introducing automated and connected mobility, thus leading Europe towards a reduced number of road fatalities, reduced levels of harmful emissions from the transport sector and reduced congestion. I welcome the fact that the EU is taking greater responsibility for the development of automated and connected mobility. It is probably our only opportunity to deal with the challenges that exist in this area. At the same time, however, we should be aware that automated vehicles will not automatically have positive effects on society, but that it depends on whether it is shared, i.e. that they, like Jens Holm, were involved in public transport, that they are powered by renewable fuels and that they streamline transport work. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
