i-a3164db704fbb827-0	Madam President, I would like Åsa Coenraads has asked me what measures I intend to take to protect entrepreneurs who are exposed to threats, harassment and vandalism, and what measures I intend to take to increase the penalties for this type of crime. In addition, Runar Filper has asked me whether I intend to take further steps to ensure the safety of animal farmers who are victims of criminal animal activism. In a democratic society, no one has the right to destroy or steal someone else's property, or at worst to harm other people, in order to achieve political ends. The fact that, as Åsa Coenraads puts it, we take the law into our own hands must of course take a strong stand against. Traders must be able to carry out their activities without being exposed to threats, harassment, vandalism or even more serious crimes. Furthermore, the people who commit these crimes jeopardise the purposeful work for the strengthening of animal welfare by serious organisations and farmers. The police authority acts together with the Swedish Security Service against those who subject, for example, farmers and traders to crime. The actions take place, for example, within the framework of what the police call criminalist domestic extremism. Police measures consist of the detection, prevention and prevention of crime through customary investigative measures and the collection and processing of intelligence. When a crime is committed, the police take the necessary measures to investigate the crime and prosecute the guilty. Effective law enforcement requires resources. The Government has therefore proposed and announced a historic investment at the Swedish Police Authority in the 2018 budget proposal of SEK 7.1 billion over the next three years to, among other things, develop operations and increase the number of police employees. On 1 January this year, legislative changes came into force that provide better protection against, for example, online harassment, and last July the minimum penalty for gross illegal threats was increased. The Government has also made proposals for changes to the penal provision on illegal threats. Among other things, it is proposed to extend the criminal code so that it becomes punishable to threaten more types of criminal offences, such as threatening to break into someone's home. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019, due to the fact that they also require amendments to the Constitution. The mandate given by the Government to the Police Authority and the Security Service, which Runar Filer refers to, will be reported in May 2018. The mission is for the authorities to strengthen their work against politically motivated crime. The prevention, obstruction, prevention and management of crimes committed by extremist groups will be further intensified.
i-a3164db704fbb827-7	Madam President, I would like I wrote this interpellation last November. The reason for this was acute, when entrepreneurs on the west coast were more or less besieged by activists. This is a very topical issue, which in the long run affects all rural entrepreneurs in Sweden. I am pleased that the Minister is finally – three months later – taking the time to respond to my interpellation, and I thank you very much for your answer. Now a lot of water has run under the bridges since November. The same disturbing elements that were then on the west coast have during winter been in my homeland, in the Westmanish forests, in this case around Köping. On the west coast as well as in many other places in Sweden, companies, individuals and employees are threatened, harassed and subjected to crimes by a group of people who consider themselves above the law and democratic decisions. This affects not only traders but also their families and neighbours. In rural areas, this affects whole communities, which is totally unacceptable in a modern society. Autonomous groups who take the law into their own hands and who, under the protection of public rights and freedom of expression, move across the country and spread threats and horrors in their wake cannot be accepted by either politicians or authorities. The same groups also travel to fairs and schools to spread their messages about what they themselves falsely call civil disobedience. Several organised groups are also paid for this via the State in the form of organisational and association support. The line between the influence of democracy and illegal activities is being erased for certain groupings. These lines and boundaries must therefore be maintained by someone, and this someone could be beneficial to the Minister of Justice, who is ultimately responsible. At a time when violence in society and against blue light personnel is increasing, while gang crime and shadow society are growing, it is difficult to get the time and resources of society to do so. It is therefore particularly important to protect the country's entrepreneurs, who contribute to the positive in society in many ways. The government must give the police a greater mandate to take this type of crime and activism more seriously than today. As I wrote in my interpellation, there must be an increased focus on preventing crime and harassment of entrepreneurs who conduct their business according to applicable laws. If these activists and autonomous groups succeed in scaring entrepreneurs and hunters to stop their activities, society faces direct anarchy where lawless country prevails. In Västmanland there are currently 15 cases in the police linked to the wolf hunt. These cases take a lot of resources from society and individuals when it is to be investigated and judged by the court if crime is committed. Crimes should of course be investigated, and everyone has the right to be tried before a court. Of course, the best thing would have been if our courts and police could spend their time and energy on other things than this. Moreover, there are a lot of crimes that are never reported and where words stand against words but where the basis of the problem is that a group of people were in places where they simply shouldn't have been. The Minister mentioned measures taken in the area of criminalist domestic extremism and that police action should consist of detecting, preventing and preventing crime. That is, of course, a good thing, but the question is whether it is enough as the reality here and now, right today.
i-a3164db704fbb827-18	Madam President, I would like Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson! I thank the Government for its answer. The reason I put the interpellation is that many farmers and keepers feel a great deal of anxiety today. Swedish livestock farmers conduct their livestock production with professional pride and commitment under one of the world's toughest animal welfare laws. Concerns stem from the increasing intensity of vandalism and threats faced by many animal farmers, mainly fur farmers. It is usually so-called animal rights activists with political residences mainly in socialist and anarchist groupings. These activists display an almost fanatical view of animal husbandry and often avoid any means to achieve their aims. In cases where minks are released from cages, these animal rights activists also engage in animal cruelty, as minks find it difficult to survive outside their cages. Those who, contrary to all expectations, run the risk of contributing to an ecological imbalance in nature, since in practice they act as an invasive species. There are cases where we see another type of crime linked to animal activism. These may be thefts and abductions of animals, burglaries or vandalism in order to achieve the cloudy world view of these activists. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that it is time for the police and the judiciary to act harder against these criminal wrongdoers. It is therefore important that judicial authorities increasingly prosecute and map the individuals and organisations involved in this. We also believe that the National Police Board should take greater national responsibility while the penalties need to be stricter. Theft, threats, harassment, trespassing, arson and vandalism aimed at individual citizens and traders should never be accepted in a free democratic society. Unfortunately, however, that is what it looks like in some places today. Not least we know this in the Swedish Democrats, who, year after year, were attacked and harassed in square meetings where we were not allowed to make our voice heard. It's still happening today. But there is no huge interest in seeing this as a problem at all. Most fur farmers experience just such ignorance on the part of the police and the judiciary, while animal-activist violence has escalated terribly in recent years.
i-a3164db704fbb827-26	Madam President, I would like I would first like to address Åsa Coenraads when it comes to responding to her interpellation. I have previously responded to a number of interpellations on this particular theme. These interpellation debates are open to everyone. That is why Åsa Coenraads would have been able to participate in these previous debates if she had wanted to. I stand here and answer interpellations usually a couple of times a week and graze off the interpellations that exist. That is why I am not going to take on any criticism because I am not responding to interpellations in this House, because I am doing so more than most other ministers. Of course, even these questions of interpellation I am happy to discuss. In essence, I do not believe that we have different views on the substance. We on the part of the government take very seriously the threats and harassment, and sometimes the violence, that occurs against the traders that we are talking about in this context. That is precisely why we gave the police and the Security Service a special mission to strengthen the work against politically motivated crime. The job should be strengthened by preventing, preventing, aggravating and dealing with this political extremist crime. The police and the Swedish Security Service will report to me on 15 May 2018. This is perhaps particularly relevant now – as you were both on – when the political temperature is rising as we move towards the elections. It is even more important, of course, that we have a readiness for and monitoring of this type of extreme expression with which we can risk being confronted. In a democracy, it is taking fundamental importance, that is to say that we may have different opinions but that we allow these opinions to be broken against each other in a peaceful way. We also respect the decisions of political assemblies. If you do not, you will eventually be in danger of undermining democracy. You therefore need not be in doubt as to whether or not we take this seriously. That is precisely why we are taking action. As I said, we have given a mission to the Security Service and the police to specifically strengthen their ability in relation to this type of expression. We have also made some punitive efforts in relation to the type of crime we are talking about. I can mention the penalty for grossly illegal threats as we did on 1 July last year. Perhaps I should also mention the tightening up that we are doing with regard to the ban on contact, which will enter into force on 1 July this year. Then we will tighten the sanctions for those who violate a restraining order by up to two years in prison. This can be issued against those who harass, for example, traders. But at an earlier stage they should also be able to be covered with a anklet. Those who violate the ban on contact and continue to do so may be subject to a anklet. This is, as I said, a new order from 1 July 2018. This is a type of crime that we cannot accept, but we must ensure that we strengthen our ability to combat it. That is why we are also giving the Police Authority and the Security Service increased resources from this year on. We increase the resources by another SEK 2 billion to the police. We are doubling the number of prisoners to police training to ensure that there will be more employees overall in the agency, so that more crimes of all character are cleared up, including crimes of this nature.
i-a3164db704fbb827-33	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that. I understand that this is a difficult question, and I understand that it is difficult to deal with animal rights terrorism. But that does not mean that we can give up in the face of crime and autonomous groups in society – land is to be built by law. Unfortunately, I can see that activism creeps closer and closer to democratic society and into elected assemblies. Here in Parliament, there are motions to ban entrepreneurs from an ideological point of view more than a purely democratic one. Around the country there are also a number of strange statements by elected politicians. I was going to give you an example. Only last Monday, an environmental party in Västmanland wanted to show films from autonomous groups during the ongoing meeting of the game management delegation. When other delegates in the game management delegation declined on the grounds of uncertain sources and ongoing police investigations, they were called undemocratic and cowardly, by a representative coming from one of the government parties. That in itself is remarkable. But the worst thing is that it legitimises the group that we are currently debating, namely animal rights terrorists. The Minister and the Security Service call them a criminally active domestic extremist group. During yesterday's Question Time here in Parliament, the Minister's colleague Karolina Skog was unable to state clearly that she rejects civil disobedience. The threats and harassment have also spread from entrepreneurs to those politicians who dare to stand up and who dare to have an opinion on this. Questions about children, animals and pensioners are issues that concern us. For that reason, however, we must be allowed to debate the issues and we must have different views. It's part of democracy. A society can never accept that freedom of expression is limited by the threats of autonomous groups and that society does not dare to put its foot down and say: No, here but no longer! Freedom of expression and animal rights terrorism do not belong together. It is also important for the future to address these problems. They are so far geographically limited in Sweden. The police know which individuals this is about. We know that when some of these people are under lock and key, no such crimes are committed. Today, it is possible to impose a restraining order, as the Minister says. But it takes an incredible amount of time to bring them about. For a private person in a vulnerable situation, it is difficult to cope with. It cannot be that people can only be protected if they are assisted by professional organisations or elected congregations with special protection. These bans must be made more rapid by the relevant authorities than they are today. The police must also be given greater powers to reject disturbing elements from places where they directly interfere with the operation. Today football hooligans and protestors are bused far away from where they are so that they do not commit crimes of various kinds. Why can it not be done with activists outside mink farms or in forests where they interfere with hunting?
i-a3164db704fbb827-42	Madam President and the Government. We are pleased to note that Dan Eliasson has left his post as Chief Police Officer. The fact that the Swedish police have not been given the opportunity to maintain their part of the social contract with the citizens has been an obvious truth for a long time. Limited resources, incompetence and escalating crime are an unsustainable equation. It's good that you highlight that there's action going on, Morgan Johansson. At present, a political bidding is under way on how much you intend to invest in the police. It is absolutely positive, but the question remains: Is it more talk than a workshop, as it usually is? One thing that should be rewarded in politics is firmness of principle. If you have long maintained your promises, they should be taken with greater credibility. The Swedish Democrats have, year after year, faithfully advocated that the police and the entire judiciary should have far more resources than today. The fact that the situation of the police has been raised higher on the political agenda will hopefully lead to improvements – absolutely – but some areas will be rewarded over others. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that all citizens have equal rights to security and basic public services regardless of where they choose to live in the country. The Swedish democrats take crimes committed in our countryside very seriously, and we will never accept a system of few or no police officers and closed police stations in the countryside. In practice, a Swedish democratic policy means a higher police presence, of course in both urban and rural areas, dissuasive penalties and control of our borders. We are not just going to look at and neglect the people who choose to live, live and work in the countryside. We believe that it is time for the police and the judiciary to act against the crime that characterises the activism that characterises these movements. It is therefore important for the judicial authorities to better prosecute and map the individuals and organisations involved in the atrocities we are highlighting here. The National Police Board should also assume a national overall responsibility, while at the same time the penalty rates need to be significantly higher than today. Theft, intimidation, harassment, illegal intrusion, arson and vandalism directed at individual citizens and traders is unacceptable. We should all think so, and maybe we do. However, we in the Swedish Democrats believe that it is unreasonable to extradite animal owners and individual citizens to these undemocratic and violent animal rights activists. Measures must therefore be taken, and much more money must be allocated. That's what it looks like.
i-a3164db704fbb827-48	Madam President, I would like I do not think, as I said, that we have different views about criminal prosecution and that we should mark even harder against this type of crime than we have done in the past. I do not think there are any differences of opinion in that part. What we may have different views on is whether the measures we take are sufficient or not. I have said on a number of occasions that I am prepared to take even more action beyond what we have already done, but I would nevertheless like to point out that what we have done in the overall term of office – in these three and a half years – in terms of law enforcement is more than what the old government did in all its eight years. I have reported some of the punitive measures we have taken, for example in the case of gross illegal threats, but also serious violent crimes at all. We tightened the penalties considerably from July 1st last year. I talked about this with a restraining order. Of course it may take time to get a restraining order, but we will also tighten the sanctions for those who violate a restraining order once it is in place. So it can be as much as two years in prison for the person who does. In addition, if you violate a restraining order, you can be subjected to a anklet before that. So there is increased surveillance, and that is nothing that the bourgeois government did. Instead, we delivered it from July 1st. In my interpellation response, I presented the special mission we have given to the Police Authority and the Security Service to strengthen their efforts to prevent and prevent various types of extremist violence. Violence may come from left-wing or right-wing circles; the mission aims to reinforce efforts towards both. It will be reported to me on May 15th. In addition, we are going in with very large financial reinforcements to the Police Authority. The 2 billion we enter this year is the biggest increase to the Police Authority from one year to another, in this case from 2017 to 2018, as any government regardless of party color has done in 20 years. No government has invested as much money in the police as we do now. However, we are a little behind, I can say, with regard to the training part of the police. The bourgeois government trained very few police officers. Only 600 to 700 police officers were trained a year, and it is far too little when 400 to 500 police officers a year retire. Then you have a low educational rate. Now we've doubled the rate of education. In 2017, more than 1,300 were admitted to the programme, which means that 1,300 police students will go to police operations in 2019. That is how we have to do it: invest money so that we can keep the staff available, ensure that the working conditions of the police are improved and, at the same time, increase the rate of police training. It's the only way-- there are no shortcuts in this. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that there is money set aside. Just as a marker, I want to say that we should be a little careful with the words. When using the concept of terrorism, you should know that, in order to talk about terrorism, it should be an act that can seriously harm a state. Acts that could seriously harm states-- that's how we define terrorist crimes. I think you should be a little careful about how to use that concept and how to express yourself. As I said, however, there are no differences of opinion as to how seriously we view this politically motivated crime. We are doing everything we can to deal with it as well.
i-a3164db704fbb827-56	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the debate. Neither the Minister nor I want criminals to take over society, and I think it is important that we have this debate. For there is a situation in society right now that is totally unacceptable, and something needs to be done about it. I think it is good that the Minister is now coming up with several measures to tackle the problem, but I think that more is needed – unfortunately. Freedom of expression must never be misused as a pretext for persecution and harassment. I'm using the word, animal rights terrorism. As the Minister says, terrorism is a serious word, and it is a threat to a state. However, I think that this type of activity, where autonomous groupings move in society and seriously harm it, is a form of terrorism. It is the new form of terrorism that we see in society, and we must respond to it in the way that it expresses itself. I also think that responsibility needs to be strengthened even more within Säpo. I would like the Security Service or a special police unit to have a clearer mission – perhaps a specific, specific mission – to look at this particular issue. We see that there is greater mobility among these groupings in different parts of Sweden, and it would be good if the police had a single unit to deal with this. It's about marking where these people are, what their purpose is and what they're doing, to get Olle into the gate early. This does not only threaten traders. It threatens private individuals, hunters and politics. This is a threat to today's society, and it is therefore important that the signals from this House and from Rosenbad are united against crime and civil disobedience.
i-a3164db704fbb827-60	Madam President and the Government. Pure terror was committed to stop a farmer down in Västergötland from becoming a mink farmer. There were threats to the family and a desecrated family grave, and the son and sister were threatened with death. The parents got two unexploded fire bombs in the mailbox. The uncle received threatening letters and an axe through his window, and his grandmother's grave was vandalized — a deep pit had been dug, and the tombstone had been overturned. It became two and a half years in prison for, among other things, arson and crimes against the grift peace law. One was given a year, and others were given probation and probation. Hunt Saboteurs Sweden is a group that celebrates cut-down hunting towers and threatens hunters. The group says: "Hunt the hunters" and calls for hunting of hunters. Licensing was disrupted in Kölstareviret, Västmanland. According to Expressen, an environmentalist judge threatened to destroy the wolf hunt by standing between the hunter and the wolf. It is the chairman of Nordulv, an organisation that usually uses the right of appeal to stop government decisions. A Värmland farmer and her daughter were threatened with both rape and death because they milk their cows and send them to slaughter. According to Radio Värmland, the men were in Animal Rights and belonged to Feminist initiative in Värmland. I do not want to take such low grips as the Minister of Justice has taken on SD in other contexts and draw links between the Social Democrats and these organisations. At the same time, however, the parties and currents that you form government with and actively take the support of in Parliament. That rhetoric is, of course, you, Morgan Johansson, and your own party is not late to resort to when the chance arises. Between 2003 and 2010, 341 crimes of a more serious nature were reported against Swedish mink farmers. It was the largest in the world – the second came Spain with 120 reported crimes.
i-a3164db704fbb827-65	Madam President, I would like Of all parties in the Swedish parliament, SD may speak with the very least letters about links to different radical movements. It is enough to go in and look a little at the history of the Swedish Democrats – and also at the party's present, for that matter – when it comes to links with various extreme organisations. With that we can leave this discussion, but I want to say that there is a lot of stone in glass houses, Runar Filer! Turning to the substance of the matter, I can say that there are no differences of opinion here at all on the view of this type of crime. It is clear that we must ensure that we strengthen our efforts against those who engage in politically motivated crime in this way. This crime can often include harassment, violence or threats, which is totally repugnant. So what do we do? We're tightening up the penalty rates. We are making sure that the sanctions for these individuals are tightened up. We are ensuring that the financial resources of the police and the Security Service are increased to detect this type of crime. We also give the police and the Security Service a special mission to strengthen their efforts. That is how it is done, and I would like to say once again that this government has done more than any previous government on this issue as well as on general law enforcement. I am not taking this lightly, but it is the other way around. This is about ensuring that we meet a development where we see increased polarisation in society. Then it is for those of us who stand up for democracy and for a decent political dialogue to ensure that the political decisions that exist are followed. We must ensure that this type of extreme movement can be vigorously combated.
i-a3164db704fbb827-70	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take with a view to ensuring that all municipalities continue to have a police officer present who can curb and prevent crime and combat insecurity in the respective municipalities. In recent years the police have had to deal with an increased threat of terrorism, migration flows and an escalation of violence among gang criminals. South region is one of the police regions most affected. At the same time, the agency has undergone the largest reorganisation of the government in modern times. The challenges have been dealt with on the basis of the initial conditions and the level of staffing left behind by the previous government. The new organisation of the police has enabled the agency to quickly gather together in a completely different way than in the past in the event of serious events and in the face of new crime phenomena. Based on the given resources available to the Police Authority, these new conditions have enabled the police in Region South to also gather together against the developments that have taken place in Malmö, among other places. It has been necessary and good. But that's not enough. The human resources are not sufficient to address these major challenges while maintaining a reasonable level of staffing across the country. The Government has therefore decided to implement a historically large resource enhancement of the Police Authority. The Government has proposed and announced contributions to the Swedish Police Authority of approximately SEK 9.8 billion. The aim is to increase the number of police employees by another 10 0000 to 2024. The government has also doubled the number admitted to police training in relation to the previous government. In 2014, 689 students were admitted to police training, while 1 398 students were adopted in 2017. The police authority has also been commissioned by the government to launch a recruitment campaign and to investigate the conditions for starting police training in two new locations in the country. Against this background, the Government decided on 21 December that Malmö University may conduct police training provided that there is a valid agreement between the University and the Police Authority. These are measures that, taken together, will have a major impact on the political authority's ability to respond to societal developments. I am convinced that it will also make a difference in Malmö, Svedala, Trelleborg, Vellinge and Ystad.
i-a3164db704fbb827-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, it is an answer that I find strange in at least two ways. First of all, it is not close to giving any immediate solution or any answer to the police shortage found in Skåne and in very many Swedish municipalities outside the big cities. In my interpellation I mention only a handful of Scanian municipalities that have suffered from the police shortage, but the problem is found throughout the country. Secondly, the Government seems more interested in putting the blame for the current situation on the previous government than in taking its own responsibility for the lack of action shown by his government on legal matters for almost three and half years. Madam President, I would like The very core issue remains that many municipalities – in my case Scanian municipalities in the countryside – have too few police officers present. The police officers who have been stationed there have, due to the difficult situation in Malmö, with gang crime, shootings and bombings, been ordered to Malmö to help. This is well-lawed and, to some extent, understandable if the aid is of a temporary nature, but, unfortunately, temporary orders have become long. Since the local police presence in the municipalities has thus largely disappeared, we can now read about resuming crime in several places that have previously been spared from major crimes, such as Ystad, Svedala and Staffanstorp. The connection is quite simple: if there is no police in place, crime can spread. This is exactly what is happening now in Skåne, among others. The south police region is faced with an almost impossible task – they should be in two or three places at once. To quote the Government's answer: a human resource is not enough to deal with these major challenges while at the same time establishing a reasonable staffing across the country. ..................................................... It was precisely for this reason that I asked my interpellation! What am I supposed to say to troubled residents who are concerned that the police are no longer visible and are not patrolling the city and that insecurity is allowed to spread in society, especially for young women? The Government of Johansson refers to efforts on the judicial system, increased number of training places and more adopted on the existing police training courses. That's good. The problem is that the situation is serious here and now. I welcome the recruitment and training of more police officers, but this does not solve the problems we have to address now. The government now needs to be able to act – a force of action that, unfortunately, seems to be lacking. The only way to act was for the government to finally decide to replace former National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson, a person to whom the government has otherwise almost foolishly given its full support and refused to replace them. As I said earlier, I welcome new police officers, but I am also keen that the good police officers we already have in the profession should remain in their jobs. The paralysis of the government and the poor management of the police have led to a number of police officers having stopped prematurely. In 2017 alone, 905 police officers chose to resign. Some of these departures are retirements, but well over half of the police are dissatisfied with their work situation. For the already hard hit Police region south, in which the municipalities of my constituency and not least Malmö are included, the figure is 253 departures in the last twelve months. Of these, 165 are for reasons other than retirement. Surely this must give rise to a reaction from the Government, which, like me, comes from this part of the country? In view of the fact that the answers to my interpellation are more likely to land a number of years in the future and I do not respond to today's problems, I have to ask Minister Johansson again and with unruly stubbornness: What concrete measures does the Government want to take in order for the surrounding municipalities around Malmö to be able to rely on a present and local police officer who can maintain security?
i-a3164db704fbb827-90	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is that we now go in with more resources to the Police Authority than any government has in 20 years, regardless of party color. We have increased from one year to another, from 2017 to 2018, by 2 billion. We will increase by 2.3 billion next year and 2.8 billion the following year. We've never seen such a big increase before. We are doing this in order for the police to grow. We say that the number of police employees will increase by 10,000 to 2024. How many of them should be police officers or civilian employees is an assessment that the Police Authority must make. However, with today's distribution, about one third of civilian workers and two thirds of police officers, we would be talking about another 6 000 – 7 000 police officers and 3 000 – 4 000 additional civilian workers by 2024. A number of measures have to be taken to achieve this. Working conditions must be improved. That is why we have given the Police Authority a special mandate to review the working environment, working conditions and career paths, and we have also sent money for this. In addition, you have to have the issue of wages in place. The police authorities and the Police Association signed a wage agreement just a few weeks ago, which means better wage development for the police than for other groups. They are substantially above the so-called mark, which applies to other groups. This also means increased salary increases for police officers in external service and for police officers in vulnerable areas. In addition, it is strong in the sense that the big money is already going out this year. Special efforts are being made to improve working conditions and to re-cruit police officers who have left the force, and I believe that even more of this kind needs to be done in order to get those who have left the force back. Furthermore, more people need to be educated. My main criticism of the former Moderat government is that it was far too low on the educational side. One cannot train 600 – 700 police officers per year while, as Anders Hansson also notes, 400 – 500 police officers retire per year. Then the margins are far too small. Nowadays, there is a private labour market for police officers who did not exist 15 to 20 years ago. They're also twitching our cops. Then it is important to be a good employer in order to keep people in the corps. But you simply also need to train more people than you did in the past and take up the new labour market that is now in place. We've doubled the rate of police training, so next year 1 300 new police students will be out. That's the highest rate since 2010, when it was a peak. Then you dramatically reduced the number of training places. But next year, as I said, 1 300 new police officers are going out. They will then strengthen police operations across the country – also in our part of Sweden, Anders Hansson, around Malmö, Lund, Trelleborg, Svedala and so on. They'll be important in that part. And one can say that our part of the country is particularly affected by gang crime, proximity to the continent, weapons and drugs with the problems that policemen there face all the time. There will thus be more resources, more training places, better working conditions for the country's police and a power collection against gang crime in the way that happened in Malmö and which is basically good.
i-a3164db704fbb827-99	Madam President, I would like I think that is a lot of sensible proposals. I think I and Minister Johansson fully agree that there is a need for more police officers. The sad thing is that the number of policemen has decreased. In 2014, for example, there were 20,051 police officers employed, and in 2017 there were 19,741. There is thus a difference despite all the efforts that Minister Johansson mentions have been taken. In itself, I do not want to have that discussion, but it may depend a little on how many police officers were trained and who then came out. The number of students admitted to the Police College was 1,048 in 2006, in 2007 it was 1,310, and in 2008 it was 1,708. Then it decreased, considering that we would be up to 20 000. At the time, we were up to the additional 2,500 police officers who were also the promise of the alliance government. The number increased from 17,500 to 20,000 police officers. That's why we cut the number. Otherwise, we would have continued the increase up to perhaps 21 000 police officers, which in itself had now proved to be quite excellent. But then at least the promise was 20,000. It was problematic that the promise was very strong during the current government, because the number of police officers was below 20 000. It is wise for new police officers to be trained. It's a good initiative. I am, for example, in favour of a police college in Skåne. Perhaps there will also be a new police college somewhere else in the country in addition to the three that we already have. But a fundamental problem is that there are empty places in the police colleges. It is worrying that the places will not be filled as there are a lot of applications to the police colleges. It is always difficult to make a completely correct assessment, but between the thumb and the index finger I get it that today there are a total of 500 places in the police colleges that are not filled. In fact, it's an understatement that seats are empty at our police colleges when we need more police officers. Therefore, I may find it a little strange that two new police colleges are being set up. But I am prepared to think outside that box, that the three may not be enough and that recruitment increases. The problem remains that 500 seats are empty. We should take this very seriously. I'm a little interested to hear what Minister Johansson says in that part. Then there's cops who quit. This is extremely worrying. There were 678 police officers who ended in 2014, 832 in 2015, 950 in 2016 and 905 in 2017. This is very many. Some of them were retirements, about half. But it is still far too much that ends. I therefore welcome Morgan Johansson's ambition that the police should receive higher salaries, especially those in external service. I myself once worked in law enforcement, but not in external service, and I think it is usually in external service that the villains are caught. As I said, there are many good ideas and thoughts. But I'd like to hear what Morgan Johansson thinks about the police colleges.
i-a3164db704fbb827-105	Madam President, I would like Historic description is correct. Your government made a move during your first period to get the number of police officers up to 20,000. Now it must be said that it was in fact the Social Democrats that set the target of 20 000 in 2006. But your government until then made a move to get the number of police officers up to over 20,000 by 2010, which it also managed. The problem was that you lost speed during your second period and slowed down the pace of education considerably. The last years of your second reign ended up in a total of 600 - 700 per year. It is simply not enough if you want the corps to grow and take into account that we have a different labour market now than before. Police education is an attractive education that also provides skills to work with many private employers. That is why we must understand that we must offer such good working conditions that people in the corps can be kept. My criticism in this part is that you lost momentum during the last parliamentary term. Let's peel this up. It takes two and a half years to train a cop, so this isn't something you turn around just overnight. Now, as I said, we have scaled this up, and next year, 2019, it will expire 1 300 from the education. Only Social Democrats are opening up new police training. There has never been a moderate government. We opened in Umeå and Växjö, and I was there at that time too, when we made those decisions in the Chamber. We are now opening in Malmö, and you will be able to apply for police training in Malmö already this spring because it will be started in spring 2019. We will also open in West Sweden. The police department is going to produce a basis for me on how and where this is going to happen. This initiative means broadening the recruitment base, and I think we will see even more applicants. We have almost 10 000 applicants when the training starts every six months, half of which are qualified. Then we have to pass the tests. Here we come to Anders Hansson's second question, namely how we do to really fill the places that exist. I believe that we will need to increase the number of seats and bring in up to 2 000 per year in the coming years, and then we need to fill these seats. I believe that we will see more applicants as a result of new training courses and increased recruitment documents. Another important thing is that the psychological tests are carried out by the National Defence Personnel Agency. The problem was that when you abolished military service, you also severely cut back on the Recruiting Authority. We have therefore had to scale up not only police training but also the Recruiting Authority. Here it has been a bottleneck, because you have not had enough psychologists to do the tests you needed. It was a problem last autumn to distribute how many conscripts and new police students to take. Now the Recruiting Authority has expanded its operations and recruited more psychologists, so from this spring it will meet the needs of police students as well. I am convinced that we will then be able to fill more seats.
i-a3164db704fbb827-114	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Johansson for an interesting speech. I am pleased when the Government is talking about broadening the recruitment base. Let me just say that it is important that we do not lower the requirements, which has sometimes been discussed to bring in more. We shall continue to have high demands on those we want to be our police officers so that we can have the very best police officers in the business. Let me get back to the interpellation. It is easy for us to get into the number of police officers back and forth, but the interpellation is about the lack of police officers in the municipalities right now. We have white spots on the map, for example in Skåne where the police unfortunately do not exist to the extent that the municipalities want. When the police withdraw, crime will find these white spots. Unfortunately, in Ystad, drug trafficking has resumed precisely because police staffing is so low. It's bad, and it can't go on like that. When you don't manage to be everywhere, you don't disturb the criminals in the way I'd like. You don't get the contact with young people and other people that I want. You don't get local knowledge or local trust. I think it is important that we not only wait for the newly recruited policemen but try to ensure that these municipalities already have some form of minimum staffing or minimum staffing requirements. It must not be the case that the Police Authority leaves a municipality entirely. There must be police locals.
i-a3164db704fbb827-120	Madam President, I would like We had exceptional circumstances in Malmö last year due to the large number of shootings. This meant bringing together police resources from all over South Sweden to Malmö to help with the investigations, among other things. I think it was really done, because we all benefit from breaking the organised crime in Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm. A good job was done, and now there are over 70 prisoners in Malmö. We are also expanding the number of detention centres. In Helsingborg we only got another 40 seats the other day. We need a place to lock up the bad guys. In Malmö they did a good job, and since the turn of the year the special event has ended, which means that in some parts you can return to their regular services. However, the pressure on the criminals in Malmö is not decreasing. On the contrary, it will continue to be strong, for it must be. But as I said, the special event is over, which means that resources can be released to other parts of South Sweden. One cannot escape that the basic problem is that we have too low staffing. We need to increase staffing, and that is why we are investing in working conditions, good wage developments, increased police training and new large resources for the police. Then we will see a good development in the Police Authority in the future.
i-a3164db704fbb827-124	Madam President, I would like Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me whether I am prepared to take initiatives or measures to carry out a review of official responsibilities with a view to extending and strengthening it. It is important for the public to have a high level of confidence in the responsible and proper management of public administration tasks. On 1 July this year, a new administrative law will enter into force. The new law strengthens the legal certainty of individuals in contact with authorities and speeds up case management. A good administrative culture is also about the professional values that should characterise all government employees. Since January 2017, Statskontoret has been tasked with promoting and coordinating the work for a good administrative culture in the state. Among other things, it is a matter of state employees knowing and complying with the laws and preventing corruption. It is also about developing an ethical compass and an ability to deal with difficult situations and dilemmas. All of this helps to create, maintain and strengthen trust in the state. In order for citizens to have confidence in the impartiality, efficiency and legal certainty of public administration, it is also necessary to have a properly designed system of accountability when errors are committed. There can be considered to be three legs for such liability: a criminal offence, a labour law and a liability law. Criminal liability shall take place in the event of the most serious attacks on the interests of citizens in the proper management of public tasks. In order to maintain public confidence in public administration, it is important that criminal liability for misconduct is properly designed. I am open to reviewing the adequacy of criminal protection.
i-a3164db704fbb827-129	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for your answer. I note with satisfaction that the Government has taken my question very seriously and, in its reply, is also willing to proceed in some kind of investigation to see whether criminal liability in the event of misconduct is sufficient. I firmly believe that this is not the case in Sweden. In 1975 the Law on civil servants' liability was fundamentally amended. The amendment entered into force on 1 January 1976. The main difference was that, in most cases, what was previously tried in court as misconduct was now taken over by the internal disciplinary group of the authority. In practice, this has often meant that only serious misconduct is investigated and prosecuted, while minor misconduct does not lead to any criminal liability whatsoever. There is therefore a radical difference between the old legislation before 1976, when the official was able to obtain both suspension and disposal in the event of serious infringements. Every year more than 8 000 complaints of misconduct are received in Sweden. Of course, in many of these notifications there is no suspicion whatsoever of infringements. However, despite the increase in notifications in recent years, at least over a ten-year period, there are now less than 50 cases that are admissible, and only about 25 are given some kind of reminder or some form of punishment in relation to the criminal law part. Madam President, I would like This is basically about trust, just as the Government said. It is extremely important that citizens have great confidence that our authorities are always doing their best in a fair way and that everyone is equal before the law. Everyone knows that if the citizen himself is sloppy, for example with the tax, society is imposing rather harsh sanctions. This must be accepted in a legal society. However, it is also important for citizens to know that if an official makes a significant mistake, he or she will be given criminal responsibility for this.
i-a3164db704fbb827-133	Madam President, I would like I basically have a great deal of confidence in those who work in government and municipal administration. The administrative culture and official culture that we have in Sweden, I believe, are characterised by a very high level of competence and impartiality. Furthermore, we know from all the international evaluations that are being carried out that we have much less problems with corruption and that kind of concern than in many other countries. I would like to say that we basically have a very good administrative structure. That does not mean that it is not done wrong from time to time. This can happen, and it is important that we have a good system to ensure that this can be addressed. However, I do not think that single errors can be the basis for using rhetoric that stamps the whole administration or for claiming that the administration as a whole would not act properly. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng talks about the number of complaints about misconduct and mentions the figure of 8 000. This figure was correct in 2012. At that time 8 000 complaints were made about the offence of misconduct. In recent years, however, that figure has fallen. The latest figure is 6,000 and is from 2016. We had a peak in 2012. After that, there has been a decrease. I would like to put this on the record. There is no increase in complaints of misconduct. As I said in the interpellation response, I am prepared to review the protection of criminal law and see if it is sufficient. But then you have to think about the form in which you should do this and also of course with what direction. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng gives little guidance on what he thinks you should look at. What was the case before 1975 was that even very minor omissions and minor errors could be made punishable and brought to justice. As a result, officials could be brought to justice for these. This is what was changed. Instead, that part, criminal liability, was transferred to, for example, rules on disciplinary liability. It could then be a matter of warnings or salary deductions. I am not prepared to go back to the situation that prevailed before 1975. However, I would like to look at how practices have developed in recent years to see if there has been any shift, meaning that – as is claimed – you take this type of error less seriously than you did in the past. For example, every day police officers are faced with rather difficult decisions to make. It can be about care, the use of violence and various confrontations. Should we go completely back to the previous system and extend this responsibility to those situations, I think that would lead us on a path that we cannot really take responsibility for. Is this what Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is after, that you should capture those situations too? Does he want to capture even municipal congregations, so that they can be brought before a court, for example, for contempt of a court? Should it also constitute misconduct? That discussion has taken place. These are my questions to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng.
i-a3164db704fbb827-139	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Government distinguishes between criminal law, labour law and liability for damages in these matters. He was into it in his last post. We are mostly discussing the criminal justice area and the serious errors. That's what I've been interrogating the Council of State about. And there is actually a great value in whether a review of the more serious cases comes to court and is not handled internally by an authority. For example, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen thought that this was a long time ago, in 1975, over 40 years ago – that a penalty has a significantly stronger standard-setting effect than a disciplinary penalty. And one can probably agree with this after just over 40 years of this legislation. Justice Council Thomas Bull comments on the statistics – whether there are 8,000 cases or 6,000 cases, as we were told here – and believes that the courts have become more forgiving in their jurisdiction in these cases, so much so that misconduct is almost decriminalised. It's a serious signal. Instead, the most common disciplinary sanctions are an internal warning or a few days' salary deduction. In other words, responsibility has shifted to a whole system of labour law between employers and employees. This issue also came up with the scandals that have so far been brought to light by the Swedish Transport Agency. Of course, we should not precede the investigations that are working on this case, but that is an example. It is easy to note that in such cases it is a great advantage to have clear legislation in the field of criminal law.
i-a3164db704fbb827-142	Madam President, I would like I note that Lars-Arne Staxäng continues to talk about the gross errors. As I understand it, he does not want to go back to the 1975 regulations, which meant that even very small omissions and purely minor errors could lead to penalties. But for the possible mapping we're going to do, it would be good to know what position the Moderates have. As I said, I am open to reviewing whether there has been any change in practice recently. I know that not many of these notifications really lead to sanctions. You can actually look at what this is because of. Is the limit simply too low? I am happy to look at this further. I'll open the door. But going back to the 1975 system does not seem to me or Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng to be interested in. I also asked a question about municipal congregations. This issue has also been highlighted in this context. Is this to be broadened to include that? There I did not get a clear answer from Staxäng. For my part, I am not prepared to go that far in this regard. Then Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng mentions the Swedish Transport Agency. The truth is that what we know is that the person who made this decision, that is, the Director-General in this case, was also convicted, not of misconduct, but of negligence with a secret task. This, in turn, led to the effects of labour law, which allowed her to leave her post. There was therefore both a criminal and a labour law sanction for this. Using it as an example that the system would not have worked, I do not think it is quite fair. It's the other way around. Here the system worked in the sense that this was discovered and was sanctioned by criminal law. However, as I said, I am happy to continue this discussion to see if practices have in any way changed and where to draw the limits of criminal liability.
i-a3164db704fbb827-147	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate, which I think is quite important. We have discussed whether it is 8 000 or 6 000 cases. In the investigation that I was looking at, there were 8,000 for a long time, until 2015. It is possible that the Government has some later figure. However, if there has been a decrease, it is perhaps a signal that people notice that there is no reason to report misconduct, as it does not advance. When under 50 cases are investigated and only half are convicted of misconduct, it is a serious signal. I appeal to the Government, as he writes in his first answer, to look at the question. I'm not suggesting that minor errors should be brought to court. We have other far worse things to deal with there. However, in the event of serious misconduct, as at the Transport Agency, it should be possible to convict officials. The Government asked: Is this to be done throughout the public sector and also in the municipal assemblies? I can imagine that it can also be done there in certain grosser offences, especially in the exercise of authority in different ways. There have been glaring misconducts in the municipal sector as well. It is important that we look at the law and that we raise it so that it becomes a law so that serious misconduct, when they occur, is also prosecuted in the field of criminal law.
i-a3164db704fbb827-153	Madam President, I would like Just so that there is no misunderstanding: decisions in municipal administrations are also covered by the acquis. This is already the case today in the exercise of official authority. That has not changed at all. What I am talking about is whether councillors, for example, take decisions that could be interpreted as going against a court order and whether it could also be subject to misconduct. That discussion has been raised not least by Thomas Bodström, to whom you referred. I don't think we should go that far in that regard. When you engage in the exercise of authority, you are also covered by the criminal law framework. It works that way whether you are a government or municipal official. Then we can discuss where the limits of criminal liability should be. I pointed out that before 1975 it was so far extended that even minor errors, such as those committed by a social security secretary or by a police officer, could be brought to justice. In that case, it might have been more appropriate to use a warning, a salary reduction or something like that. There would be some kind of disciplinary sanction instead. That is what the 1975 changeover meant. I'm not prepared to go back to the 1975 order. On the other hand, I would like to take this issue further by reviewing it. Has there been any change of practice in recent years, where the limit of what one considers to be serious or less serious has been shifted? I'd be happy to continue that process.
i-a3164db704fbb827-158	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson has asked me whether I believe that the ongoing civil protection investigation should also cover the labour market policy issue of compensation from the unemployment fund for the part-time fireman who loses his main job and whether I intend to give the investigation further directives. The municipalities are responsible for civil protection and preventive activities within the municipality. These activities have long been organised with full-time and part-time firefighters and fire officers. The availability of emergency facilities that can quickly be in place and start a relief operation is crucial for effective and safe response. It is therefore serious that many municipalities cannot maintain their determined preparedness for civil protection. One clear reason for this is that, for various reasons, municipalities have great difficulty in recruiting and retaining part-time firefighters and fire officers, that is to say, rescue workers on standby. The Government therefore commissioned a special investigator in February 2017 to analyse the municipalities' ability to conduct civil protection and fire prevention activities. The investigator shall analyse and propose how these activities can be carried out in a more equivalent, efficient and safe manner. An essential part of the assignment means that the investigator will analyse and propose how municipalities will be better able to recruit part-time firefighters and fire officers. According to the assignment, it is possible for the investigator to analyse the issue of compensation from the unemployment fund. The assignment shall be reported by 30 June 2018. The government will continue to closely monitor developments in this area and, if necessary, take further action. At the same time, it is of great importance that municipalities take the necessary measures to ensure the efficiency and quality of the activities concerned.
i-a3164db704fbb827-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Government for your answer! I am pleased that Minister Morgan Johansson and I share the view on how important our part-time firefighters are for the civil protection services in the municipalities to function. Today there are about 15 000 full-time and part-time firefighters who are committed to helping us and others in the event of an accident, crisis or disaster. Of these, roughly 10 000 are part-time firefighters. The Estonian 5,000 are full-time firefighters. I have had the privilege of getting involved more deeply in civil protection and total defence issues, and in particular a sentence really got hold of me. The sentence is: Every accident or disaster occurs in a municipality, and first on site is usually the municipal emergency services. In a procedure in which seconds can be the decisive difference between life or death, relief or tragedy, the work and preparedness of our emergency workers becomes even more important. Unfortunately, the difference between rural and urban areas is also reminded, where large cities can afford full-time employees while most smaller municipalities use – admittedly committed and skilled – part-time firemen who, in addition to their regular jobs, also serve as rescue workers. The fact that we can then provide these firefighters with the right conditions to carry out their important work is fundamental to the security of their inhabitants. In most places, however, the conditions for both recruiting and working as a part-time fireman have, unfortunately, deteriorated for a long time. The lack of part-time firefighters is already manifesting itself in various places. For example, there is a report about part-time firefighters in Holmsund outside Umeå, who are denied holiday in the summer when there are not enough staff to give leave. The problem is found in several other parts of the country. In some cases it may be the changing labour market with more mobile jobs and longer distances to rescue stations that affect recruitment, but sometimes things should not really be a concern. The state cannot sit back and refer all questions to the municipalities, as responsibility for a functioning civil protection service is also an important part of Sweden's total defence. Herein lies a little of my criticism of the Government's response. Indeed, Morgan Johansson refers to the investigation that is ongoing on the matter and that was set up in February 2017 with a requirement for accounting no later than 30 June this year. It is a good thing that an investigation is being conducted. Honor for this. It is designed to ensure the recruitment of part-time firefighters in the future. However, since we have seen difficulties in the municipalities in recruiting and retaining part-time firefighters in most places and for a long time, the time required for the investigation concerns me. The investigation will last 11⁄2 years. After that, there should be a handling at the department for perhaps at least six months and possibly at the earliest a two-year bill. It's too long. If there is a fire, you cannot wait until the flames are at waist height before starting the extinguishing work, although different persons may have different waist heights. Another problem is that part-time firefighters who are laid off from their regular jobs but continue as part-time firefighters risk losing unemployment benefit every time they respond to alarms. Since they are not entirely at the disposal of the labour market, the rules say that they cannot get full unemployment benefit. This madness must change, and it is a matter for the state and the government to deal with. In his answer, Minister Johansson says that there is an opportunity for the current investigation to analyse the issue of compensation from the unemployment fund. I call for a little more action and more directness from the Government than that. Does the Government intend to ensure that the investigator is given this important additional directive to include the issue of unemployment benefit in the investigation?
i-a3164db704fbb827-174	Madam President, I would like First of all, we certainly agree that part-time firefighters and fire officers are very important in maintaining security in the municipalities. A large part of the business depends on the existence of those who have other jobs but who can occasionally get involved when needed. If this did not exist, our system would not work. At the bottom, there are also employers who allow their staff to make this important contribution to society and leave their usual workplace in these situations. This is a fundamentally well-functioning system, but they need to be increased. It's quite obvious. We have had too little skills in this area for many years. We were just talking about the police, and here we have the same situation. Just as we talked about the police, we need to improve the conditions for securing the supply of skills. We also need to educate more people. What has happened this year is that the number of seats has increased. Previously there were only two courses, in Lund and in Härnösand, that is Sandö and Revinge. Now MSB has bought up another six training places, so now the training is given in a total of eight places in the country, which I think can mean that they also broaden the recruitment documentation. We train about 550 part-time firefighters per year. Already we have a need for up to 800, and in the long term perhaps up to 1 000 part-time firemen. We therefore need to scale up this activity as well. As I mentioned in the interpellation response, the government has set up an investigation with Jan-Åke-Åke Björklund who is reviewing the Rescue Service. There are many questions he looks at, and the supply of skills is one of them. It sounded a little cryptic in the interpellation response, but I can say that I know that the investigator has also drawn attention to the a-cassage issue. So he also looks at it, so I do not need to give him any specific additional directives. The basic problem is that if you become unemployed from this regular job and instead go to unemployment benefit, you simply risk going back financially every time you pull out because your unemployment benefit is reduced during that day. It is not compensated by the hourly compensation received. This is, of course, very unsatisfactory. It's a factor for some of those who quit. I won't say it's a huge factor, but it's a factor for some. It would be good if we could get to grips with this. So Jan-Åke Björklund will deliver his report in June, and then we will see what he has come up with. But the short answer is: Yes, the investigator also takes in and analyses these questions.
i-a3164db704fbb827-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much to Minister Johansson! This was gratifying. I take the answer to revenue because the investigator will look at the a-cassette, which affects a large part of the part-time firemen's ability to do their job. I share the view of Minister Johansson that many of our part-time firefighters – I have talked to several of them about this – are particularly good and committed individuals. They're not doing this for the money. They say: We don't do it to get rich, but we do it because we think we have a responsibility and because we want to make a difference. I think they deserve great praise for doing this, and I have to say that the part-time firefighters I have encountered – and this also applies to full-time firefighters – show enormous will and commitment, which I really think we should take advantage of. It's necessary. They are first in place in many accidents, disasters, fires and floods. They play an important role. There are also other possibilities when we are at it. Now Minister Johansson and I are talking a little alongside the investigation. I understand that the investigation itself will guide what happens next. However, I was going to take the opportunity to give some input that could be considered, and I hope that the investigator will sit and listen to this very good debate. You can work part-time as a fireman, and we can perhaps review the possibility of even working part-time as a police officer. There is a proposal from the Moderates where we are talking about some form of part-time police. You are then fully trained as a police officer but you have a police profession and also work part-time within the Rescue Service. It's an opportunity to look at. Another issue on which both I and Minister Johansson were concerned is the importance of the right conditions and the importance of maintaining the emergency services that we have. This applies not only to the unemployment fund, but also to their security. I know that there has been a recent investigation of this with regard to the bluelight staff. Unfortunately, emergency services have a somewhat ungrateful task there, because they do not have the status of officials such as police officers. Then it becomes a matter of concern when someone behaves badly against civil protection personnel, because you cannot get into legislation on violence or threats to civil servants. It would have been a great advantage if we could get this in just to ensure the safety of part-time firefighters. It is to be hoped that such legislation will not be needed, but unfortunately, as the Government says in its response, attacks on bluelight personnel in vulnerable areas where gangs of young people are ravaging are not uncommon. I think we need to do something about this. These are two parts that I would like to highlight in this. I am pleased that the unemployment fund is involved in the work of the investigation, and I do not believe in any way that Morgan Johansson and I have different views on the importance of the work of part-time firefighters. I am therefore pleased that it seems that we are on the same line: as far as possible, they should be able to remain in their profession.
i-a3164db704fbb827-187	Madam President, I would like To begin with, it is fun to hear a moderate talk positively about the unemployment fund. You don't usually do that, but on the contrary: As soon as you take office, you usually hijack it in different ways. Now I don't know if you'll do that again if you end up in government. It remains to be seen. But the experience so far is that you are happy to go after it. We've made a change. In addition to the fact that our government has generally improved the unemployment fund, we have made a change that has a bearing on the part-employed: we removed the so-called 75-day rule. We did that a few years ago. It was a big deal, and as far as I know it wasn't a question that the Moderates were pushing particularly hard. But we have removed it, and that means that we now have 300 days instead of the 75 days. This means an improvement in these situations as well. As I said, the investigator is also looking at the issue itself and how it could be solved for part-time firefighters. We'll see what he finds out in this part. I am prepared to take measures with this in order to ensure that it is done, even if the regulations themselves may be with another minister, namely the Minister for Labour. Nevertheless, the question is, as it were, on radar. I share the view that those who attend the training courses and enter there are characterised by a very strong commitment and a high level of competence. Sweden is good at training firefighters and fire officers at all. We are so good that you come here from other countries to use our training places and our technology. I visited the training place in Revinge just a few months ago and got to experience and take part of it and meet the young people who are now training. But we need to scale up the business from 550 places a year to at least 800 and perhaps even 1,000. But then we are in a position to have, as in many other parts, a shortage of labour. There is such pressure on the labour market now with 100,000 job vacancies. Youth unemployment is very low, and we really get to fight for the young people now to get them into our activities. In the end, it is a matter of being able to offer good conditions. Maybe the unemployment fund is part of it. Security is another part. Anders Hansson raised the issue of risks when taking action and the protection of criminal law for this. We gave the rich complainer a few years ago a mandate to review criminal law protection for attacks on bluelight personnel. He returned to me three weeks ago with a proposal to establish a new criminal offence called blue light sabotage, which also covers emergency services – police, rescue services and ambulance care. This is being tightened up and the penalties imposed on those who engage in this type of activity. I think that is an important point. I can't stand to see, simply, people who go after those who are out to save other people's lives. That is totally unacceptable, and we must mark very hard against it. The proposal is such that in the case of serious attacks on blue-light personnel, on their equipment and cars or anything else, which makes their activities more difficult, we can end the serious attacks in prison for life. That's the idea. We will proceed with this to Parliament before the elections.
i-a3164db704fbb827-194	Madam President, I would like The last is important, not least in terms of the protection of criminal law. I also read the D.A.'s investigation, and it's very good in it. What I can worry a little about is this particular sabotage thing, which makes it feel a little more like it's material it's all about. I am pleased if it also concerns the staff, which I definitely think it should. If this is not done, it is an opportunity to give civil protection staff the status of civil servants. I think this seems promising. It is important that the conditions of part-time firefighters are recognised. I look forward to the investigation that will come and what it will give, and I hope for swift management, given that there are already concerns similar to what I mentioned in my speech earlier that Holmsund cannot get a holiday because there are too few in the part-time team. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon for this to happen in some places. I thank you very much for your reply and for the debate with the Government and look forward to many sensible proposals in this area so that together we can have a good and effective civil protection service.
i-a3164db704fbb827-197	Madam President, I would like Yes, Anders Hansson can count on many and hopefully wise and balanced proposals to come. The A-cassage issue is taken care of in the investigation. I would also like to mention the defence arrangement that we made last autumn, which represents a major effort on civil defence as a whole. There we go out with 1.3 billion in 2018, 2019 and 2020 to lift our entire civilian preparedness. I also believe that this will mean a great deal to our basic staffing and to our basic prerequisites for achieving this. As I said, we are going to scale up the training points in civil protection. We are now training in more places and have gone from two places to eight places. We need to go up in the number of people who are trained as well. We're tightening up criminal law protection for blue-light abotage. No, it should not be understood that this is about material. It is also about materials, but this is about attacks on people, i.e. police officers, paramedics, fire officers, firefighters and others. It's about attacks on people. It is also about attacks on materials. This could be about attacking cars or trying to sabotage a rescue operation by attacking the equipment. It's also about dogs and horses, actually. If you go after the police's dogs or horses, you can also get hit by this legislation. It's good. It's out for a referral right now, and we'll prepare it further. I imagine that we will be able to deliver a bill in the spring.
