i-ec853962355fdcf4-0	Mr President, I would like to The Parliament will now for the first time hold the election of members of the Board of Governors and State Secretary's transitional restrictions. The name is not fully accessible, and we have in the KU completely informally used the slightly simpler term karensnämnden. The Board is formally set up on 1 July and will have the task of examining matters under the new Act on restrictions on the transition of ministers and secretaries to non-state activities. The purpose of the new law is to protect the State and individuals if a minister of State or a State Secretary has acquired such knowledge or information in his/her mission that, through other future employment, there may be a risk of financial damage to the State, undue advantage to any individual or damage to public confidence in the State. Two different restrictions are to be introduced: restriction of character and restriction of substances. Karens means that the Government or the State Secretary may not commence a new assignment, employment or business activity up to 12 months after the termination of the assignment or employment. Subject restriction means that, within the framework of a new assignment, new employment or new economic activity, the individual may not deal with certain specific issues for a period of up to 12 months after the departure. The new Board, which the House is about to elect, will examine whether a former Minister of State or a former State Secretary will be subject to a restriction on the substance or substance of the matter. It is an important and difficult task that falls to the Board. During the first year of the Board, the Board will develop a practice that is likely to be governing for a long time to come. The Constitutional Committee has therefore taken great care to appoint members to the new Board. The President and Vice-Chairman have been ordinary judges. In addition, the Board shall consist of three members, one of whom shall have been a former Minister of State and one member shall have been a former State Secretary. The Constitutional Committee has, after its preparation, unanimously proposed to the House that the Chair of the Board should elect Chancellor of Justice Anna Skarhed, that the Chamber be elected Vice-Chairman Thomas Rolén and that the House as members should elect the Governor and former Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Österberg, the Council of Commerce and former Secretary of State Tanja Rasmusson and former Chief Justice Ombudsman Elisabet Fura. I therefore call for the unanimous proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be approved. The following letter had been received from the Constitutional Committee:
i-WHgL6KHqRVAt232pwDt9pm	The Constitutional Committee unanimously proposes that the Riksdag elects the Chancellor of Justice Anna Skarhed from 1 July 2018 until a new election to the Board has taken place as Chairman of the Board of Appeal for the examination of the transitional restrictions of the State Secretary and the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Appeal Thomas Rolén and as members elects Governor Sven-Erik-Erik Österberg, Commercial Council Tanja Rasmusson and former Deputy Chairman of the Board of Appeal. Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman Elisabet Fura.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-25	Mr President, I would like to Since 1809, the Parliament's Constitutional Committee has been reviewing for over 200 years that the government and its members have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing government work. KU's investigation is formal. The question is not whether a particular measure is politically desirable or not, but whether the rules in force have been complied with at the time the decision was taken or the measure was taken. Mr President, I would like to inform you that this year, too, the Constitutional Committee has examined a number of complaints against the government and has compiled its observations in a report which is now presented to the House. This review of notifications submitted by Members of Parliament takes place every spring. All notifications received by the end of January will be reviewed this spring, while notifications received later will be reviewed next spring. This year's review has covered 33 notifications, one by KU's standard number. Over the last 20 years, the number of notifications has varied from about 20 to around 40. These 33 notifications have been added together to 29 review cases, of which 26 concern the current government, while 2 concern the former government and 1 concern both governments. This is the last review debate during this parliamentary term, and it may be appropriate to do a summary. We can look back on a term of office that in several ways has been less successful in Swedish politics but which at the same time has been four good years for the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. Over the years, there has been a regular debate on the alleged politicisation of the KU. Some years ago, the disagreements in the committee have been great and have led to a number of positions on which Members were unable to agree. When I became chairman of the KU in 2014 and Björn von Sydow became vice-chairman, it turned out that we had the common ambition to try to bring the KU back to the roots, the legal and constitutional scrutiny. We wanted to get away from what too many associated with the KU – party political overtones and contradictions. It's been over-expectation. Already in the first year, 2015, we managed to achieve broad agreement in committee with only a few reservations. The following year, 2016, we were able to re-present a basically unanimous review report, and the same happened last year. So united the KU hadn't been for the last 20 years. I have gone back ten more years in general, so I can say with some certainty that the KU has not been so united in a spring review for 30 years. During this year's review, I have received many questions on the subject, Will you be able to agree again this year? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The political temperature is high. There are only three months left before the elections, and the KU has had to deal with a very sensitive issue, the government's handling of the safety crisis at the Swedish Transport Agency. It is therefore with great pleasure that I can inform the House that, for the fourth year in a row, we have managed to arrive at a basically unanimous review report. As in previous years, there is a single reservation, but the conclusions reached by the KU thus have very broad support. The average number of reservations for the 20 years before 2015 was just over nine, which undeniably gives a picture of the previous high level of conflict in the committee. I would like to extend warm thanks to the other parties and members of the committee for their cooperation, which has been conducted in an objective, orderly and civilised manner, and I would like in particular to thank Björn von Sydow, whose experience and knowledge have been crucial for achieving this fine result. I would also like to thank the excellent office of the Constitutional Committee, headed by Head of Office Peder Nielsen, Deputy Head of Office Annika Waller and Deputy Head of Office Hans Hegeland. I would also like to mention in particular the rapporteur, Lars Widlund, who has been responsible for the two audits concerning the Transport Agency and who has done excellent work on these two very extensive dossiers. Why is it important for the KU to agree? KU's task is to assess whether the government and individual ministers have complied with the rules governing the government's work. In this way, the KU, through its statements, is gradually building, year by year, an increasingly finer constitutional practice for what is good government work. It is a strength, especially if the parliamentary situation is uncertain, that we can broadly agree on this practice, so that it remains firm no matter who is currently in charge of Sweden. Moreover, at a time when foreign and domestic forces are trying to create uncertainty and fragmentation, it is important that there are counter forces that stand for calm, cohesion and stability. This includes nurturing and safeguarding our democratic institutions. My view is that the members of the KU have, through their actions, nurtured the KU as an institution and given the KU greater strength and credibility. In this context, let me also note that we have also been able to reach broad agreement in the KU on a number of important, substantive issues. These include the prevention of violent extremism, the right to compensation when the State or a municipality violates the European Convention, the comprehensive review of the Freedom of the Press and the Freedom of Expression Act, the need for enhanced civil liability, enhanced protection of the independence of the courts in a troubled time, and the high-profile agreement on the public reward system, the grant to the court and the general flag days. There is a special value in broad agreement on substantive policy issues relating to the rules of the democracy and public institutions, and I am therefore pleased and proud of these various positions as well. In order to leave the substantive policy and develop the reasoning further on the KU's broad consensus on the review of the government, it is good to agree on the texts and even better if we also agree on the interpretation. In the past, it has sometimes been argued that the KU only makes critical comments in cases where the word "criticism" is used in the KU's conclusions. However, the KU has long agreed that critical judgments and remarks about errors and deficiencies can be expressed in different ways, with or without the word criticism. To make this clear, last year the KU chose not to use the word criticism at all. Instead, critical views were expressed in other words. This is how the KU has chosen to do this year. In addition, there was already an ambition in committee last year to try to create an even wider consensus on how to look at the KU's expression and how to interpret the KU's positions. We chose in committee to allow this process to take the form of a debate on a press release. This year too, the committee has produced a press release, which has been divided into two sections. The first is the heading and the Government's administration and the action taken by the ministers. There we list the cases in which we agree that the KU points out deficiencies of various kinds – doing dots, to use the media's expression. The second section has the title and other findings of the review, and it presents some other interesting conclusions. In this way, there is no doubt as to which cases contain observations of shortcomings and which do not. We will come back later in this debate to the various dossiers in more detail, but let me give you a general picture of what is mentioned under the heading. The matter concerning the government's handling of the safety crisis at the Swedish Transport Agency is the largest review that the KU has carried out this term of office and one of the major in recent decades. We will come back closer to the conclusions of the next round of debates, so I note here only that the KU believes that former Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman has broken, that former Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson has broken and that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven bears the ultimate responsibility for the failure of the procedures for the transfer of information within the Government and the Government Office. We also mention the failure of the then Secretary of State of the Minister for Home Affairs. But the KU demands responsibility on a constitutional basis by the Minister of State, and therefore Anders Ygeman is allowed to bear the political responsibility for this. On the other hand, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist does not receive criticism from the KU. The KU has also dealt with a matter concerning the previous government's actions in relation to the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement and information security. The KU notes that there has been no evidence that the previous government was informed or involved in the Swedish Transport Agency's plans to procure its IT operations. On the other hand, the KU considers that the previous government's work on information security issues was generally neglected and that the then government did not do enough to remedy shortcomings. The KU also questions whether the division of responsibilities with regard to information security was sufficiently clear and says that the former IT minister provided inadequate information in a hearing. In addition, the KU points out shortcomings in a further ten cases. The most important point of attention is probably what concerns the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents in the Security Council campaign, where the KU points out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot escape responsibility for the shortcomings in the handling of public documents. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents was also brought up to date in a case concerning the Prime Minister's hearing in the KU last year. The KU says that it is unsatisfactory when the KU receives, at short intervals, conflicting information regarding public access to documents and confidentiality. Regarding the management of the refugee crisis, the KU argues that the government should have acted more proactively when it became clear that the Finnish Immigration Service's July 2015 forecast was overplayed. Following the debate on the Defence Committee's report, the KU underlines the importance of the government coordinating its statements on defence and security policy, in order to ensure that there are no misunderstandings or conflicting interpretations. Blekinge University of Technology is in focus for another matter. The KU considers that the Secretary of State of the Minister for Higher Education has acted inappropriately, something for which the Government is responsible. The Minister for Higher Education has also failed in a case concerning Karolinska Institutet's establishment in Hong Kong. The Government of Morgan Johansson has misreported unemployment statistics on Twitter. In a reply to the KU, the Government Office has provided information on the availability of police officers that is incomplete and thus misleading. Finally, in a case relating to a regulatory letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency regarding assistance compensation, KU says that it is not possible to exclude that wordings of the kind used by the government in the long run risk leading to incorrect assessments in individual cases. These, Mr President, are important observations and remarks on both large and dramatic matters and less, not so much attention paid to matters, and this illustrates one of the things that makes the KU special. In many parliaments, special committees of inquiry can be set up when a scandal occurs, but I would say that the KU is quite unique in that, year after year, in case after case, the KU examines small and large and each year, through its statements, adds new building blocks to its great building of constitutional practice that sets out how good government work is to be done. This creates an increasingly finer web of standards that form the starting point when the KU next approaches an issue similar to what has been tried before. Our state and society are quite different now than when the KU was created in the aftermath of the 1809 coup d'état and the end of the royal autocracy, but it is now, as then, of central importance to ensure that government power is exercised under the laws. By maintaining its historical role but carrying it out on the basis of the conditions prevailing in our modern society, the KU remains a highly relevant and important tool for exercising the parliamentary power of control. In this way, the KU's legacy of 1809 combines with the demands of a new era – demands that the Parliament's Constitutional Committee has been able to live up to this dramatic election year 2018. As chairman of the committee, I am proud of this, and I know that my colleagues in the committee share that pride.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-58	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Chambers! It is the fourth year in a row that we are debating here a review report on which we broadly agree. It is four years of responsibility, four years in which we have jointly been able to strengthen confidence in Parliament's power of control and thereby make a concrete contribution to parliamentary democracy. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President and the other Members for their good and constructive cooperation throughout their term of office. We have also been able to work in good spirit in this election year, with high-profile issues. At a time of increased polarisation, not only in our country but in many places in the democratic world, this is an achievement. Mr President, I would like to The government rules the kingdom. In a troubled world and in the new parliamentary situation we have, this is a more complex task than before. I would like to note that the government we have acquired has gained more experience and has certainly also, in a way, taken note of the constitutional committee's reviews over the past few years. However, allow me also to humbly warn my dear committee colleagues from the opposition to fall for the temptation to reduce the KU's scrutiny to a mathematics that examines the number of cases where we can have views. Nevertheless, it is a qualitative assessment that is taking place. The simplified world of mathematics, which theoretically solves the world's riddles, is therefore not entirely appropriate in this context. As regards the matters of information security and procurement of the Transport Agency's IT activities, where we criticise both the current government and the former alliance government, I refer to the forthcoming speeches by my colleagues Hans Ekström and Laila Naraghi. But let me repeat my reflections from the press conference. After the end of the Cold War, a period began, particularly in Europe but also in other democratic countries, with tangible optimism about the general security situation. At the same time, the speed of technological development with new digital communication routes has been breathtaking. Traditional civil or military espionage has now also gained new arms through cyber-management, both listening and interfering with communications in what is almost a main part of the communication methods nowadays. In this development, it is my view that for a few decades, from around 1990 and regardless of government, there has been some underestimation of the risks and a lack of safety culture in relation to cyber security. The crime was first done through the Russian attacks on Crimea and Ukraine, where cyber attacks were a part but where it also ultimately became traditional military power on the ground that characterized this. It is a war that continues day after day in Ukraine. And it's still being built on with cyber-world attacks and intelligence of relationships through cyber technology. Mr President, I would like to Let me touch on a few further dossiers that are in the same direction. On the issue of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents during the campaign for Sweden to be elected as a Security Council member, a so-called digital workspace was established between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish UN representation. The KU criticises how this has made it difficult for the public and the media to use the Swedish principle of public access to documents. It is not the first time that the KU criticises this type of government, but against the same foreign ministry. Regardless of the minister and the colour of the government, the non-political organisation within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seems to find it difficult to fully relate to the principles of the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act. We know that Sweden has contractual commitments to protect the diplomatic confidentiality of the countries with which we have diplomatic representation. However, it is going too far to simply ignore, in the way that takes place, the rules on the registration of incoming documents and whether or not they contain confidential material and, if so, be able to be extradited. It is frustrating for us in our committee. There is therefore reason to raise your eyes and ask: How does this legislation actually work in the modern digital society? I hope that this can be a task for future constitutional committees and Parliament to take on. The principles of our dear old Freedom of the Press Regulation and its more modern cousin the Freedom of Expression Constitution should be retained, but is it reasonable that they should be organised, including the responsibility of an individual minister, in the way that is now the case? We welcome the review initiated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but we believe that we need to go deeper into this issue. Let me also take this opportunity to note that we have re-examined the Security Council campaign in substance. Was there anything that was promised that was contrary to Sweden's foreign policy in order to enlist the support of states and nations in the UN? Were there elements of corruptive activity? Again, we have gone through this. Apparently, as we have seen and been able to judge, we have found that this campaign has been carried out by decent means. Mr President, I would like to I have been on two counts, and that is how the government has dealt with the Defence Committee's report Resistance that was presented the days before Christmas. So I have not been involved in the preparation of the matter. However, I would like to make one comment in this connection. We can note that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' points of order that applied to the government were developed in accordance with the rules that exist. We have also found that the representatives of the Swedish Government have differed in part when they have talked about what the Defence Committee has said. There must be some room for adjustment and nuancement of foreign policy statements depending on the situation and context. I note that we have found that none of the statements, which differ somewhat from one State to another, can mean a new political line. At the same time, Mr President, it is unfortunate that certain statements have clearly been perceived as contradictory. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister spoke in a way that was reported to the Constitutional Committee when he said that those who had been responsible for an attack on the synagogue in Gothenburg should be severely punished. A Minister of State shall not speak in such a way as to jeopardise an ongoing judicial process or put the independence of the courts at risk. At the same time, however, a minister, like all other citizens, must be allowed to exercise his freedom of expression and to express his hatred of threats, violence and terror, not least if it is racist or anti-Semitic. There are charges against three people, but there is still no judgment. But on this matter, Mr President, I have thought and thought of the following. What if there had been a German chancellor who had once during the fateful period before January 1933, when Hitler became Chancellor of the Reich, had said that one expected severe punishment if one attacked synagogues in Germany. What if it could have played a role?
i-ec853962355fdcf4-75	Mr President, I would like to With today's debate, the KU concludes its review work for this term of office. Let me therefore begin by thanking all my colleagues from the other parties for the work that the committee has done during this parliamentary term. Although we come from eight different parties, we have been able to agree both across the bloc and, of course, across party boundaries. I would also like to extend my sincere thanks to our fantastic office. During the four years that I have been allowed to sit in the Swedish Parliament and in the Constitutional Committee, I have had the honour to experience your great know-how and expertise. Without your help, our work would not have been possible. To me, having been allowed to sit on this committee with all of you, good and hardworking colleagues, has been an honour and at the same time a period of long learning. Now, however, this term of office is almost over, and we are moving towards an incredibly exciting election campaign. It is an electoral movement that is likely to focus on our political differences. Finding these dividing lines is perhaps what we politicians are very good at. We are doing this, of course, to show the voters what separates us parties. In KU's review work, however, we do the opposite. When, in my opinion, others all too often try to polarise and stigmatise, we spend many hours of work and negotiations on reaching consensus. We do it because the KU's work needs it. We do this in order for confidence in the KU to need it and for there to be clear and understandable rules in the future that will help the government and its minister to do the right thing. If, however, you make a mistake, we will tell you! My colleague Tuve Skånberg usually says that all ministers should have a sign on their desk with the text That is a piece of advice I can agree with. If I get the confidence to represent my party in this committee also in the next parliamentary term, my ambition will be to continue to strive for unity and consensus rather than conflict. If the voters out there now listen to this, they may find it strange that a politician prefers negotiations where everyone reaches consensus at the end of the day and can come to an agreement instead of clarifying political differences. Many may ask why we should have different parties if everyone still comes to the same conclusions, and that is of course a relevant question. Let me therefore reassure you all by ensuring that the political differences will, of course, always be there. They will also, for the most part, be made visible through the political debate. However, it is a matter of politics – a matter of substance policy. There we can, and there we will, continue to show the voters what is different and what different arguments we have. This is also what we do in the Constitutional Committee when it comes to the many political issues we are debating. These are heavy political issues: questions about our constitutions, our rights and freedoms, the right to privacy and the defence of our democracy. Although we are all fighting to defend all of this, of course we are doing so in a slightly different way, but we are, after all, defenders of these values. Mr President, I would like to But precisely as regards the scrutiny – the review of the government and the review of the ministers – we all benefit from this. At the time, we will benefit by showing unity and not conflict. At the time, we will benefit from doing what you do outside the KU may not always be very good at. We benefit from talking, we benefit from negotiating, and we benefit from cooperating between all eight parties. We and the committee benefit from it. The government benefits from it. Democracy benefits from it. This year and this parliamentary term have, in my view, been a step forward for the committee and our extensive review work. Although we have reached close to full compliance, our conclusions have become clear. Of course, getting criticism of the KU is never trivial, but getting criticism from an entirely united committee is considerably heavier. The same applies, of course, to cases where the committee is freed. Mr President, I would like to Although later in the day we will deal with the various dossiers in more detail, I cannot leave the speaker's seat today without having mentioned anything overall about the biggest review dossier of the spring. The KU has dealt with 33 complaints from Members of Parliament, and these have concerned a wide range of different areas. Despite many interesting cases, most people will still remember our review of the government's actions regarding the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement most. This issue is probably also the subject that will be debated, or at least discussed, most today. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, my colleague Fredrik Eriksson will present the position of the committee and our position in a moment. Nevertheless, let me say that what has now been discovered is, and will go down in history as, one of our greatest examples of information failure. Mr President, I would like to The alarm bells of society should have been ringing. The departments which would have acted, the officials who would have listened and the ministers who would have understood did not do so. They didn't understand, they didn't listen and they didn't tell me. When a Swedish security crisis was a fact, authorities fell, and the government fell. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven bears ultimate responsibility for this. Unfortunately, there are few heroes in this tragic accident, but at least there is one. There is one person who dared to tell – a person who understood the seriousness of all of this. Annette Olofsson, internal auditor at Transportstyrelsen– I don't know if you're listening to this debate, but I'm now addressing you directly. What you dared to do is worth remembering. Your actions are in many ways an example. Without the courage and stubbornness you have shown, it is not certain that all of this had come to light at the stage that it did now. Our President usually says that the KU should not be happy to do so with counterfactual history writing, and that is an opinion that I share. Nevertheless, Mr President, I would like to conclude this speech by thanking you, Annette Olofsson, on behalf of the committee. Thank you for understanding, and thank you for telling me! Your actions and courage are an example. For this, you deserve all the credit.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-91	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the KU20 Review Report. It is an unusually thick report and document, based on the examination of various notifications carried out by the KU during the spring. The audit reports come from individual members. So they are the ones who have to ask the KU to review. We do a review based on each notification, although it is different how much work is spent on each individual notification. The Members of Parliament who have notified come this time from all the parliamentary parties except my own. There are a total of 33 notifications, including 19 notifications from moderate members of parliament. Other parties in the Riksdag have submitted between zero and three notifications. Unusually many complaints against the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs have been submitted during the year. This year's review has been dominated by the very extensive work we have done to review the Swedish Transport Agency and how it could be that a procurement was carried out in a way that broke the law and risked national security. It has been interesting to follow this review, and sometimes I have felt more like a part of an interesting puzzle detective than a part of everyday KU. Bit by bit we have made it clear that the problems hardly started with the Director-General signing the so-called deviation from the law. Instead, we have had the impression that under the previous government the Swedish Government was not aware of the extent to which the security work was lagging behind. In such a situation, a procurement started in the wrong way and broke down by having to choose between what she certainly saw as two very bad paths. She chose one of the roads, but the question is how much trouble she would have had if she had chosen the other bad road. Of course, we have not made that clear. However, we have noted that once the major problems were known, it would be a long time before the Minister for Infrastructure and the Prime Minister were informed, something we in the KU point to as shortcomings. I will go further on this issue in the next round of debate, which concerns the Transport Agency in particular. During the term of office, the KU has developed its work, and we have submitted largely unanimous reports every year during this term of office. This is good; it provides support and development not only for the government but also for how the Riksdag can work together with the government. Here I would like to draw particular attention to some more fundamental issues throughout the term of office that have been about developing work on European issues. The Parliament has carried out its own investigation here. The Swedish Parliament has also conducted an investigation regarding the participation of ministers in the KU hearings. Here, too, we have clarified the new regulatory framework: Nowadays, we expect from the KU and from the Riksdag that the Prime Minister will demand his ministers a written consent to participate in the KU hearings even after they have ended as ministers. This also applies to the issue of announcements, where in this year's review we have some notifications that I intend to return to in the debate under chapter 1. However, I would like to draw attention to how well I feel that we from the KU can contribute to the rules of the game and improved practices in the work between the parliament and the government. During the parliamentary term, a question concerning announcements has been about negative announcements, that is, when the Riksdag tells the government not to do anything. There we from the KU have made very careful statements. However, they have had an effect, and we are now seeing austerity in Parliament's work. In this year's review, we look at the issue of time periods for announcements. It should be possible for the Government to implement what the Riksdag has decided. Finally, Mr President, I suspect that today's debate will be marked by a great deal of appreciation. I will save most of my credit for the last debate today, but I would like to thank Andreas Norlén and Björn von Sydow in particular. They have certainly contributed to very good, and sometimes very long, discussions. These discussions have laid the foundations for a good consensus on many of these issues, which are extremely important for Parliament and for the government.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-105	Mr President, I would like to The review of the government, which ends with today's debate, began as early as August last year; it was then that it emerged that the safety data in the car register and the driving licence register of the Swedish Transport Agency had been sent to various countries in Eastern Europe for data processing. This was done without securing the protection of confidential information in the registers. As I said, we have had extensive work in the KU with this year's review; it started in August. I would particularly like to thank the President of the KU, Andreas Norlén, and Vice-President Björn von Sydow, as well as the KU's Office, for the very extensive and well-carried out work they have carried out on the audit. In my introduction, however, I will focus mainly on the review that we have carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency and the views that the KU has there. We have taken in the Constitutional Committee a very extensive written material and conducted a large number of hearings in order to assess how the Government and its Minister have been involved in what the Prime Minister called the scandal at the Transport Agency. It is a scandal that the Constitutional Committee has come up with could have been stopped, or in any case limited, if Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman and his then State Secretary Ann Linde had acted when they received information from the Security Service. In addition, Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson and Prime Minister Löfven would have been informed if the information routes had worked. When the information channels did not work, they could not act in the way that would have been reasonable. When the information routes did not work, what was a scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency was also a scandal for the government. This scandal led to the resignation of two ministers and one State Secretary: Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman, Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson and the Prime Minister's own Secretary of State Emma Lennartsson. Even the former Secretary of State Erik Bromander, who was responsible to the Swedish Transport Agency, had certainly been forced to resign if he had not already, for other reasons – because of his private travel – had had to leave his post as State Secretary. He was deeply involved in contacts with the Director-General of the Swedish Transport Agency. In the KU, we fully agree on the conclusions regarding the review of the Transport Board scandal. The current government is responsible for not stopping or rapidly withdrawing the computer drive that had been deployed to Eastern European countries to be managed by IBM staff in these countries. We have therefore noted that it is the Prime Minister who has the ultimate responsibility for the fact that important information did not go further. As regards Mr Reinfeldt's dealings with matters relating to this outsourcing of IT operations, I will come back to you in the next debate. However, I am going to say something about this right now, because in this part of the Constitutional Committee I have had divergent views. The Government of Anna-Karin Anna-Karin was called to a hearing in KU. The KU fully agrees that Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt did not commit any errors during her time as Minister of Information Technology, which is related to the events at the Swedish Transport Agency. The criticism she has received concerns a detailed question relating to her reply in the hearing itself. The majority of the KU believes that she should have been clearer about her responsibilities. However, I think it is important that we understand that she was called to the hearing to talk about something else and had prepared for it. In addition, Anna-Karin-Karin Hatt came in after the hearing with an addition to what was in force under her so-called § 5 appointment. I believe that the KU in this part should have accepted this addition as sufficient explanation. Overall, there are many – about a third – of the KU cases reported by MPs that have led to some form of criticism. I should like to mention Foreign Minister Wallström, who was criticised both for repeated shortcomings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' record of documents relating to the Security Council campaign and for the ambiguities created about Sweden's security policy assessments. After all, it was when the Defence Committee submitted an interim report that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs went out with information to its embassies and in this way created ambiguities. I would like to come back deeper on a number of issues later.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-119	Mr President, I would like to PerPer-Ingvar Johnsson came into question about Anders Ygeman's actions. I cannot see that the committee's position provides the basis for the statement by Per-Ingvar Johnsson here. On p. 419 we can find a description of the fact that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Industry were not sufficiently coordinated in dealing with issues. It says that there was a lot of information in these departments that showed the seriousness of the situation. But it is only possible to find out that the responsibilities of the other ministries and ministers were thus primarily to deal with the consequences in their respective areas after information was communicated to them. ..................................................... It is difficult to find in the committee's position the basis for the statement that Per-Ingvar Johnsson has just made, and I would ask him to clarify himself.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-122	Mr President, I would like to As early as September 2015, the Government received information through Säpo that an investigation had been initiated regarding the Swedish Transport Agency due to the fact that data had been sent out. It was the safety manager of the Swedish Transport Agency who had made sure that Säpo was given the information. What was serious was that one did not react. The Prime Minister had introduced new contacts with regard to the responsibility for cyber security; it had previously been with the Ministry of Defence but transferred to the Minister for Home Affairs. In this way Anders Ygeman had a lot of clear responsibility for the information security tasks that came in and that the issue was resolved, but it was going to be a very long time before anything happened. This is of course serious, and for this Anders Ygeman has received clear criticism in KU's opinion.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-124	Mr President, I would like to What the committee has been working on is criticism of the information channels within the Government Office. Moreover, it has not been shown that the handling of these issues in the Ministry of Justice has been of any importance in this context. We have received clarifications from the relevant authorities in several ways – and the act of secrecy prevents me from going into details. There was never any demand for action from the government. It was considered perfectly possible to deal with everything at the level of government with sufficient precision and speed. It was about Säpo, it was about Transportstyrelsen themselves after they got on the track and it was about the rest. There is therefore no reason to claim that Minister Ygeman or anyone else could have intervened in order to shorten risk management and minimisation of the relevant documents. I would ask Per-Ingvar Johnsson to revise his statement before the House, in connection with Per-Ingvar Johnsson's experience in signing the committee's report. We cannot have divergences – at least in such a case, complicated by the fact that the committee has become aware of information that is classified and where there is no way for us to go into statements. I therefore ask Per-Ingvar Johnsson to fully endorse the committee's report, Mr President.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-127	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I fully support the report of the Constitutional Committee. What I have also mentioned is that the Home Secretary at the time should have taken the initiative and moved on. The Prime Minister has also criticised Ygeman for not receiving the information he should have received. In this way one can say that the Prime Minister has confirmed what I am saying, namely that Ygeman should have passed on the information he had received. That's my vision.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-128	Mr President, I would like to So we finished with this year's major review report, which is unusually large and thick. The previous and current government's action in relation to the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement is one of the really big cases. It has already begun to be debated, but we will come back to it in the next debate. Otherwise, there are some themes in this report that tend to appear every year and do so now. I'm going to comment on some of them. The government's consultation with the Riksdag prior to various forms of EU meetings is one such area. These are various summits and meetings of various Councils of Ministers, etc. We have not seen that the government has acted wrong, but we can – as we usually do – conclude that the government could have had further contacts with the Riksdag. The government had not been prevented from calling for consultation. The lack of information, or the feeling of lack of information, tends to create mistrust. It is consistently the case that more information prevents misunderstandings, and it comes up in several of this year's cases. It is not only linked to the EU Council, but it is common to get into the situation that you think you know too little. The handling of documents is also something that recurs every year. Shortcomings in the record keeping of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have been up here before, and we point out this year as well. At the present and the previous government there have been problems with the management of the register at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. There are also in some way quite understandable reasons why it is not simply – in general there are more and more documents and more and more information. But how do you get a system that makes it possible to find things? We have moved away from the fact that one piece of paper is sent by mail from one authority to another. It is quite manageable: there will be a document, it can be stamped on it and it can be registered. Now much more is sent via the IT communications ystem we have, and we use e-mail. How much should be recorded and saved in all contexts? How should it be registered? These are areas that the Government Office is working on and will continue to work with. It's important, but it's also very difficult. The more we save, the harder it is also to find what we actually think is important. At the same time, we have cases where we cannot get full clarity because there is no documentation at all. There are, for example, recurring problems in terms of government dialogues and documentation of it. We have had that up many times, and it has often been the Ministry of Industry that has been a problem area. Notifications about announcements and that the government is not sufficiently sensitive to the Riksdag are also a recurring theme. Parliament wants the government to do what is requested quickly – sometimes too quickly. It is also the case that at the same time the Riksdag expects the Government to do a proper preparation work. It's a little bit like the government's doing the wrong thing, no matter what it does. However, we in the KU note that the government has acted reasonably quickly, although we also say that it would have been good if the Riksdag had been informed of the delay in the time frame that the Riksdag had set. This information could have been provided before the deadline expired. We therefore believe here too that more information reduces the risk of mistrust and misunderstanding. Then, of course, there are issues where misunderstandings and misconceptions can probably be part of the political game and a way of getting the debate up on a particular issue. For example, the statements on the security situation and the defence policy line – I am not sure that they wanted to understand. It can be perceived as perhaps there was a certain desire to misunderstand a little there. In several places, the committee also points out that the answers to our questions need to be complete and correct, and this also applies in hearings. This is also a recurring theme, which I find surprising. It should be self-evident that the Government Office and previous ministers respond properly to questions from the KU, but not. Sometimes we also have to ask questions over and over again to get answers – and sometimes we still stand there and don't really know. It creates mistrust, I can say. This report shows that the views of the KU are quite long. We say something about virtually all matters. I really think it is a good thing, because the earlier brief comments, with the wording that the committee has nothing to say, were really incomprehensible. We tended to have little meaning after a long piece of material describing the matter: the committee has nothing to add to the matter. It was actually hard to understand. Now it's more like what we've been thinking. I believe that this is the result of the fact that during this term of office the KU has tried to reach agreement on the review work. Then there will be a bit more of it on the one hand and on the other hand in our statements. And that is exactly how it is in the vast majority of cases. There are few things that are absolutely certain only in one way. Instead, it's actually a bit like this and a bit like that and that you can imagine that it's a bit like that too– that's how it is in most of the questions. One might think that this is a bit too smooth and grey, but I think it is good and increases the opportunity for the KU's work to have positive effects on the work of the government and the ministers, on government control and on relations with the Riksdag. Then, of course, we are putting different weight on different issues, and that will certainly be evident in the further debate.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-139	Mr President, I would like to As previous speakers have already pointed out, this year's review has also been in the KU measure of something in horse-race – so to the point that we have apparently now actually broken the limit of what the parliamentary printing works are capable of dealing with. During the debate on the review report last spring, I remember saying good-bye with a wish that we would have a restful summer and saying, among other things, that summer could not be worse than the previous one – I had the National Audit Office in mind – but it could, and I will not challenge fate with such a farewell this year. It is, in principle, a united committee that is submitting the report today. It is something that I must admit that I had some doubts about whether we could achieve with election years and everything that we have before us. However, despite this and despite the many and sensitive matters that we had to investigate, we actually succeeded, and then we still had a historically large and complex review like that of the Transport Agency, which we will debate more closely here afterwards and which basically concerned something as serious as national security. It is not because we are afraid of conflict or because we are benevolently personified that we have been able to agree, but because together, as has already become clear, we feel a joint and heavy responsibility for the role of the Constitutional Committee as the one who has to review the government and that that scrutiny must work regardless of whether our various parties are in government or in opposition. It is perhaps our, or at least mine, way of showing respect for our institutions, for 200 years of democracy and for colleagues and their complaints. We are elected MPs and politicians, but if the KU is to function in the way we want it to work, that is, as something other than a political bat, we need to be as unpolitical and factual as it ever can be. It is not easy to always understand what the KU means. We tend to use a very moderate language, and that is why it is very valuable that this year we were also able to agree on a press release to provide a structure and an interpretation framework for how to read the KU report and which ministers are being made aware of shortcomings in their actions and why. The chairman of the committee gave an excellent reading instruction in his speech, in which he also stressed the importance of not only agreeing with the letters but also with the content of the idea. We will come back later in this debate to the various dossiers in more detail, so I will not go into them here. I would like to thank colleagues and the office who always help and are ready with their knowledge. There will be a rather unpolitical debate here today, but I hope that we will all meet at the barricades in the election movement around Sweden to discuss the various political solutions that we have, because we are basically full-blood politicians. All electoral movements are important, and I do not want to create a fateful atmosphere here, but it seems to me that this election movement will be even more important than ever. We in the Liberals and other parties who think that democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law, equality, equality and openness are important have a huge and important work ahead of us – every day until the entire Swedish people, minorities or not, go to the polls on 9 September. I look forward to a continued debate.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-148	Mr President, I would like to This is the last debate of the Constitutional Committee for this parliamentary term. It crowns four years of work that has gone far beyond the norm in a way that we might not have wanted but as it has been. It also crowns my own work for a total of 23 years in the Riksdag. In 1991 I was elected for the first time, and I have been on the Constitutional Committee for three terms of office – the first as a working alternate and then as a member. It has become harder and harder the longer I have sat there, and it has also become more successful and successful. We have had to deal with very difficult issues during the time I can review. Two examples are the tsunami and the National Audit Office, when three out of three national auditors had to resign. Starting in the middle of the summer, the KU managed to find a good solution to this. In addition, the news about the Transport Agency and the IT breakdown that had taken place there that started almost a year ago, in early July. This allowed KU to be called up after a KU notification from more than one party, and we started our work with the Swedish Transport Agency already in August. Now we have the result of ten months' work. It is a total of 1 823 pages and is a work that only when it comes to hearings is 480 pages. The annexes are not even included, because they were not spaced within the limits of what can be printed up. Everyone then understands that it has been very time consuming. The total length of our meetings may be six times the length of another committee's meetings. Is it worth all this work? Yes, it's not only worth it, it's necessary. The KU has shown a way forward in a very difficult parliamentary situation, with pressure from opportunist and populist forces in our own country and from foreign power, by being in the most essential of its position. This makes it very important when the KU agrees. It is a way of nurturing democracy and our democratic institutions where the KU has become one of the most important – a forum for dialogue where issues are not politicised. At least we're doing our very best not to do it. There are 1,600 rooms in this house, as I have been told. There is plenty of room where the adult conversation can take place and where we can make joint and united positions for the best for our country. Reviewing the government is not the only thing we do, although it is most of the time. Only this spring we have had 50 reports, but what the KU is known for, and what the KU is for which, quite rightly, it is precisely that it – indisputably on the basis of the rule of law that exists for the government – reviews the ministers. Of course, what more than anything else has overshadowed our work has been the Swedish Transport Agency. We have allocated a later part of the debate, which will begin shortly, to this dossier. I won't anticipate it. I would like to thank the President of the KU, Andreas Norlén, for four extremely important years of work. And I would like to thank the Vice-President, Björn von Sydow. I would also like to thank the government parties. For you have chewed ten dots or criticism points without protesting, and you have done it well. I hope that future governments can do just as well. I would also like to thank the Members, each without mentioning us by name – new and older. This wouldn't have been possible if we hadn't all worked together. If it has broken somewhere, there is the possibility of repairing it, including in the rest of this debate. I would like to thank the staff of the Office. It's an amazing job they're doing. If we meet six times more than a normal committee does, we can imagine that they also have to work six times more for the same salary. They have done it with tremendous skill, frenzy and have never clicked. This is not new in itself for this term of office. They usually do it that way. Mr President, I would like to With this, we crown over 200 years' work within the KU with what I believe is the most important thing we can do to be equipped for the future and the pressures that may come.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-160	Mr President, I would like to The results of KU's review clearly show that the current government has committed several errors in handling the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement. It is not least that the government has failed to pass important information on to the ministries and ministers who should have been informed. The fact that the information is about national security makes the lack of action particularly serious. First of all, the Prime Minister, as Head of Government and Head of the Government Office, has the ultimate responsibility for the fact that the handling of this important information has not worked. Stefan Löfven was responsible for the procedures to ensure that important information reaches the right department and the right people in serious situations. Here I would like to return to the criticism of the former Minister for the Interior, Anders Ygeman. He took responsibility for his lack of action by resigning last summer. If he did so on his own initiative or because the Prime Minister asked him to resign, it must not have been made quite clear. In any case, however, he asked to resign in connection with the criticism made against the government regarding the Swedish Transport Agency. Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman is, as I see it, the one most criticized by the Constitutional Committee. Although he and his then State Secretary Ann Linde were informed early on about what happened at the Swedish Transport Agency, they did not pass the information on to the Minister for Infrastructure, who was responsible for the Swedish Transport Agency, or to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Löfven boasted in March 2015, in the Government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of IT security issues, for creating a new and better organisation for information security than he had previously had within the government. He did so by transferring responsibility for MSB, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, and responsibility for IT security within the authorities from the Minister for Defence to the Minister for Home Affairs. Now, a year later, we know how Ygeman did it here or – as it did – unfortunately did not manage to pass on the task in the new organization created by the Prime Minister. At the time, the Minister for Infrastructure, Anna Johansson, receives criticism that she, too, has failed to inform the Prime Minister. In her case, she did not receive information from her own Secretary of State, Erik Bromander, who was very well informed and familiar with what happened at the Swedish Transport Agency regarding the outsourcing of the data. In conclusion, we can note that the Swedish Transport Agency's decision to outsource the IT business was taken in 2015, when the current government was in power. This is also reflected in the fact that the KU criticises Stefan Löfven and two of his ministers. As regards the review of the previous government's responsibilities, nothing has emerged to show that it was informed or involved in the Transport Agency's plans to outsource its IT operations. That is an important conclusion that I see. In this review, however, the former Minister of Information and Energy, Anna-Karin-Karin Hatt, receives criticism for what she did not say in the Constitutional Committee's hearing regarding her so-called § 5 appointment. In this respect, I think it is more important to note that Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt, as Minister of State, was actively involved in improving society's information security. We have noted this through her participation at, among other things, a conference organised by MSB. It was more important than her not remembering that the word information security was in her assignment almost eight years after her assignment. But when she performed her ministry, she remembered it. And I think that's much more important. Part of the fact that Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt didn't remember it was also that she wasn't called to answer questions about it. It would be about the outsourcing notifications, if used in the previous government. It had not said that the Swedish Transport Agency would outsource this business. The previous government was therefore not involved in this. It has been noted in the report that Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt was not the minister responsible for the activities of the Swedish Transport Agency or the information security of this authority under the previous government. She was also not responsible for how the work on information security was organised in the previous government. Anna-Karin-Karin Hatt made it clear at the hearing that she had overall responsibility within the government for coordinating IT issues. But she did not mention information security. That, of course, should have come to light. However, I believe that the written answer she gave to the committee after the hearing that she had had that appointment clarified that question. We in the Constitutional Committee usually give our office and our rapporteurs good credit. However, I would like to mention that I have had some critical comments regarding the letter drawn up by the Registry concerning Anna-Karin Hatt's appointment. But certainly the office has done a tremendous amount of work on the question of the Swedish Transport Agency. It has been a huge work effort that has been an important basis for the work of the Constitutional Committee.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-173	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my introduction, the matter concerning the government's handling of the safety crisis at the Transport Agency is the biggest review carried out by the KU during this term of office and one of the larger in recent decades. The review began as early as August last year and has meant that the KU collected a large amount of written material and held hearings with over a dozen people. A common year, the KU holds perhaps 8 - 10 hearings in total. This year it was almost 20, because we also had hearings on some other matters. As has been said, KU's report, including its annexes, is record-high – over 1,800 pages – most of which are material related to the Transport Board case. The security crisis was a very serious incident that led to sensitive information being handled in violation of Swedish law, which in turn may have led to serious damage. However, it is not KU's task to review the Swedish Transport Agency or to assess which but may have arisen. The KU has reviewed how the government has acted. Since the first media reporting on the scandal, discussions on the role of the government have mainly focused on information management within the government and the Government Office. The government governs the kingdom and has a responsibility to handle and to have the ability to handle crises of various kinds. In order for crisis management to work, it is essential that key personnel receive accurate and relevant information quickly. The KU notes that the review in this case raises questions about the provision of information within the Government Office regarding matters of national security significance. These are both contacts between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry, and also contacts with other parts of the Government Office. The review also raises questions about information within the ministries to the ministers and between the ministers including the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Enterprise have not been sufficiently coordinated. Information was relatively early in both departments. Although each information alone provided only a limited picture, at the end of 2015, there was overall information showing the seriousness of the situation, the nature of the problems and the need for urgent action at the Transport Agency in particular. The committee notes that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry has taken too much action individually, which has gone over the possibility of jointly getting a better picture of the situation and, on the basis of it, consider what could be done further to deal with the situation. Only in December 2016 did the Council of State Committee receive information. More than a year had passed since the Ministry of Justice and later the Ministry of Industry had been informed that outsourcing involved risks of national security. It then took a few more weeks for the Prime Minister to get the information. The committee takes seriously the fact that it took such a long time before the Prime Minister was reached by the information. One issue that has been discussed, Mr President, is whether it played a practical role in the failure to coordinate and disseminate information within the government. I note that the examination shows that no authority requested any action from the Government. However, the KU makes no assessment of the practical effects, i.e. whether something would have been different on the ground, in the measures taken by the authorities to deal with the situation, if, for example, the coordination within the government had been better or if the Prime Minister had been informed a year earlier. My personal view is that it is difficult with counterfactual history writing, i.e. to try to assess what had happened in the past if any particular condition had been different from it actually was. One might ask whether the Swedish Transport Agency could have brought all the systems back to Sweden more quickly if the press had been harder from the Government Office or Government. It may be asked whether any other action had been taken earlier or otherwise if the Prime Minister was told at the beginning of 2016. These are questions to which we will never get an answer, and it is very difficult to assess afterwards. The KU therefore confines itself in its position to questions concerning the dissemination of information within the Government Office. From my point of view, it is bad enough that the coordination failed and that the transfer of information did not work the way it was intended. In this context, the committee notes that the search previously announced by the Prime Minister for clarity on the course of events has not yet been presented in aggregate form. What is referred to in the brief commentary in the committee report is what the Prime Minister said at the end of July and the beginning of August. There is a written statement from the Prime Minister on the Government's website from 3 August 2017. The Prime Minister says there:.As soon as the search is completed, the Government will report on what measures need to be taken. ..................................................... It is quite clear to me that this statement created expectations that there would be systematic work and that some form of report would be presented when the screening was completed. In order to move to the KU's assessment of the responsibility of the various ministers of government, the KU as a starting point has been the principle of responsibility, which means that each department and minister is responsible for their areas even in the event of a crisis. In this case, responsibility for the Transport Agency was with the Ministry of Industry. Responsibility for the authority that acted against the Swedish Transport Agency, i.e. Säpo, was with the Ministry of Justice and the Minister for the Interior. The responsibility of the other ministries and ministers was therefore primarily to deal with the consequences in their respective areas after information had been communicated to them. The then Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman was relatively early informed by his department about this. However, as noted, the Ministry of Justice, and not least the Secretary of State of the Minister for the Interior, failed to ensure that the other departments concerned and the Council of State Committee were informed. The committee also notes that Anders Ygeman did not discuss the event with either the Prime Minister or the Minister for Infrastructure personally throughout the period in question. It seems obvious to the committee that events of this serious kind should be addressed directly with the Prime Minister and other relevant ministers. Regarding the then Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson, she only received information about this in January 2017, despite the fact that the information was available early in her department. The committee states that it is remarkable that an issue of this kind has not been raised between the Government and her then State Secretary. Responsibility for the inadequate relationship between them rests with Anna Johansson. As Minister of State, Anna Johansson was also responsible for the inadequate contacts between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Justice and for the Ministry of Economic Affairs not communicating information to the Council of State Committee. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist had to deal with the consequences of what happened for the Swedish Armed Forces. The committee believes that he acted reasonably in the situation that arose. The committee can also note that Peter Hultqvist, when he received information, had reason to assume that the Council of State Committee had also received the information. At the same time, the principle of responsibility, the committee continues, must not mean that all information remains within the respective departments. The principle cannot, in the Committee's view, mean that, in any situation, a minister can assume that information has been transmitted in other parts of the Government Office in the manner in which it is intended. If the principle had not been strictly followed in this case, the Council of State Committee would have been able to be reached by the information if it occurred earlier. As Head of Government and Head of the Government Office, the Prime Minister has overall responsibility for the work of the Government and the Government Office. This means that he is responsible, among other things, for the existence and functioning of information transfer procedures. The committee notes that the application of the procedures in this case has failed. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven bears the ultimate responsibility for the fact that the procedures have not worked. My hope, Mr President, is that the KU, through its review, has helped to answer a number of legitimate questions from the Swedish people regarding the government's handling of the safety crisis that arose at the Swedish Transport Agency. Several notifications have also concerned the previous government's actions in connection with the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement. According to KU, there has been no evidence showing that the previous government was informed or involved in the Swedish Transport Agency's plans to procure an external supplier of its IT operations. The Government or the Government Office has also received no information that the Swedish Transport Agency had not conducted a safety analysis until 2014. On the other hand, as regards information security on a more general level, the KU notes that the work was lagging behind during the period under review and that the then government did not do enough to remedy the shortcomings identified. The KU also considers that there is reason to question whether the accountability of information security issues within the then government was sufficiently clear. With unclear responsibilities, there was a risk that the problems did not receive the necessary attention in the government work and that the necessary measures therefore did not exist. Mr President, I would like to With this, the KU leaves the various cases that arose as a result of the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement and, as I mentioned in my introduction, I am pleased with the broad consensus behind the KU's assessments.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-196	Mr President, I would like to The review report, which I hold in my hands, is a work that has cost many millions of taxpayers' money. Then you have to think about whether it's worth the money. I would like to say that this is very much worth. It is about the very legitimacy of how government power is exercised and how the parliament manages its role of controlling the government's work. At a time when liberal democracy is being called into question, it is very important that that scrutiny works very well, so that it cannot be called into question. The biggest review this year by the Constitutional Committee is one of the largest ever made, namely the review of the Transport Agency's outsourcing of IT operations. When the scandal started last summer, the KU immediately began its investigation, and it has thus been going on almost the entire parliamentary year. The scandal itself is really quite simple. A government agency founded in 2009 has had a lack of security culture and a lack of understanding of information on national security. A Director-General has deliberately decided to break the law – really something very enormous. But it is not the role of the KU to examine the scandal itself. It is necessary for us to know what has happened in order to understand our role, namely to examine the role of the previous government and the current government in the pre-history of this scandal and its handling. Björn von Sydow spoke earlier about what we thought after 1989 was the eternal peace. Liberal democracy was seemingly victorious throughout the world. Every year, more and more countries became democratic, and it felt very stable in the old democratic countries. This feeling led to a relaxation of security awareness across various institutions in society. I think it is important to have the historical context in order to understand how the laxity with information security that has existed could arise. However, there were warning signs. For example, in 2007 and 2011, the Swedish National Audit Office pointed out shortcomings in the safety culture in the authorities. It has to be said, however, that the then government did not take those signals seriously enough. The lack of a safety culture also contributed to unclear responsibilities in the previous government. It is clear that this has played a role in the past that such a scandal has occurred. In the investigation of this, we have also found that former Minister Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt's report for KU has created confusion and made KU's work more difficult. It is very serious and cannot be accepted by the Constitutional Committee. The current government has been responsible for dealing with the scandal. We have been able to note that the authorities concerned, such as Säpo and the defence, have not demanded or expected any action from the government to limit the damage caused by the incident. These organisations have also taken decisive action to limit the damage themselves. On the other hand, we have been able to note a very worrying lack of information on how the distribution of information between the departments and from the various departments to the Council of State Committee has taken place. In this case, we have not been able to establish that it has caused any damage. We don't know anything about that. As Andreas Norlén talks about, one should not engage in counterfactual history writing, or as my grandfather said: If if were the boned hare shot with a pitchfork. It's hard to speculate about that. However, it can be said that this could have had serious effects in another case, and that is serious enough. Here Anders Ygeman and Anna Johansson bear responsibility for the management in their respective departments. However, we have seen that Peter Hultqvist has dealt with this in a reasonable manner. It also makes the censure motion against him from the Moderates and Christian Democrats seem a little overblown afterwards. We can also note that we have not been able to see any real shortcomings in the procedures themselves regarding the information. On the other hand, the application of the procedures has failed. It is then the case that the ultimately responsible Prime Minister is responsible for it, even if he has not been involved or received information himself. The system works so that the Prime Minister bears ultimate responsibility. To sum up, in a few points:
i-ec853962355fdcf4-205	Mr President, I would like to KU has now delivered its basically unanimous position on what we have had to review about the IT scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency. The position has come to the fore as a final product of ten months' in-depth examination, with countless written documents, a dozen or so hearings and, not least, many and long discussions within the committee. The written position is what we, for the most part, have been able to agree on. But does that mean that this is all there is to say about the breakdown of the agency and not least within the Government Office? Certainly not, Mr President. Let it be said that it is primarily others who have had to study the shortcomings of the authority itself and the harmful effects that these may have caused. But there are also some additional things to add to the government's shortcomings. The wording contained in the written statement is thus a product of long discussions where every word is weighed on a golden scale so that we can find nuances in the language that everyone can swallow and support. It also means that the position would have been somewhat different if I had been given the free hand to formulate it entirely according to my own mind. One of the first differences would have been that I had mentioned not only the ministers but also their State Secretary by name and further clarified their part and responsibility in the event. It is certainly the ministers who are responsible for their State Secretary, but that, for example, the former Secretary of State Emma Lennartsson resigns because she did not ask enough follow-up questions when she learned about the leak at the Transport Agency half a year after it had occurred, while the former Minister of the Interior's then State Secretary Ann Linde, who was among the first to be informed and who did not say anything to her boss or anyone else, is being promoted to EU and trade ministers, seems to me to be mildly remarkable. But most remarkable, of course, is that the body that should be among the very first to be informed of threats to national security, i.e. the Prime Minister's Committee led by Governor Stefan Löfven, seems to have been among the by far the last to be reached by just such urgent information. The committee has noted, as has also been pointed out here, that although there are procedures for channelling information within the Government Office, it does not assess whether these are appropriate and adequate. Instead, it stops at the fact that the application of existing procedures has not worked. I almost believe that we could have come to that conclusion without any further examination at all. Sure, it is up to the Prime Minister to implement on his own responsibility any procedures he wants in his office. However, now that we are looking back at what can happen when these are not being followed, it could possibly be appropriate if the committee could also provide some input on how these procedures could be improved. It will then be easy to do the right thing for everyone involved, not least when it comes to things as extremely important as national security. This may not be enough for the ordinary old drainpipes and the principles of responsibility, simply because they may be sufficient for other more everyday matters. It is only one such thing as three four ministers being able to walk around Rosenbad for over a year without even asking each other: what about the handling of that spectacular case involving three four ministries and may have revealed a lot of Swedish defence secrets to foreign power? That's not how it works in any other group in any other work anywhere else, I think. Because maybe it's like Anders Ygeman said: This is not something you talk about on the coffee break. At the same time, however, it is to be hoped that this is not something that has become so commonplace that it is beginning to be regarded as everyday food within the Government Office. But yes, Mr President, the review has also shown that both the current and previous governments have taken far too lightly such serious issues as information and cyber security. Here neither the Red-Green nor the Alliance can swear their freedom. When you hear that a newly formed authority can be allowed to operate for five years without even establishing a safety analysis of what safety-worthy information it has to handle. Moreover, the fact that such action is contrary to the government's own security regulations makes you question leadership even more. The fact that the supervisory authority appointed by the government to monitor compliance is also not responding is astounding. Once it and other authorities do so and draw the attention of the government, sometimes several times, to shortcomings in their security work, they seem to speak on deaf ears. Apparently, it has been more important for these governments that the government and their managers carry out political reforms and receive support for achieving a gender balance in the authorities than that they can safely and responsibly defend such fundamental interests as at least not expose Swedish citizens to unnecessary risks by screwing up with their protected information. Apparently, it has been considered more important, simpler or perhaps more urgent to provide domestic centralised support systems for administrative data processing, such as the State Service Centre for Salary Payments, than to put in place a secure Swedish state-owned IT environment for those authorities that have to handle security-worthy information. That says a lot about this and the previous government's priorities, Mr President, and it certainly does not bode well for the future if any of these are to have the confidence to continue ruling. But luckily, it will soon be possible to change that. For although the audit is carried out on a strictly legal basis, it ultimately aims to require political responsibility. Surely no one is better placed to demand just such a political responsibility than the voters in the forthcoming elections.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-217	Mr President, I would like to As many people have said, it is one of the biggest reviews that the KU has carried out that we are debating at the moment. It is, above all, the most extensive of this term of office. It's about the Transport Agency. There are several complaints against both the new and the old government, and this is an extensive material that we in the KU have had access to. Just as I said in my introduction, it has very often felt like reading a puzzle detective where you struggle to find timelines, try to get together who it was and how the information should have been transported on. The Swedish Transport Agency started its operations on 1 January 2009. The agency replaced the old Railway Board and the Swedish Aviation Agency and also took over operations from the Swedish Maritime Administration and the Swedish Road Administration. It is an authority that would work with standard setting, supervision and authorisation of rail, air transport, sea traffic and road traffic. It is important for all authorities to constantly seek smarter and more effective ways of organising themselves. The issue of outsourcing came up early, already in October 2011, in a government dialogue with the Ministry of Industry. On 22 February 2013, the 2012 Annual Report states that it is planned to be able to save money through outsourcing. Already in 2007, i.e. before the agency starts, the Swedish National Audit Office comes with its report that points to delayed security work in Sweden. From 2012, the Swedish Security Service has every year in its yearbook pointed to outsourcing of IT activities. Almost identical cases are highlighted in several yearbooks as particularly vulnerable. You publish manuals and tell the authorities how to do it. Staffan Widlert, who was Director General during this time, has told us in our hearing that he had met with, among other things, Säpo where he was informed about what was protective. Nevertheless, no security analysis was carried out at the Swedish Transport Agency during the first five years of its existence. It would be a long time before all the authorities were given the task in regulatory letters. In retrospect, I may feel that special assignments should not be required for authorities to comply with the law. The government should be able to expect this. However, when the government is told on several occasions by various authorities, both Riksrevisionen and Säpo, that it does not work, it should have tightened up the responsibilities earlier. We from the KU describe that the responsibility for the security work was unclear. So to the very event where the new Director General Maria Ågren signed up for an outsourcing to a company in another country and then also the so-called deviation that you would violate what is in the law. It would take a certain amount of time for Säpo to know what had happened. Afterwards we can still see that a number of routines have kicked off. The safety-related work was started. A meeting with the Director-General was also set up in order to put the seriousness of the matter in depth. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Enterprise and the Council of State Committee were informed. But the information routes to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Prime Minister were lacking. We point that out, too. Like several other speakers in the debate, I cannot fail to reflect on the consequences. Although it is not what we have examined, it is still interesting and things that politicians think a lot about. The question of the Swedish Transport Agency has had major consequences. A Director-General has been allowed to leave his post, as have two ministers and a State Secretary. A third minister was threatened by a motion of censure but is here freed by the Constitutional Committee. We describe that Peter Hultqvist's actions were reasonable. However, we do not know – nor have we examined – whether what has happened has damaged Sweden's security. But I think that every authority, after this disaster or this accident or whatever we are about to consider it as, this event, happened, looked over its own security – and at least I think that is very good in the long term.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-230	Mr President, I would like to The shipping board, yes, what the hell are you supposed to say about that? A Director-General signs a paper stating that the authority will break the law. It's highly unlikely, but it's happened. It's true. But that's not where it started. This review clearly shows that not everything should be outsourced. The handling of particularly safe information should remain on the authorities themselves. You can imagine authorities working together, but regardless of whether the information is on paper or in IT systems, it should simply not be privatised. This may seem obvious, but an authority that only comes to the fore after five years and does a safety analysis probably has some problems with the safety culture. The Agency The Swedish Transport Agency was established in 2009, but only in 2014 was a safety analysis carried out. The fact that that authority finds out that it will procure the entire IT operations is perhaps not surprising, especially as there has been a general expectation of the authorities that the IT operations will be more efficient and preferably outsourced. The previous government stated, among other things, that a greater proportion of the authorities' IT needs should be met by outsourcing. We have reviewed the actions of the previous government in connection with this, and we have found nothing to suggest that it was informed of or involved in the plans for outsourcing the IT operations of the Transport Agency. It's important to remember. But the actual entrance was that more should be outsourced. Agneta Börjesson has clearly explained the general shortcomings in the authorities' IT management that have been pointed out, among other things, by the Swedish Security Service. What responsibility for what former cyber and energy minister Anna-Karin-Karin Hatt has had is still a little unclear. As the KU says, there is a risk that problems will not receive the necessary attention. Sometimes it is difficult to remember, for example, exactly what is written on paper. Sometimes it is easier to remember what you have actually done and what responsibility you have actually had. At a conference on public security information security organised by MSB in 2012, AnnAnn-Karin Hatt said among other things: This is actually the first time that we have an IT minister in Sweden who has a collective, horizontal responsibility for these kinds of issues, e.g. in the field of information security. That's why I'm standing here today. That is why I can give a mission to the FRA, which is why I have officials at the Ministry of Defence working for me on information security issues. So although the government did not decide to set up a special department for information security, the government has chosen to set up a portfolio that has to deal with these issues. ..................................................... One could easily think that a minister with that responsibility and with those resources is the one who acts when the National Audit Office highlights the problems with the authorities' IT security and that it is the minister who reacts when the Security Service points out the problems. However, in our hearing of former Minister Hatt, we did not find out what it was like to do, because every time we asked if something related to cybersecurity was to be done, the former Minister maintained that she had no responsibility for information security issues. When the committee then sent supplementary questions to the former Government Council, she stated that she was responsible for the coordination of... on the one hand, issues relating to the security of society's information. It would have been nice if the former Government had said this even at the hearing and made clear what this coordination really meant. By then we might have had more clarity about how the responsibility for information security work generally and comprehensively in the government actually looked like. Then we come to the decision to break the law. A Director General of a large and important government agency decides in the summer of 2015 that the agency will break the law. It has previously been highlighted – I think Agneta Börjesson did so in her first post – that it was a more or less impossible choice: either an IT business that does not work at all or to break the law. It does not really matter, because it is a completely impossible decision for a Director-General to take. You can't do that; it's obvious. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Enterprise will receive information at the end of the year. He does not inform Minister Anna Johansson, who is responsible for the Swedish Transport Agency. It is quite incomprehensible that he does not mention that the Ministry of Industry has an authority with him where the Director-General has decided to sign a paper that you ignore the law on security issues. How is that even possible? Of course she is responsible for that Secretary of State. Besides, she's one of those people who gets the information the last time in this whole spin... completely insane. The Ministry of Enterprise also does not inform the Council of State Committee, as one should have done. Nor does the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice inform the Minister of the Interior directly, nor does information go to the Council of State Committee immediately from there. It will be more than a year before the Council of State Committee is reached by the information about what has happened. As has been up before, we do not know at all how it would have affected if the information had come earlier or what could possibly have been done then. However, it is clear that there have been shortcomings in the management of information in the Government Office. We are united in this view. Maybe there's not much more to talk about. Instead, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the office for its wonderful work. It will be a lot of thank-you in this last debate, so I shall throw in my thanks here. I thank the office. The evidence that has been produced for this based on our varied wishes has been fantastically good. Based on a previous statement in the speaker's chair by Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson, one might think that the office produces letters entirely on its own behalf, but that is not the case. It is we Members who are asking for a basis for what we want to speak about. This also applies to the basis for what concerns Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt. I would also like to thank the rest of the committee for its good cooperation. Thank you!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-247	Mr President, I would like to I could fully agree with the previous speaker, specifically in what she says about the Transport Agency. What the hell else is there to say about that? When you come as the penultimate speaker, there is even less left to say. The only thing I disagree with in the previous speech is the question of outsourcing, that is, outsourcing in Swedish. The fact that outsourcing as such is a problem is not something that the committee has come up with, but it is a problem when you do not have procedures in place for what to review and what to do with outsourcing. The outsourcing of things is probably a phenomenon that we will see much more of in the future, and as long as it is done right, it is also right. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are examining shortcomings in the administration of the government and the actions of the ministers. As Hans Ekström quite correctly said, it is not the Swedish Transport Agency that we are reviewing. The Swedish Transport Agency's actions were perhaps the easiest thing to, yes, disagree with – quite the contrary – but at least understand the tours. Then it became much more complicated, as several speakers have been talking about. But, as I said, we had several complaints concerning the government's actions in connection with the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement. As we now know, the procurement process carried out the illegal handling of classified information, which is undoubtedly a very serious incident which has had major consequences. It is not only a question of state ministers leaving their posts, but also of national security. According to the Constitutional Committee, the handling also raises questions about the provision of information within the Government Office. This is precisely the part that has been the hardest to get a complete overview and understanding of. It is obvious that the Government Committee was informed of the security risks that the procurement had brought about only one year after the Ministry of Justice had been informed. After that, it took another week for Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to be informed. This is, one might say, very worrying or even alarming. When the KU resorts to such breast tones, we quickly realize that we are very worried. It seems quite obvious that events of this nature should be addressed directly with the Prime Minister, regardless of whether the Prime Minister then says that it does not matter whether he was told something or not, because he would still not have been able to do anything. I, as a citizen, and more with me, simply have the demand that the Prime Minister be informed in the event of serious events. This is security for the rest of us. I suddenly find that I have more confidence in the Prime Minister's actions than the Prime Minister himself has. It's kind of strange, I think. The KU therefore takes seriously the fact that it took such a long time before the Prime Minister was informed, and that is what we are constantly debating. The review also shows that the then Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman relatively early still was informed by his department. A man as experienced as Anders Ygeman should have been sufficiently well-informed to understand the need to follow up events and developments and to ensure that the Council of State Committee was informed. The Ministry of Justice and perhaps mainly another seasoned fox in the game, the Secretary of State of the Interior Ann Linde, burst, with KU languages, in these respects. The Government is therefore responsible for these shortcomings. The Swedish Transport Agency is located under the Ministry of Industry and was part of the responsibility of Anna Johansson, the Minister of Infrastructure at the time. She was informed at a very late stage of the events, even though the information was in her own department. The question was therefore whether the Swedish Transport Agency had deliberately acted in a way that has led to risks to national security. Yet this was not raised between her and the then Secretary of State Erik Bromander, although we are all fully aware in this Chamber that a State Secretary and a Minister are acting in symbiosis with each other. This is flawed, we point out. The KU also clearly states that the principle of responsibility that applies within the Government Office, that each department and minister is responsible for their authorities, must not result in the information remaining within the respective departments. Nor can it mean that, in any situation – as we say clearly – a minister of government can consider the transfer of information to be automatic. We can easily conclude that if this particular system had not been strictly pursued, the information would probably have been disseminated considerably earlier, and measures could have been taken – although the Prime Minister feels that it would not really have made any difference if he had known. One of my best teachers at school, whom I had the privilege of having already in middle school, once said when I had spent considerable time calculating a speech and thought I had come up with a fantastic sum: It's great calculated, Tina, but is the answer reasonable? I think we need to learn a lot from this very assessment of reasonableness – to ask ourselves at each individual occasion the question: Is it reasonable to act in this way? We heard earlier that perhaps there was only one person who acted reasonably at the Transport Agency, namely the internal auditor. Is there anything I think we should take with us from this work is it precisely to ask ourselves the questions: Is the answer reasonable? Is action reasonable? In fact, there are procedures within the Government Office to ensure the transfer of information between the departments and between the departments and the Government Committee. The committee notes that the application of the procedures in this case has failed. The Prime Minister bears ultimate responsibility for this. I would also like to call for the search that the Prime Minister has promised us and the Swedish people. What broke, and what caused the routine to break? It is even more worrying when, on direct questions which the committee has put to those involved, the answer is given: I am not aware that I have received such questions. I am therefore looking forward to an analysis, in which we will see in black and white what the Prime Minister thinks has been broken and how to deal with the problems that became so obvious. The KU has to look at the actions of the government, and we have done so. Let us hope that this review will enable everyone to take information security much more seriously from now on and also to communicate more within the Government Office and its departments.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-262	Mr President, I would like to Now we are talking about the Transport Agency and the outsourcing of IT operations and the crimes committed there by a Director-General, the consequences of them and the responsibility of the government. The Christian Democrats were the first party to register for the KU in 2017, in the month of July. We also called for a meeting to be held as soon as possible in the KU, which was held at the beginning of August. How's the review going? Has it been worth all the work that has been done for ten months? Yes, it has. We've turned every stone around. We have checked every task. I think we can say that we have done our work well. The review has revealed that the Swedish Security Service informed the Ministry of Justice on 17 September 2015 that it had received information that the Swedish Transport Agency intended to outsource, among other things, the register of driving licences abroad. Among those who received the information were Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman's State Secretary. The Swedish Security Service then informed the Ministry of Justice on 20 November 2015 that under supervision attention had been paid to conditions that prompted the Swedish Security Service to send a letter to the Swedish Transport Agency with strong recommendations on immediate safety enhancement measures. The minister responsible for the Ministry of Justice, Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman, was informed by his department about the problems surrounding the Ministry of Transport's outsourcing in January 2016. In connection with a meeting on 12 January 2016, Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson's then Secretary of State Ann Linde was informed about the situation. But it took until January 2017 that the Government with responsibility for Transportstyrelsen, Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson, received information about Transportstyrelsen's outsourcing. She was then informed by her new Under-Secretary of State that the Director-General of the Swedish Transport Agency was suspected of a crime. The review has revealed major shortcomings in the provision of information within the Government Office regarding issues of relevance to national security. This applies partly to contacts between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry and partly to contacts with other parts of the Government Office. The review has also revealed major shortcomings in the information within the ministries to the ministers and between the ministers and, above all, to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has apparently been the last to know, instead of the first. Only in December 2016 did the Swedish State Council Committee receive information about the Swedish Transport Agency's outsourcing and the problems and safety risks associated with it. Then it had been over a year since the Ministry of Justice and later the Ministry of Industry had been informed that outsourcing involved risks of national security. It took a few more weeks, until 12 January 2017, before Prime Minister Stefan Löfven received the information. We say that the Constitutional Committee takes seriously that it took such a long time before the Prime Minister was reached by this important information. The briefing previously announced by the Prime Minister to clarify the course of events and the channels of information have not yet been reported. In the government work, each ministry and minister is responsible for their areas, even in the event of a crisis. In this case, responsibility for the authority where the problems arose, i.e. the Swedish Transport Agency, was with the Ministry of Industry and thus with the Minister for Infrastructure. The responsibility for the Security Service was with the Ministry of Justice and the Minister for Home Affairs. At the time Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman was relatively early informed about this. He should then have been sufficiently well-informed to understand the need to monitor developments and ensure that the relevant ministries and the Council of State Committee were informed, but there the Ministry of Justice and not least the Secretary of State of the Minister for the Interior broke down. It concerns both coordination with the Ministry of Enterprise and communication with the Council of State Committee. Responsibility for these shortcomings rests with Anders Ygeman. Anders Ygeman has not dealt with the event and its consequences either with the Prime Minister or with the Minister for Infrastructure throughout the period in question, and the committee says: ..................................................... With regard to the then Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson, she was informed at a very late stage of the event, but the information was early in her department. It was only in January 2017 that she became aware that an authority under her responsibility had deliberately acted in a way that had led to risks to national security and that a criminal investigation had begun a year earlier. It is striking that an issue of this kind was not raised between the Government and her then State Secretary. Responsibility for the inadequate relationship between them rests with Anna Johansson. As Minister of State, Anna Johansson was also responsible for the inadequate contacts between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Justice and for the Ministry of Economic Affairs not informing the Committee of State of the risks to national security that had arisen. As regards Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, the committee says jointly that it has been found that he had reason to assume that the Council of State Committee had also received the information. However, the principle of responsibility that applies within the government that each department and minister are responsible for their authorities must not, at the same time, result in all information remaining within the respective departments. Nor can it mean that, in any situation, a minister can assume that information is transmitted within other parts of the Government Office in the manner in which it is intended. If the principle of liability had not been strictly followed in this case, the Council of State Committee would have been able to obtain information about the event in the past. What does the Constitutional Committee say about the Prime Minister? As Head of Government and Head of the Government Office, the Prime Minister has overall responsibility for the work of the Government and the Government Office. This means that he is responsible, among other things, for the Government Office having procedures for information transmission and for the fact that these procedures actually work. Within the Government Office there are procedures to ensure the transfer of information between the departments and between the departments and the Government Committee in case of serious situations, but the application of the procedures in this case has failed. I'd like to say they haven't left. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven bears the ultimate responsibility for the fact that the procedures have not worked.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-274	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I will talk about paragraph 5.1 of the KU20, about the actions of the previous government in relation to the Transport Agency. Most things in the debate have so far been about the current government, but as Hans Ekström and others have said, the pre-history also played a role here. The Swedish Security Service early warned the Swedish Government and Swedish authorities about the dangers of outsourcing IT operations. For example, in the Yearbook of Säpo 2012 there is a whole section titled a "Outsourcing" – a potential threat to sensitive data, in large black letters. In this section, Säpo examines the risks of outsourcing in relation to foreign power intelligence collection. In another section, Säpo describes how it had already seen examples that organisations had failed to identify different IT systems as worthy of protection and then outsourced the systems with insufficient security requirements. The Security Service has also warned against this in other reports and contexts. So this was a known problem — a known threat to national security. The Security Service itself points out in the yearbooks that this development was largely driven by government demands on authorities in terms of efficiency and economic considerations. This is also what the review by the Constitutional Committee shows. When the Swedish Transport Agency was formed by the previous government, there was a clear message from the government that there would be more efficiency improvements. Mr President, I would like to It is important to highlight the serious consequences of the previous government's actions. It has emerged that the Swedish Transport Agency from the date when the previous government formed the authority in 2009 violated Swedish law on cyber security. Until 2014, the Authority had not carried out a safety analysis. For nearly five years, they broke the Swedish security regulations, the whole purpose of which is to protect national security. Today we cannot know what this meant for the authority and what damage it did then, nor has it been our job to examine it. The committee's task has been to find out the responsibilities of the previous government and its ministers. The picture that has emerged during our review is that the work on information security issues in the previous government was neglected and that the then government did not do enough to remedy the shortcomings pointed out. While some initiatives were taken, the KU agrees that concrete and immediate action does not seem to have been taken to the extent required. In view of this, it is important that the government monitors the activities of the authorities and, if necessary, ensures that the necessary measures are taken from a governance perspective. Mr President, I would like to The work of previous governments on information security has been reviewed on several occasions by the Swedish National Audit Office. During a review in 2014, the Swedish National Audit Office considered that the work on information security was not appropriate, in terms of the threats and risks that exist. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office pointed out that the system of rules for information security essentially looked like it did in 2007 and that the shortcomings that the Swedish National Audit Office had pointed out at the time remained largely, which means shortcomings in the previous government's governance. During seven years of the previous government's rule, therefore, insufficient action was taken, despite clear warning signals from both the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish National Audit Office. We Social Democrats in Parliament took this very seriously. One example is when the Board of the Swedish National Audit Office in a petition to the Riksdag in 2007 considered that the Government should carry out a review of the regulation of the state administration's information security as soon as possible, which we supported at the time. We exercised for a review, in a follow-up motion to the Swedish National Audit Office's petition, but both we Social Democrats and the National Audit Board were voted down in the Riksdag by the Moderates, Center Party, KD and Liberals. Mr President, I would like to To me as a Member of Parliament, it seems extremely serious when the members of the Government ignore warning bells when two such important authorities as the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish National Audit Office ring in them, especially when it comes to something as urgent as cyber security and national security. In the light of this, the misleading information provided by the previous government on the outsourcing of IT activities by the state seems problematic. I will now talk about it, because a great deal of the time we have spent on this matter has unfortunately been about the misleading information that has been given to the KU. Mr President, I would like to Here is an example: In January 2011, the Swedish National Audit Office published another report on IT in the state administration and on outsourcing. Among other things, the report drew attention to information security requirements. The Swedish National Audit Office considered that in some cases the authorities either failed in their obligation to classify the information or misclassified the information. One possible explanation was the lack of common guidelines and positions on the classification of information. The Swedish National Audit Office considered that this lack of advice may have meant that the authorities broke down. There was also a lack of a recommendation on how authorities would impose information security requirements in procurement. The previous government stated in its assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which was sent to the Riksdag, that it shared the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that it was desirable for a larger part of the authorities' IT needs to be satisfied by outsourcing. At the time, AnnaAnna-Karin Hatt was responsible for the letter. The only problem was that this statement was directly incorrect and misleading. Nowhere did the Swedish National Audit Office write that it was desirable that the authorities' IT activities were outsourced. The Swedish National Audit Office itself points out that the previous government statement was wrong. Anna Maria Böök of the Swedish National Audit Office has said to the media: This assessment is not included in the report. ..................................................... In addition, one of Sweden's top experts in auditing in government administration, Shirin Ahlbäck Öberg, at Uppsala University, has stated that this is the reason for this: a reference to some kind of expertise underpins an ideological position and makes it look like you actually have a basis that points in that direction, but it has not. ..................................................... She has also said: I think one can very well stand for a preference, a valuation one has: in this case, outsourcing would be good. But trying to dress it in some kind of rational suit by invoking support in a source that actually does not provide support, that's not good. It's misleading. ..................................................... Misleading was the word. Mr President, I would like to Here are examples two: In the KU we have held hearings on the matters relating to the Swedish Transport Agency. Most have been with representatives from government agencies or from the current government. A hearing has been held with a representative from the previous government: the former IT Minister Anna-Karin Anna-Karin. At the hearing Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt was very careful to point out in her introduction that she was not responsible for information security issues as Minister. She also returned to this several times during the hearing. Today's News estimates that she repeated this on at least seven occasions. I remember it well. Both I and other members of the KU tried to ask her questions about information security, but she firmly rejected them. However, the data provided to the KU did not prove to be accurate. Anna-Karin-Karin Hatt had a responsibility for society's information security. It was even about something so important that she had the responsibility of coordinating the government for this. In committee, we note that what she said was flawed and gave the impression that information security issues were not at all part of her remit. As previously stated by the committee, information provided to the KU shall be accurate and complete. And what the committee has said in the past in similar cases is that deliberately misleading information can, of course, never be accepted. It is contrary to the objective requirement of the government form. The constitutional control carried out by the Constitutional Committee presupposes that the committee can rely on the accuracy of the information given to it and give a fair view of what is being examined and that the essential facts are not left out. If the committee cannot trust this, the constitutional control of the government is undermined. Only after a couple of written questions have been put to Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt, where we in committee refer to a YouTube clip where she herself talks about her responsibility for information security, did Hatt admit that she had a responsibility. The YouTube clip is from a conference on information security organised by the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB in 2012. Anna-Karin-Karin Hatt said: This is actually the first time that we have an IT minister in Sweden who has a collective, horizontal responsibility for these kinds of issues, e.g. in the field of information security. That's why I'm standing here today. That is why I can give a mission to the FRA, which is why I have officials at the Ministry of Defence working for me on information security issues. So although the government did not decide to set up a special department for information security, the government has chosen to set up a portfolio that has to deal with these issues. ..................................................... Through the inadequate and misleading information she provided at the KU hearing, she made our work more difficult. It's very serious. Mr President, I would like to In our common opinion in the KU, there is reason to question whether the accountability of the previous government in relation to information security issues was sufficiently clear. The KU believes that with such unclear responsibilities within the government, there was a risk that the problems did not receive the necessary attention in the government work and that the necessary measures therefore did not exist. We would like to emphasise the importance of clear responsibilities, particularly in areas such as information security, where the consequences of non-action can be very serious. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, this is the case: Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I shall say something about something that has been said here in the House before. PerPer-Ingvar Johnsson believes that it is less important what the former IT minister said to the KU at the hearing and that we in the KU should be satisfied that she participated. I do not share this view and would like to stress the KU's previous position on the importance of the government's representatives providing accurate information. But sure, if the bar is that the minister does not have to show up – the former party leader of the Center, Maud Olofsson, did not – one can possibly understand Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson's admiration for Hatt's inadequate information. However, I do not share this and repeat the committee's position on the KU hearing of Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt. What she said was flawed.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-309	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in both the committee and the Parliament in general for the fine years that I have had as a Member, as this is my last debate in this House. To be able to represent the citizens of Parliament is perhaps the finest thing a person can do. To perform their duties as a Member of Parliament on the Constitutional Committee is something that many of the colleagues in the Parliament in general avoid, but those of us who sit there know that it is absolutely fantastic. What these colleagues do not seem to have understood is that as a member of the KU, they are given insight and influence as regards the essence of the state and also the political foundations upon which our whole society is built. The dual responsibility of our committee – the political, like any other committee – and the unique task of reviewing the government – provide a mission and responsibility that is unique and incredibly exciting. Mr President, I would like to Of the 424 pages that form part one of the review report, this block's debate concerns the scarce 100 pages on certain questions concerning the government's relationship with Parliament. I intend to focus mainly on the parts of the chapter relating to the government's EU work and how it is anchored in Parliament. Notifications concerning the relationship between government and parliament on EU issues have been numerous during the term of office. This year, however, there are only three. I think that this should be interpreted in such a way that, during the term of office, we, through our work in committee, and the practice created by it, in a real way, have given more clarity to the rules of the game, thereby also creating greater security and security in how to deal with the issues. With this year's report, we are continuing on the road as constructive reviewers on these issues through clear positions which can in themselves be used as a guide for the future. In conclusion, in order for EU work to work satisfactorily, clarity must prevail above all from the government, but Parliament through its EU Board and committee also has an essential responsibility. In the light of the work carried out in it as a result of our review of Parliament's appointed parliaments the EU Committee and the proposals from the Riksdag Board on 15 June on how the Riksdag should develop its EU work have also been made more clear, while still more is to come. Mr President, I would like to You might think that sometimes it gets a little grumpy and whiny when it comes to all the matters we have dealt with over the years in this area. What one must remember, however, is that, according to our constitutions, it is the parliament that makes law, which means that the consultations between the parliament and government on EU issues must be given an essential weight and relevance in order that legislative action should not be taken away from the parliament as a legislative assembly. The EU is simply not foreign policy, and on the basis of the fact that it is the government that represents Sweden in the Council that falls a heavy responsibility that the government, whenever it may be called for, ensures communication with the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the relationship between parliament and government when it comes to EU issues is working is becoming increasingly important in a troubled world. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate that what we thought about eternal peace coming is not true. It became clear with Russia's occupation of Crimea and the creation of satellite states on Georgian territory. Ill-liberal democracy has become hippie among authoritarian types such as Erdo中an, Orbán, Putin and Kaczynski, who are cleaning up more and more of what is needed to be seen as decent European democracies. If we are to be able to stand up to such things, we must ensure that cooperation works as it should and that Swedish action in the EU continues to have a strong and clear foundation in Parliament. Once again, Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and for your frank discussions over the table. I would like to thank you for the good laughs and fun deposits found in everything from our constitutional history to our political present. I would also like to thank the offices and staff in general for making parliamentary work possible through your professionalism and competence, while the glimpse in the eye is always there. Thank you, everyone! See you at the barricades!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-321	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this year's review case under Chapter 1, I would like to draw particular attention to two complaints concerning the government's relationship with Parliament. The first concerns the power of parliamentary control of such an important instrument of interpellation. Briefly described to those who listen, it is the opportunity for Members of Parliament to put questions to various ministers on topical issues, with the ensuing debate in the House. The notifier raises the problem that, on several occasions, the interpellation has not been answered by the minister to whom the questioner wanted to address himself for various reasons, mainly because that minister has been judged to have had the best knowledge in the field to answer it. The KU has previously looked at various aspects of the response to interpellations. It has been primarily the case that they are not answered in time. In this context, the KU has stated that a minister should be able to refrain from replying to an interpellation only in exceptional circumstances and if there are exceptional reasons. This is precisely the aspect that has been brought to the fore in this review. In the correspondence that KU has had with the Ministry of Environment and Energy regarding one of the examples that the notifier has mentioned in its notification, the Ministry answers as follows: In the current situation, when the same interpellation has been made on two occasions – however, not by the same questioner, own note – for a shorter period of time and the answer had been a repetition of the already submitted responses, there were considered to be particular reasons for refraining from replying to the interpellation. This, Mr President, cannot be regarded as a filler, but constitutes an overly comprehensive interpretation of what can be said to be a very serious reason. The mere fact that a similar or similar interpellation has already been answered by the Government cannot, in the Committee's view, be said to be a serious reason to refrain from replying again to an interpellation. Here the KU expresses a clear flaw in the government's approach. In a living and mobile democracy, the possibility of interpelling is a very important part. We must protect it. Mr President, I would like to The next review matter that I would like to draw attention to under the same chapter concerns a notification about Swedish participation in international defence cooperation. The international defence cooperation in question concerns Sweden's participation in the UK-led JEF, Joint Expeditionary Force, which includes forces from Denmark, Norway and the Baltic countries. This cooperation is mentioned in the defence policy proposal as a good example of possible cooperation. If there is broad political agreement, and so far all is well. What the notification and review is about, however, is whether sufficient information was provided by the Minister of Defence to the Riksdag and to the Defence Committee on the report submitted by the Swedish Defence Attaché in London in 2015 on the British interest in Swedish participation. It was possible to read about this in a newspaper article in autumn 2015. Of course, some questions were raised about this from the members of the Committee on Defence and some other Members of Parliament. But despite recurring questions in the form of interpellations and the like about a forthcoming cooperation and whether there has been any preparation process, precise answers in this have shone with their absence, and that is, of course, unfortunate. In the defence debate, Mr President, we agree on the importance of anchoring Swedish security policy both to the wider public and, for the sake of long-term and stability, to all parties in Parliament. In the KU, we noted during the review that the information on Swedish participation in this international defence cooperation provided by the Minister for Defence and the Government to the Riksdag is of such a nature that we would like to emphasise that it is of great importance for Sweden's defence and security policy. It is therefore important that the information is clear, complete and up-to-date. For my part, I would also like to add the floor. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the findings of the investigation, we in committee have nothing to say against the actions of the Minister for Defence and the Government on a formal basis, but note that uncertainties had been raised if the Minister for Defence had provided information at an earlier stage than was now done. Translated from KU languages, this means that a lot of ambiguities, misunderstandings and dissatisfaction had been removed and we had had a much clearer and broader anchoring process. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the Minister for Defence has been subject to the KU's review of whether sufficient information has been provided in sufficient time. If we are to pay attention to the fact that it should be widely anchored and that it should be proper processing processes, this is important to consider.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-334	Mr President, I would like to I said in my opening speech that it is gratifying that the KU finds almost complete common ground in this year's review. That, of course, is the case. With regard to the subject we are now discussing, the relationship between Parliament and Parliament, we are in fact in complete agreement. Since the previous speaker has already said a lot about what we are about to talk about, I would like to apologise to the committee and to those who listen for some repetitions. But that is what happens, of course, when we largely agree on a report. However, there is a great deal of wisdom that can stand to be repeated. I shall begin, like Annicka Engblom, by talking about the government's approach to the instrument of interpellation. For those of you who listen and are not Members, it may be worth knowing that an interpellation is a question that a Member of Parliament can ask a minister or a minister. The Minister has a certain time to reply to an interpellation. The KU has stated in a previous review that interpellations to ministers are an important part of the parliament's control power. In this context, it is important that the response times are also respected so that the question institutes can have the intended effect by law and regulation. The KU has noted that, despite repeated comments from the committee over the years, the response time for interpellations has been exceeded in too much of the cases. That, of course, is not good. This year, the KU states that it is important that it is the minister whose area is affected by the interpellation that should also answer it. A minister should be able to refrain from replying to an interpellation only exceptionally and for exceptional reasons. The time that has elapsed since a previous interpellation has been answered and if, since then, additional circumstances of relevance in this context are examples of such circumstances that, in the view of the committee, must be taken into account when assessing whether there are particular reasons to refrain from replying again to an interpellation. The KU further notes that a minister cannot refrain from replying to an interpellation only on the ground that a similar or equivalent interpellation has already been made and answered on an earlier occasion. The KU has also dealt with the question of how the government works with announcements, i.e. how the government deals with a letter of intent from the Riksdag. The basis is that the government should always comply with an announcement. I will not delve into all matters, but one of particular interest is the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of an announcement of increased voting turnout among foreign Swedes. My colleague Fredrik Eriksson will talk more about the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in a speech later on, but in the present case it has been done in the following way. The Swedish Parliament has made an announcement to the government about measures to increase voting turnout among foreign Swedes. The basis of the announcement was a report by the KU. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has then written in an instruction to the foreign authorities: the Constitutional Committee has proposed in its report an announcement on measures to increase the turnout of foreign Swedes. But now the KU has not recommended this, it is a decision taken by the Swedish parliament. This should also have been borne out by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' instructions. As we will hear later, this is not the only time that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has not handled information correctly. I find it remarkable. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention a few words about the European Union. This year, the KU has reason to point out that it is important for the Government to anchor its positions in the Riksdag in accordance with the form of the Government, which states that the Government must continuously inform the Riksdag and consult the bodies appointed by the Riksdag on what is happening within the framework of cooperation in the European Union. This has been the case, among other things, when Ann Linde acted before and at the General Affairs Council on 16 May 2017 on the issue of dialogue with Poland. The Government had provided information that the Council of Ministers would only be informed by the Commission concerning Poland and was therefore of the opinion that a consultation with the EU Board was not necessary. Thus, in this case, no mandate was obtained from the EU Board for any Swedish position on the Council of Ministers. Now, instead, it became a discussion point where the Government itself was the driving force. In view of the above, the KU has pointed out that the Council of State was unhindered to consult the EU Board either at its meeting on 12 May or at the request of the Government at a subsequent telephone meeting. Mr President, I would like to It is important that the representatives of the government do not round around the representatives of the Riksdag but anchor their positions according to the rules that we have jointly drawn up. The European Union is supranational enough as it is; not to use the tools which, after all, exist to anchor our work with Brussels gives us even worse opportunities to actually influence. My view is, of course, that Sweden should leave the EU, but until we have done so, the government should at least be able to inform the Riksdag of what it intends to do in the negotiations with this supranational body.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-346	Mr President, I would like to We are now in that part of the review dealing with the relationship between the government and the parliament. Just as I highlighted in my opening speech, there are a lot of game rules issues. They are incredibly important for the work of the Government and the Riksdag to function well. During his term of office, there have been questions about EU cooperation, which Jonas Gunnarsson has, in the past, been commendable in the debate. In a few years, there were as many as ten notifications. The Riksdag then set up an inquiry, and after that it seems that there have been fewer notifications and that there has been some better clarity on how the difficult work of anchoring EU issues in the Riksdag should be done. The Riksdag has conducted an investigation that makes it clear that the Head of Government should ask ministers to undertake in writing to come to Parliament when the KU calls. This is important in principle and makes clear how strong and important the role of the KU is. In the case of announcements, the KU has examined in particular negative announcements in the past. But in this year's review, which I find particularly interesting, the committee has pointed out that it is important for the government to have sufficient time to implement what is to be done and that it is also important that the government tries to listen to the Riksdag and not unnecessarily prolong a process in which the Riksdag and the Government are nevertheless in agreement. The committee also comments in some cases that better communication almost always reduces the risk of misunderstanding. An important and fundamental issue is a Natura 2000 area on Gotland, Ojnareskogen, where the government notified this area in 2015 to the Natura 2000 network list. I can now conclude, after the matter has been to the Supreme Administrative Court, which has declared that the government's decision remains valid, that the KU also believes that the government has actually done the right thing. After all these years of fighting over this protected area, I think it feels very good. Several previous speakers have addressed the question of the question institutes. The KU is now clarifying how to act when it comes to handing over questions. I would like to object to what Mrs Engblom has said from the speaker's seat, namely that we from the KU should have pointed out shortcomings in the matter. I cannot see that the committee has written this in the opinion. It is a brief position in which the committee writes that the mere fact that a similar or similar interpellation has already been answered cannot be said to be a serious reason. I guess that's the strongest criticism there is. I do not think it is going as far as calling it a deficiency, nor does our press release show that. We also note that the Minister for the Environment actually answered the question in the forthcoming debate. I believe that any clarification of practice that the KU makes and has made during this parliamentary term helps to clarify the rules of the game and is therefore very good.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-354	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make a few comments on the matter of announcement of increased voting turnout for foreign Swedes. In the Constitutional Committee, together with the other members, I have contributed to an announcement that the Riksdag passed on to the Government in spring 2017, which was about measures to increase voting turnout among foreign Swedes. Since in the Government's draft budget in autumn 2017 for the 2018 election year there were no proposals for measures, a written question was submitted to Minister for Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke about measures in November 2017. The question was then answered by Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström in December 2017. She promised in her reply that measures would be taken to increase the turnout of foreign Swedes, including through increased openness in our embassies abroad. However, when the Constitutional Committee visited the Election Authority last spring, we were told that several Consulate-Generals in countries where there are many foreign Swedes had stated that they will not be able to receive the votes of the foreign Swedes, because from this election they will need double staffing in embassies and consulate-generals to receive their votes. KU has asked the Ministry for Foreign Affairs about this and was answered in March 2018 that they are working to solve these problems and that there is also a plan from October 2017 for an increased turnout among foreign Swedes in the autumn elections. The KU has not criticised the government in this matter. However, I think it is important that we follow up on the fact that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs really does live up to what was promised, that steps are taken to increase the turnout and that all Consulates General will be able to increase transparency, something that the Election Authority was concerned about after some signals that had previously come.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-358	Mr President, I would like to As we have said before, we are a completely united committee on these issues. Instead of repeating what my honourable colleagues have said on the two issues that I had also chosen to address – that is, the importance of the interpellation instrument and increased turnout for foreign Swedes – I would like to say that I fully support Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson, Annicka Engblom's and Agneta Börjesson's statements. I cannot fail, however, to raise a matter that has also been discussed, but it is an issue that is particularly close to my heart, for again this year the KU has had to examine notifications about the government's work on EU issues and about contact with the EU Board. It is a dear subject of notification which I, as a warm friend of the European Union, choose to see as proof that we in this House take Sweden's active work on European issues seriously both here and in Brussels. It is obvious when you are out in the world discussing EU issues that we, as Swedish elected representatives, can be involved in EU work in a completely different way from many of our colleagues around Europe, that is, we can take part in and can influence issues. It is a great opportunity for us, but it is also an obligation for the government to actually fulfil the obligation of information and consultation that it has. As regards the notification of the action of the Minister for Trade at a Council meeting on the rule of law, during the consultation of the EU Board, the Council of Ministers was clear that the Council of Ministers would only be informed by the Commission on Poland and that the issue did not really require consultation. Thereby, of course, no mandate was obtained from the EU Board of Swedish Positions on the matter. But as the notifier then noticed – which I also did when I listened to the P1 – Ann Linde said, when she was interviewed on Swedish Radio and got questions about how Sweden and the EU acted towards Poland, that Sweden participated actively in the discussions held at the Council of Ministers meeting and that Sweden was clear with what action Sweden wanted from the EU. In fact, the Minister of the European Union went so far as to say: I have been very proactive on this issue, and at the last meeting I was the one who started the discussion. We can then discuss whether there should have been a consultation or not. The Parliamentary Order stipulates that the Government shall inform the EU Board of matters to be decided by the Council of the European Union. The Government shall also consult the Board on how the negotiations in the Council are to be conducted before decisions in the Council, and the Government shall consult the Board for meetings and decisions of the European Council. The current item on the agenda of the General Council was another issue concerning information from the Commission on the ongoing dialogue between the Commission and Poland. If a procedure under Article 7 of the EU Treaty were subsequently initiated, the matter would be the subject of a decision by the European Council, and the obligation to consult would thus exist. However, at the time of the meeting of the EU Board on 12 May and the Council meeting on 16 May, it was not yet decided whether an Article 7 procedure should be initiated. The government therefore does not formally have a consultation obligation. But, and here it comes, the committee also notes that the question that was raised, that is, whether there is a clear risk of a Member State seriously and persistently violating the principles of the rule of law – which one can well discuss if a number of countries within the European Union do not at the moment – was whether the Union should take a stand against one of its own Member States. The issue is therefore of great importance and importance both to Sweden as a State and to Sweden as a Member State of the EU. The review shows that Ann Linde has had a clear view and has acted proactively at the Council meeting. In addition, the Council meeting would include other than information from the Commission. Against this background, the committee would like to point out – here comes a fantastic KU language again – that Ann Linde has been unhindered to consult the EU Board at its meeting on 12 May or at a later telephone meeting. It goes like a red thread through many of the notifications and reviews we have made that communication is the key to everything. In future, I would rather see too much consultation than too little consultation. I say this on behalf of the European Council and also on behalf of the Constitutional Committee.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-366	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee is working its way through this debate day and is almost at halftime. We are now working on a chapter dealing with the government's relationship with the Riksdag. Of the cases under this heading, I have apparently made the same choice as the previous Member, to address the actions of the EU and Trade Minister at a Council meeting on the rule of law. In the notification, the notifier asked the KU to examine the actions of Minister Ann Linde before and at the General Affairs Council on 16 May 2017 regarding the dialogue with Poland within the framework of the rule of law framework. According to the notifier, the Government was clear that the Council of Ministers would only be informed by the Commission concerning Poland and that the matter did not require consultation with the EU Board. It also did not obtain a mandate from the EU Board for any Swedish position on the Council of Ministers. When Ann Linde was interviewed on 27 May 2017 on Swedish Radio and asked how Sweden and the EU acted towards Poland, she pointed out that Sweden participated actively in the discussions held at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 16 May and that Sweden was clear about what action Sweden wanted from the EU. Ann Linde said: I have been very proactive on this issue, and at the last meeting I started the discussion. What does the KU think about this? Well, we start from the 7th chapter of the Riksdag Order. Paragraph 14, first paragraph, which states that the Government shall inform the EU Board of matters to be decided by the Council of the European Union. Did Ann Linde do this? If a procedure under Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union were subsequently initiated, the matter would be the subject of a decision of the European Council and a consultation obligation. However, at the time of the meeting of the EU Board on 12 May 2017 and the Council meeting on 16 May, it was not decided whether an Article 7 procedure would be initiated, and thus we in committee say that there has been no formal obligation to consult. In addition, the KU notes that the type of question at issue, i.e. whether there is a clear risk that a Member State seriously and persistently violates the rule of law, applies if the Union is to take a stand against one of its own Member States. The issue is therefore of great importance both to Sweden as a State and to Sweden as a Member State of the EU. The review shows that Ann Linde has had a clear view and has acted proactively at the current Council meeting. It seems that what later took place at the Council meeting included other things than information from the Commission. In conclusion, the KU concludes that, against this background, Ann Linde was unhindered to consult the EU Board, at its meeting on 12 May or at the request of the Government at a later telephone meeting. .....................................................
i-ec853962355fdcf4-372	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the whole Committee on the Constitution for its constructive and good cooperation. I would like to thank our President, Andreas Norlén, and our Vice-President, Björn von Sydow, for their genuine leadership. I would also like to express my thanks to our extremely competent office. The Constitutional Committee is a committee that strictly keeps the direction of how best governance practices in the country should be prioritised, especially before internal party politics. It is not just for this year but for a full term of office, and despite an uncertain environment, it has led the committee to focus even more effectively on its tasks of upholding constitutions and governance. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to I would specifically like to highlight for this block the notification concerning the government's information management and then Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman's statements in connection with the refugee reception in autumn 2015. The KU has mainly reviewed the government's actions when the Migration Agency informed and signalled the Government Office that the number of asylum seekers appeared to be more than the work previously thought. The committee notes that the Special Investigator considered that the Government provided sufficient information in various ways and that, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, among other things, the Migration Agency was able to carry out its core mission during the refugee situation. At the same time, KU shares the assessment of the Special Investigator, who concluded that the Government and the Government Office did not act quickly enough on the information provided. In order for the government to be able to fulfil its governance function in situations that require swift and decisive action, more proactive action is needed. In addition to this, the KU notes that the then Minister of Home Affairs of the Parliament said that the information provided to the Government Office meant that the number of refugees to Europe increased, not that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden would increase. The statement is not entirely consistent with the findings of the review. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are in favour of the committee's assessment of the matter, but the issue will benefit from being put in the right context. During early summer and early autumn 2015 it was very difficult to assess how many people on the run would go to Sweden. During this time, the European asylum system also collapsed. The signal given by the Migration Board in early September was that it was estimated that it could reach a total of 90 000 to Sweden that year. This is a high figure, both in relation to the July forecast and to what is normal. At the same time, the figure is considerably lower than the 163 000 it finally landed on. Neither the Finnish Immigration Service nor MSB requested any extraordinary input from the government due to these signals in September. This is important to emphasise. The government provided sufficient information in various ways. The relevant authorities were mainly able to complete their core mission during the refugee situation. Based on the September signals, the government took steps to increase the preparedness of the authorities and municipalities to receive an increased number of refugees and to be able to deal with the situation. The Government Office also established various functions for crisis management, coordination and dissemination of information. As a whole, it must be noted that the whole of Swedish society made an impressive contribution to a very demanding and difficult situation.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-382	Mr President, I would like to I would like to give a special greeting to all interested in state law, possibly those who read the minutes in the future. It is an important function that we maintain in the Constitutional Committee, and I would like to remind you that the power of control must continue constantly, even if nothing has happened. Now there has been quite a lot in the past year, but normally it is important that the control power in its various guises – JO notifications, Riksrevisionen, KU, freedom of expression and freedom of communication – is constantly ongoing, 24 hours a day. It does not have to be the case that an audit is to be called for. What if it were the case in limited companies and companies that there was only one audit report if a shareholder requested one? Then there would have been chaos in the economy and, of course, in the public administration, too, if we did not do our important work. Mr President, I would like to The public and voters believe that the KU is a political squabble and hope for some exchange of views at hearings, but in fact the quality of the KU's work is maintained by the Registry, under the leadership of the elected members of the KU. Some believe that it is we in the committee who have written all the papers – the 8 kilos that Hans Ekström showed up. This is not the case; it is a very good office. They should have special thanks from the citizens for ensuring that the KU can do the job with unwelcome zeal. Control is now in a political-law ecosystem, as you might call it. The media examines and pays attention, and freedom of expression and communication works. These will be the foundations that we cannot be without. It is therefore with great pleasure that I note that we have once again ensured that the free press is able to operate in the future. Without the efforts of the newspapers and the media, there might not be much attention and therefore not so many reports from the Members and the Riksdag. Let me show you what I mean by an example. There is in the review memo something called, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of documents in connection with the Security Council campaign. Documents shall be recorded and accessible. It is also a prerequisite for making our democracy work. In this case, it took over a year for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to add these procedures to the archive properly. It is clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a responsibility for this. But she has also taken on this and has ensured that there has been a reform that we hope will work. We haven't seen the results yet. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken this on board and has taken responsibility for the emergence of this deficiency. How did this happen in real life? Well, someone used their freedom of communication in contact with a journalist. I know that; that's how it happened. Today's News called for the Security Council campaign to be launched at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, of course, they also have the right to do in the system that we have. The documents had not yet become general. They were not in the way we would like to see them. DN then published two articles accusing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of wanting to hide the facts of the Security Council campaign. Of course, if someone says, "No, I'm not going to show you that." Clearly, there is a risk that there will be a feeling that something is not right and that something is lurking. The KU does not have to examine the content of foreign policy. We'll see if we've got it right. Nevertheless, officials from the KU have looked at this whole common area of work and the 900 pages that are there. What came out? There is little reason to criticise the Security Council campaign as such, but there is great reason to criticise the way in which it is documented. I fully agree with what the Vice-Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Björn von Sydow, mentioned in the criticism of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs: let us not get back into this situation. Unnecessary suspicions and mistrust of something as essential as our foreign ministry were created. We've been looking at the ministers and nothing else. But between the lines of the report: my former colleagues at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Do not expose the next Foreign Minister to the same torment and embarrassment that the current one experienced.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-395	Mr President, I would like to In my last speech, I spoke about the breakdown of information with the government when it came to the IT scandal at the Transport Agency. A further breakdown took place at about the same time in connection with the high-profile influx of migrants in the autumn of 2015. This is not the first time, and probably not the last time, that we are talking about summer and autumn 2015 in this House. The issue has also been investigated by both the KU and the Swedish National Audit Office and a special investigator. Both the Swedish National Audit Office and the investigation revolved much around whether the now more or less legendary July forecast from the Migration Board, which saw how many migrants would come to Sweden, matched the real outcome or not. We can see that it did not – quite far from it. However, it has also been shown that the Ministry of Justice and the Government Office at least at the beginning of September received signals that the Migration Agency estimated that up to 90 000 asylum seekers could come to Sweden in 2015, i.e. a not entirely insignificant increase in relation to what the Migration Board had estimated in July. Had this information been passed on within the Government Office and to the relevant authorities, Sweden's preparedness could probably have been better. Of course, it would also have been nice if former Home Secretary Anders Ygeman had spoken in a way that was more in line with reality. In addition to the Ministry of Justice, and by all means also the Ministry of Enterprise, there is another department that seems to have a tendency to breakdown more or less regularly, not least when it comes to issues relating to the registration and disclosure of public documents. I am, of course, talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the leadership of Margot Wallström. I would therefore like to dwell for a moment on a few chapters on the management of the notorious Security Council campaign by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The KU last year reviewed Sweden's campaign to enter the Security Council. We found and pointed out, among other things, an extensive backlog in the record keeping. In the current review, we have found further delays in more than a year in registering an extremely central document of almost 900 pages as to what measures the government took against the other countries of the UN General Assembly to get them to vote for Sweden as a member of the Security Council. This, of course, is completely contrary to the principle of public access to documents and to the basic objective of the acquis, which is to guarantee access to public documents to the public as a matter of urgency. Furthermore, the fact that it took many months after the KU stated the importance of this in its previous review, before the document was finally registered, obviously makes the management of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs seem even more remarkable. The committee notes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot escape responsibility for this, and we look forward to the investigation that will ensure that something similar does not happen again. The fact that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Government Office in general find it difficult to handle information in an adequate, well-thought-out and unisoned manner is also evident from the review cases concerning the Swedish Defence Committee's latest report from December 2017. It states, among other things, that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, which has been seen by many assessors as a tightening up to the previous formulation that an armed attack on Sweden is unlikely. Mrs Wallström has, however, stated that she preferred the earlier wording rather than the last one of the parliamentary parties and completely allowed the old expressions to go out to the foreign authorities in their speeches. Even more confusing is the fact that other ministers and representatives, including the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence, despite calls for joint preparation and suchlike within the Government Office, have gone out with other statements that are more in line with the approach of the Defence Committee. In this way, the Government Office risks appearing to be completely unsynchronised on such crucial issues as national security and the defence of the country. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to focus somewhat on the matter in which we have a specific opinion and which concerns the notification of a so-called Natura 2000 area. Perhaps it is not the very issue in itself that is the most interesting, as we all agree that the government escaped with the mere horror of the Supreme Administrative Court. What we do not agree on in this House, however, is the interesting question of principle, namely how best it should have been if the Supreme Administrative Court had not finally met the government but had reached another judgment which would have meant that the government had to change the decision taken in the past. Here the government and the other parties seem to be completely satisfied that a ruling by the Swedish Supreme Administrative Court risks being completely ineffective and that some officials of the European Commission in Brussels are left to decide what should happen instead. Moreover, in the case of the government, it appeared at the committee hearing that the responsible minister, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog, did not even know or understand what could be the consequence of the government's actions and let alone that no action had been taken either to investigate or to prevent such a scenario. I, in turn, do not know which is worse, Mr President. Is it a careless government that doesn't know what it's doing? Or is it a government that is fully aware that it irrevocably destroys all possibilities for an affected actor to have their case brought before a Swedish court but nevertheless chooses to deliberately circumscribe the entire Swedish judicial system when it suits one's political purposes? Here is our position that decision-makers in general and the government in particular do well to wait for the possibility of correcting decisions taken until the person who might feel that they have been adversely affected by them has been able to have their case brought before the Swedish court in accordance with the applicable regulations. In the present case, and perhaps not least in future cases, the government should therefore wait to submit its lists and decisions and leave the continuing right of decision to the Commission until the Supreme Administrative Court has finally been able to decide on any case of judicial review submitted to them within a reasonable period of time. In this way, the government does not, as it is now, place Sweden in a situation where it is extradited to the good will of outsiders in order to be able to comply with a court ruling, regardless of what it is and on what grounds. It is not for the government or anyone else to anticipate or review the decisions of our courts. I hope we can at least agree on that.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-412	Mr President, I would like to It's time for the chapter that says, "The Government's responsibility for administration." As many others here have been dealing with these issues, I intended to dive only into an issue that has led to an enormous amount of debate over the last few years. It's about the assistance allowance. The notification concerns whether the Government has interfered with the application of the legislation on assistance compensation by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. This applies in particular to the wording of a letter of regulation to Försäkringskassan which, by some, could be interpreted as meaning that Försäkringskassan has been commissioned to reduce the number of hours to individuals in breach of applicable law. The KU states in the report that it is probably unlikely that this was the intention of the government. At the same time, however, we believe that it is not possible to exclude the possibility that assessments in individual cases could be affected. At the same time, we note that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency considered in its annual report that the objective of the assistance allowance was partially met, inter alia, because the quality of the management had been increased and the controls had improved. The Social Insurance Agency also described that making late payments to the beneficiaries could improve the quality and reduce the number of recoveries. Thus, the review does not reveal that the objective of breaking the number of hours in the assistance allowance would have been conditional on measures taken by the Social Insurance Agency which are contrary to the legislation on assistance compensation. During the time we prepared the case, there were some concerns on the part of the committee to highlight in parallel the various judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court which could also have affected individual cases. There we felt that our time was not sufficient for a deeper examination. Nevertheless, I think it deserves to be highlighted in the debate, as this too may have contributed to some of the changes in the assessments.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-419	Mr President, I would like to I was going to talk about the question of assistance compensation, the LSS, in the next case. I would now like to mention a little bit about the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of the Security Council campaign – the digital workspace where there was no ongoing record keeping. As a result, the documents were registered only a year later, one year after the Security Council campaign had ended and only when Dagens Nyheter had asked the Ministry for Foreign Affairs questions about the documents. This shows repeated shortcomings on the part of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and therefore the criticism that the KU is making against the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is quite sharp in this regard. Another point where the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are criticised is the speech points that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs submitted after the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report and which went out to Swedish embassies with comments on the security policy analysis that the Defence Committee had done. The KU points out that what was sent out to the embassies from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs created uncertainty as to how to interpret the line. Different ministers had said different things in themselves, but precisely this that the Defence Committee's report was a preparation document did not really come out. Here there were a lot of misunderstandings, and this is something that the Constitutional Committee is therefore criticising. I would like to raise a matter which in itself does not lead to criticism of the KU. This is about the appointment of Thomas Bodström as County Governor. He was appointed County Governor in Stockholm County in August 2017, but the appointment was withdrawn because the irregularities in Allra's premium pension funds had become more noticed after Bodström had been appointed. In October 2017, the government withdrew the appointment. The KU asked questions to the Government Office about this, and what may be said was a bit remarkable is that the Government Office then replied that it was the same basis for the recall as the one they had when making the decision to appoint Bodström. It sounds remarkable, and the conclusion is that the government should have realised from the beginning that Bodström should not have been appointed County Governor in Stockholm.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-425	Mr President, I would like to So we are now in the section on the handling of certain government matters. I will comment only on a few of these. As I said in the general section, much is about this about information in different ways. We have examined, among other things, how, or rather whether, the government acted when the Migration Agency in autumn 2015 announced that the number of asylum seekers looked to be more than what the work had previously thought. We have not been able to obtain precise information to the government when it came to clear and detailed information, but it should have been at least at the beginning of September. The KU notes that the managing authorities of course have a responsibility to provide relevant and up-to-date information to the government regarding major and important events and things on which the government must act. But the government itself also has a responsibility to ask for up-to-date information in order to be able to take action. When situations change and when big things pop up in the outside world, the government has every opportunity to ask for clearer and more up-to-date information in order to be able to act quickly and properly. The KU notes, as previous investigations have also done, that the government did not act quickly enough to obtain up-to-date information on the matter. In the general part of the debate today, I briefly highlighted the issue of handling documents within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I had intended to come back to it a little bit during this part, but I note that Mrs Klackenberg has described the matter in an excellent way. I fully share his assessment of the matter and therefore intend to refrain from further comments here and now. I shall now return to talking about information. I mentioned that sometimes I can get the feeling that you want to misunderstand a little bit. So I have almost understood the situation regarding the Swedish security situation and the Swedish defence policy line. Regarding statements on this matter, the KU has noted that Prime Minister Stefan Lövven, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist's statements differ in part. They have not said exactly the same things, but we have also seen that it is still within the framework that the government has previously had and within what the Riksdag has said. According to the KU, there must be room to adapt and nuance statements from different situations. However, the KU also says that it is important to coordinate its statements so as to reduce the risk of misunderstandings. Here, however, I do believe that we sometimes want to see the small differences between statements – and this small change of words probably means something else- because we know that there has been a lot of discussion about the words in this context. It is, of course, even more important for the government to look at how to make a statement. The government knows that this is an issue in which the political parties view things differently and where they will want to find things that are not quite right. Then it is absolutely excellent if it is properly coordinated within the government.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-435	Mr President, I would like to I am one of those who think it is important that we have a lively political debate with many parties and many different views that are being broken against each other. But there is also something beautiful about this in the KU, that a Left Partyist goes up and deletes part of his speech in favour of what a Moderate has said. I will do the same, also with reference to Dag Klackenberg's speech and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents. I think that, as always, it was well worded and definitely described the process that we have had in committee. However, I still have two points on my list that I would like to mention, although they are not news either. This concerns the government's information management during the autumn 2015 reception of refugees and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' speeches on the Swedish Defence Committee's report. We can sum up both cases by saying that it is important what the government actually does and just as important how to communicate what you do, what you think and why. It was important, for example, what the then Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman said during a Question Time in the House in 2017 about what information the government had about the expected number of refugees to Sweden. Both the Swedish National Audit Office and a special investigation have examined the government's preparations for and actions during the refugee crisis in the autumn of 2015. According to the report of the Swedish National Audit Office and the report of the Special Investigator, there was already information in the Government Office in late summer 2015 that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden would be significantly higher than previously thought. If this information had been passed on within the Government Office or to other authorities, Sweden's readiness to manage the large refugee flows according to the notifier could have been higher. The notifier also questions why information on the presence of the current information in the Government Office was not submitted to the Constitutional Committee already in connection with the review case in spring 2016. Here the KU concluded that the government did not act quickly and proactively enough, even though we have a very strong understanding of the somewhat chaotic situation in which we all found ourselves in 2015-2016 in terms of the number of refugees and asylum seekers who came to our country. The information was there, but it wasn't passed on. This is apparently a recurring problem within the Government Office. In addition, during Question Time, the Minister of the Interior said that the number of refugees and asylum seekers would not increase for Sweden, as the KU says, was not entirely consistent with what has emerged from the review. We can all agree to that. As regards the reviews of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' speeches on the Defence Committee's report and statements on the Swedish security situation and the Swedish defence policy line, we must note that the hearings quickly became a semantics competition, where the formulations in the statements by Foreign Minister Wallström, the Minister for Defence, the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Defence Committee were weighed against each other and on a gold scale. Of course, there is sometimes, as the previous speaker said, a tendency to want to misunderstand and read things, but that is precisely why it is incredibly important that we all express ourselves quite correctly and objectively. This applies especially to experienced ministers, who can communicate in a way that can lead to confusion about Sweden's positions and positions. This applies in particular to such important matters as foreign and defence issues. While we all understand, of course, that ministers must have the opportunity to nuance themselves and, to some extent, to be human, it is of the utmost importance that a minister should not go out with statements that could confuse the debate. We therefore note that the content of the points of speech has been perceived as unclear when it comes to the description of the Swedish Defence Committee's assessment of military threats to Sweden. In this part, we stress once again the importance of saying points in their content being formulated in such a way that they do not lead to misunderstandings or give rise to conflicting interpretations.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-448	Mr President, I would like to We're on chapter two. It is about dealing with government matters, and there are a few aspects here that I would like to highlight. Much has already been said – Dag Klackenberg has been mentioned by name, and I can support it. Regarding the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of the Security Council campaign, the KU stated that the substantial backlog in the Ministry's records was not acceptable; lastly, this was said in spring 2017. In the present case, it was an examination that took place on 17 November 2017, i.e. more than a year after the case had been closed at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It is too much time, both in registration and in record keeping, and we find in the KU that it conflicts with the principle of public access to documents and with the basic aim of the regulatory framework to guarantee public access to public documents. We write in the KU that it is clear that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of the document in question was not compatible with the current regulations for the registration and registration of public documents. In the light of the previous review, which ended just over five months before the document was registered, the management of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs appears remarkable. For this, the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot escape responsibility. I want to go on and talk about the meaning of words and words. The question is whether an armed attack on Sweden is still unlikely or, in the words of the Swedish Defence Committee, whether an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. The discrepancy that is definitely contained in the wording, and also to some extent in the very sense, has had reason to take a position on it. In connection with the presentation of the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report on December 20, 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs developed and sent the foreign authorities speaking points under the ministries, i.e. embassies and the like. The Constitutional Committee notes that the investigation shows that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly transmits these points to the foreign authorities and that these points serve as a basis for questions in conversations in the locality where you are stationed. The committee has no objection to this procedure, but we would like to stress the importance of the content of the points being correct, reliable, clear and well-controlled. The content of the spokespersons has been perceived as unclear when it comes to the description of the Swedish Defence Committee's assessment of military threats to Sweden. In this part, the committee would like to stress the need for points of order to be worded in such a way that they do not lead to misunderstandings or give rise to conflicting interpretations. We note that foreign policy differs somewhat from other policies. Among other things, the Foreign Minister's statement must be regarded as having special authority in relation to the government's position on a foreign policy issue. A statement that is perceived to be contrary to the government's official stance may create confusion and a risk of complications. This applies, in particular, to relations with another State. Specific demands must therefore be made, according to the KU, for statements made by the Minister responsible for foreign policy. In foreign policy there are so-called performanceative statements, that is, statements which in their pronouncement create a new reality to relate to and declare the country's position or approach to something. The statements concern both Swedish foreign policy and defence and security policy, and in the present case they differ in part. The KU writes that the recent statements in the debate have obviously been misunderstood and perceived as contradictory. In the light of the specific demands made for statements in the field in question, the KU stresses the importance of the representatives of the Government – in this case the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs – coordinating their statements to ensure that the wording used does not lead to misunderstandings or give rise to conflicting interpretations.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-458	Mr President, I would like to It was obvious that I was removing myself from the debate. What I was going to talk about is precisely the statements and the different nuances in connection with the Defence Committee's report. I think it is a somewhat complicated issue, Mr President. It should be remembered that the Defence Committee's report does not automatically constitute a new Swedish foreign policy. It's a bit of a matter of remembering that. Then it may also be the case that the Minister of State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may not be divisible when a representative committee makes a position can communicate it as the country's new foreign policy or as a new assessment of the conditions. I think it is quite important to emphasise that. It must also be noted that the statements do not conflict with each other. On the other hand, the Defence Committee has refrained from making a probability assessment in its positions, which in the long run may lead to a different policy being expressed. However, I wondered what reaction it had been – possibly there would have been a KU notification – if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had immediately, depending on the Swedish Defence Committee's report, sent out a new Swedish foreign policy line in the assessment of the security situation. Perhaps it would have caused a bit of attention also if a parliamentary inquiry automatically formulated Swedish politics at once. So I think we need to have a little bit of caution when we move on to these lands. I must also admit that this seems a little unnecessary. If the ministers concerned had synchronised their statements with each other a little more, the question would not have arisen. I think there is reason to point that out. It's an unnecessary discussion. When the committee has tried to find out whether this has affected something in foreign relations when it comes to where Sweden stands and what Sweden thinks has not seemed to have caused much confusion in other countries either. On the other hand, it seems very obvious that this has become a big splash in the Swedish safety policy duck pond.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-463	Mr President, I would like to It was a particularly good thing that Annicka Engblom came up in the speaker's chair after Hans Ekström. She has spent two thirds of her working life in this defence policy and security policy duck pond and may well have a slightly different view of the importance of these issues. Mr President, I would like to With regard to Chapter 2 of this year's review report on the handling of certain government matters, I would like to draw attention to two notifications which the Constitutional Committee has chosen to deal with. That is what I intend to do in the debate. Like my women's representatives, I had intended to start with a small turn in the audit case on the Foreign Affairs Security Council campaign. I was responsible for it during the previous Parliamentary Session, when we examined the content of it and whether it had been done properly or not. My equilibrist colleague, however, has so eloquently described this in an excellent way, and I am therefore moving on to what is about the Defence Committee's report and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' speeches to their missions and the debacle that arose, I will say, at the People's and Defence Security Conference in Sälen at the beginning of the year. I, too, was present and could see what happened and was cited in this, as Ekström calls it, duck dust. It is therefore about the Swedish Defence Committee's interim report, which presented s s last autumn, and above all about the change in the motivation regarding the threat picture against Sweden. Previously it had been expressed as follows: a single military armed attack directly against Sweden is still unlikely. The defence committee had landed in a different formulation, namely: ..................................................... It is clear that the negotiations and the transparency that have been made in the interim report – which, I would like to emphasise, is an interim report and not a complete one and, as has been pointed out earlier, does not alter the current security policy line – definitely underlines the increasingly serious state of defence and security policy. This has been washed, supported and wet by the Parliament's eight parties, seven of which support the formulation. Words have been weighed on a gold scale, as is done in such contexts. The defence committee is not just any group – or that group, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs unfortunately called it a little disrespectful at the Sälen Conference in January – but it is of great importance. It is followed both internally and by external stakeholders on the issues and is absolutely something to which importance is attached. As you know, Sweden is militaryly non-aligned, Mr President, but not neutral in this way. We have a lot of different collaborations, especially with NATO, which we have made closer to us during this parliamentary term, which is very positive. It is clear that there is an ongoing debate about where Sweden is going. We have a geopolitically important position, and we have collaborations with many different countries within different collaborations. One has a great interest in what Sweden ties up with in different ways. It was perceived that a tightening up had taken place and that at the same time, at the same time, there was no consensus between the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister – followed by the Minister for Defence, whom I believe was quite well trying to save the situation. The Chairman of the Defence Committee was also present and caught up. It is incredibly important that there should be a dialogue on foreign and security policy, and that was not the case in this case. Mr President, I would like to Concepts such as "fissures" and "semantics" have been involved in the discussion, but I think I want to make it a little more serious than that. It's not just a matter of word fissure. We have raised this in committee in the past with the importance of guarding our words precisely in the field of diplomacy and defence and security policy, with reference to the expression. It is about saying by doing, that is to say that what the Foreign Minister and Prime Minister say can also become Sweden's policy and that one must therefore be extra careful in these cases. I do not intend, as the previous speaker, Mr Ekström, to devote myself to what has become a new favourite expression for me, namely counterfactual history descriptions, that is, what could have been the case, but to what the Constitutional Committee states in its position. We stress the importance of the content of speeches and statements by government representatives being so worded that they do not lead to misunderstandings or give rise to conflicting interpretations. This applies in particular to diplomacy and defence and security policy. Mr President, I would like to Since this is my last speech for this Parliamentary Session, it is now my turn to extend warm, heartfelt and heartfelt thanks to my parliamentary colleagues in the Constitutional Committee. It has been a real pleasure, and it has been a fantastic atmosphere. We have found constructiveness and produced eloquence, laughter and tense discussions. It has been intellectually stimulating to spend these four years with you on the issues that form the foundation of democracy. For that I would like to thank the committee very much and especially not only President Norlén and Vice-President von Sydow, but also the Parliament's sharpest office – that is the office of the Constitutional Committee, by the way. Without you, we would have remained plain in working on our conclusions. Warm thanks and have a really happy summer! I'll see you in the election campaign!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-474	Mr President, I would like to Several things have been said in this debate before me, and I thought I would take the opportunity to go into a little bit of detail on a dossier. It is investigation case 4 which concerns the government's handling of information during the refugee crisis and in particular information during the early months of the refugee crisis, i.e. during the summer and early autumn. The review is also about a statement made by Anders Ygeman in this House. I will come back to that at the end of my speech. The Constitutional Committee has already examined the refugee crisis as such at one time, in 2016, but has now done so again. Above all, we have done so because information has been added since then, especially in the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, but much necessary information has also been added in an investigation conducted by the Government's special investigators. Already in 2014, much more asylum seekers came to Sweden than normal. At that time, about 10 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden every month during the autumn. Every quarter, the Finnish Immigration Service makes a forecast of how many asylum seekers will come in order for the government and the authorities to have something to relate to, make calculations on, prepare for and be able to take the necessary steps ahead. In fact, the forecast made by the Finnish Immigration Service in July 2015, in this review called the July forecast, was that the reception would decrease in relation to 2014. It didn't really happen. From the Finnish Immigration Service's annual report, KU has been able to conclude that the Migration Agency itself already in August, just a few weeks after it was released, realized that the forecast was incorrect. Unfortunately, precisely when the government was given that information, we have not been able to establish it, but we know that it was given at least at the beginning of September. What we also know is that the Migration Agency every week makes reports to the government that are sent over via email showing both the outcome, i.e. how many people have applied for asylum in Sweden in the past week, and makes a forecast for how you think it will be in the coming weeks. In the weekly reports, the outcome of the J uli forecast already deviated in August. In September, the weekly reports stated that there were 24,300 people instead of the approximately 7,000 people they thought would arrive. So this information was given to the government. That's good. They also had contact with the Director-General of the Finnish Immigration Service several times during September. The Finnish Immigration Service informed that this increase was greater than expected and that there was a risk of a lack of capacity. We have been able to conclude with this that the government was given sufficient information. That's not the problem. The conclusions that the KU has been able to draw, and which are supported in particular by the review carried out by the government's special investigators, are that the government did not act quickly enough after receiving that information. You got the information, but you didn't react fast enough. It was not possible to identify the changed migration until it was a fact. This could not be predicted well enough. Furthermore, information on the sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers was not passed on to the Government Office or to the relevant authorities. According to a unanimous KU and also the special investigator, it is not unreasonable to assume that the preparedness would have been higher at the beginning of autumn if the knowledge had been disseminated that the July forecast was incorrect. If one had been more proactive in one's approach, the overall picture at the beginning of the autumn would in any case probably not have been that one had assumed a reduction in migration. This is a big deal. Above all, it plays a major role for our authorities and municipalities and their readiness to deal with a difficult situation. It also plays a major role for us ordinary citizens and for us in the Riksdag in terms of how we should make our decisions and how we opposition politicians should be able to act and make proposals in a correct way. It also plays a major role in how the general public can form an idea of what is happening in Sweden and what needs to be done in our political environment. In conclusion, I would like to say that the then Minister for the Interior, Anders Ygeman, has stood in this House and said that the information received by the government meant that the number of asylum seekers to Europe increased, not that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden would increase. The committee notes that that statement is not entirely consistent with what we have been informed of. That is simply not true, if you are to speak plainly. Because the government got information. Why Ygeman said that, I don't want to speculate, but I'd be happy to pass that question on to you who listens.
i-VNS4mqV39GE5RHRvKs63Te	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners! The examination of the notifications submitted to the Constitutional Committee gives rise to a number of different approaches and reflections. We have heard that in the debate today. In the review report, in Chapter 3, we have looked at certain issues relating to the government's responsibility for administration. I would like to highlight two of the notifications. One is about Blekinge University of Technology and the Minister's handling of the issue of its campus. The second concerns Karolinska Institutet's branch in Hong Kong. A large financial donation was made to enable a branch to be established there. In both cases, which are very different in substance, it becomes clear how important the division of responsibilities and roles is. If it becomes unclear in any way, governance becomes more difficult and responsibilities become unclear. Why can it be difficult? Well, there can be clear regulations in regulations, i.e. laws, regulations and regulations, in the matter. There may also be so-called grey areas or other ambiguities, for example when a minister makes a general statement on various issues. It can be interpreted in different ways, which has happened precisely in the question of campuses at Blekinge University of Technology. The Minister for Higher Education, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, was asked by a journalist in the journal University teacher. She expressed her general opinion that there should be good opportunities to live and work throughout the country, including access to high-quality higher education. Many understood that the minister took a position on the substance of the matter that campuses in Karlshamn should not be coordinated with campuses in Karlskrona. But there is no government decision on this very issue. At the hearing of the Minister for Karolinska Institutet's branch in Hong Kong, she was clear about the importance of the institutions themselves being responsible for the activities they carry out and that this is particularly important in terms of research. The government should not interfere in how the research is conducted. I believe that everyone here agrees with the importance of freedom of research and the importance of international cooperation and cooperation. In the answers we received from the Minister in the public hearing, it was also clear that it is the principal who has the greatest responsibility. But there is also a board for every university and university, and for Karolinska Institutet, Lars Leijonborg was chairman of the board. Karolinska Institutet has a regulation for the reception of donations. But there is no provision that generally regulates an authority's ability to operate abroad, as the Swedish National Audit Office has also assessed. It is not a new phenomenon to accept donations, and international cooperation is common in the academic world. However, a clear national regulatory framework is lacking. It can therefore be seen as a grey area. What the Constitutional Committee wants to send is that it would have been good if guidance and clarity could have been created in the government dialogues that still existed between Karolinska Institutet and the Ministry. This also applies to the matter of Blekinge University of Technology and the location of its campus. It would have been good if informal contacts between the department, the principal and the university board had been even more focused on dialogue and information. I am quite new to the Constitutional Committee. I can't tell you soon, but I've been inside for a few months. I am very impressed by the work we have all done in the KU and by the way in which the rest of you have received me. I was there last fall when all the reports came in. I then served as a replacement for Jonas Gunnarsson, who was on parental leave. Then I was home for a few weeks and was suddenly called in again, after Berit Högman was appointed governor. You Members have guided me in a wonderful way. It has made me safe to be the Member I have now been on the committee. It is not only you who have helped me; I am also very impressed by the work of the office. This applies to the whole administration that supports us Members. A big and warm thank you for that! If I happen to come back to Parliament after the next election, I think I should wish to be in the KU.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-498	Mr President, I would like to The KU's review should always be directed at the Minister. We have said that several times now. However, during the review, we have often come into discussions about the secretaries of state and their role. Although we should not put all responsibility on the state secretaries, they are, in any case, the ministers' closest employees. In many matters, we have discussed whether we should write or even name the Secretary of State in question. In some cases we have done the same. The State Secretary will contribute to the success of the Government and often does so. However, the review has shown that in some cases the secretaries of state have also contributed to the failures of the ministers. It is easy to see that more robust and forward action by the secretaries of state could have saved the ministers from getting into the sermons they have ended up in. A State Secretary should be administratively skilled, a good budget negotiator – not least the internal budget – and a very good dialogue partner in the so-called government dialogue. These are three important tasks for a State Secretary. If I am to express myself drastically, it can be described as if the Government is to be the beautiful furniture in the room, the Secretary of State is to be the wallpaper. If there is no wallpaper, then you should discover that there is no wallpaper, but if there is one, you should not think about it. It's a good Secretary of State. The prime task of the State Secretary is to dare to stand for what is in English called the early warning system, i.e. to be a little ahead of, to hear, feel and talk to employees and also to dare to go to the Government and announce whether it is going beyond control. I had the privilege of being the head of expedition for Anna Lindh. One time when we were chatting about other things, she told us that she had felt twice during her political career that there was a risk of resignation – it was a few years before she was murdered. One time it was about the tunnel under Hallandsåsen, and the other time it was about the so-called South Africa affair. Then what did she do as a minister? Well, she realized it was a matter of acting quickly. She took the initiative and command over developments and at least didn't have to resign. For a minister of state, it is simply a matter of having a State Secretary around him who makes it possible to reap political success. Emma Lennartsson, Ann Linde, Erik Bromander and Annika Söder all have it in common that they could have made life much easier for their ministers. They could have ensured that the ministers would not end up in the situation they are now in. This means that the election of the State Secretary will be a delicate task. I will come back to that. As regards, for example, the KI case that wants to establish a branch in Hong Kong, the Ministry of Finance has been specifically asked for guidance and also urged by the Swedish National Audit Office to do so. It has been reminded several times, but it is not really the Government's fault that nothing is happening. But it's her responsibility that it doesn't get done. The responsibility lies, of course, with the State Secretary who would have kept the case register in order. The Secretary of State should have pointed out that the matter is pending and that something should be done. I don't think it can be expressed more easily than that. There's a saying that hell is supposed to be the director of the theater. A minister who does not choose a skilled state secretary could say that the hell should be a minister, if you at the department do not have an administration that works. Everyone thanks everyone. That's what we did at the kindergarten where I was a slave picker and leaver. Everyone would thank everyone there at this time of year. Six months later, everyone would thank everyone and everyone would become lucia. But I would also like to thank everyone for the time in the KU. Even if I didn't become lucia, it's been a great time. I sat as a student in the gallery and listened to the decharge debate – not many people sat in the gallery, I can tell you. Then I have taught and examined public law and state law. I have discussed the role of the KU in seminars. I have even attended a seminar in Greifswald and met German law students. They did not really trust that the Swedish system would work, because they thought it would be party political bickering. I think we've shown it's worked. Then I have been questioned by the KU a number of times. I can tell you that it's stressful. You can think about it sometime. It is not easy to have 17 tagged people against them who also nowadays send notes in the form of text messages and receive support, while the poor government sits alone with a terrified expedition manager next to them. When we questioned the Prime Minister, I thought that he, the poor man, would sit far down and the rest of us would sit high up. I also got to sit lower and everyone looked down at me. I think it could be a reform to think about, that the level should be more even. It's a gift. But at least it was a very good experience that gave me respect for the whole system. As a member of the KU, I have been involved in drawing up a report and thus doing my last work here. The circle is closed and for that I would like to thank you, Mr President.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-512	Mr President, I would like to It follows from the form of government that the government governs the Reich and that it is accountable to the Riksdag. It follows from the form of government that under the government are government administrative authorities that are not government authorities under the Riksdag. It follows that the authorities are, in principle, obliged to comply with the general rules and directives for specific cases communicated by the Government. It is also stipulated that no authority may decide how, in a particular case, an administrative authority shall decide on a matter relating to the exercise of authority against an individual or against a municipality or concerning the application of law. For government decisions, at least five ministers must be present. A minister must not, on his own, order an authority to take a certain decision. Why this rehearsal in administrative law? Because now is the time to talk about the government's responsibility for administration. I will not touch on all of the committee's matters, but I will limit myself to a few. KU has examined whether Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson has acted in such a way that she informally influenced the decision-making process at Blekinge University of Technology and thereby circumvented the ban on ministerial government. The vice-chancellor at the university has announced that he intends to resign prematurely. The reason is stated to be a mark against the minister because she had meddled in questions about campuses at the university. The review has revealed that the Minister's Secretary of State has at an early stage marked against the considerations on campus that Blekinge University of Technology had begun. In two calls by telephone with the Vice-Chancellor in May, the Secretary of State has expressed that it may be difficult and impossible for the university to continue to pursue the matter for political reasons with regard to the upcoming election movement. The State Secretary can thus be considered to have expressed that it was not the government's will that the university should continue to pursue the issue. This is therefore an indirect government of ministers and is to be regarded as directly inappropriate. The committee also notes that the Secretary of State's statements came at a stage in which no analysis of the issue of the merger of campuses was actually ever made. Thus neither Blekinge University of Technology nor the government received any factual basis for any decision. The KU notes that the Vice-Chancellor stated that, in consultation with the Chairman of the Board on 22 May, he decided to cancel the merger and that the Vice-Chancellor had requested his resignation. The KU has also found that the government's response during the review has not been complete. If the committee had not asked questions also to the university in the current examination, the committee's conclusion could in all likelihood be quite different. There has also been a lack of documentation from the contacts between the Secretary of State and the University, which has made it difficult for the committee to clarify what has been done in the contacts. Of course, that must not happen. The Helene Hellmark Knutsson Government is also relevant to another matter that the committee has examined, namely the matter of Karolinska Institutet and its branch in Hong Kong. In short, Karolinska has received a donation of USD 50 million to establish a research branch. One of the conditions was for KI to conduct research activities in Hong Kong with local staff and seconded personnel from KI. To spice up the matter somewhat, KI had hired the son of the Head of Government in Hong Kong as a postdoc just before the signing of the donation letter. In addition, according to media data, the donation sum comes from a Hong Kong Chinese businessman who is active in a company whose former CEO, the donor's father, is convicted of corruption and money laundering. This is, to say the least, a harrow. The legal situation regarding the establishment of operations abroad by Swedish administrative authorities is not clear. KU therefore sought clarification from the government and also ordered its own investigation pending the government's legal investigation. The Swedish National Audit Office, which wrote a report on the donation and could not decide for itself whether KI had the formal right to conduct the activities it intended to establish in Hong Kong, recommended KI to continue its efforts to obtain a clear authorisation from the government in the matter of establishing and operating the operation. The Government's decision was delayed, and when the decision that the Government did not intend to take any action was made in July 2016, it was stated as a reason for the decision that the issues in KI's request were not issues that the Government had to examine but that it was the Authority itself that was responsible for the activities carried out in accordance with the current regulations and decisions. The committee would like to point out that it is the government's task to rule the kingdom, and it is accountable to the Riksdag even when the legal situation for activities carried out within the state administration is perceived as unclear. The government's governing function includes guiding and clarifying matters that the authorities have judged to be of such a nature that they cannot be clarified at the level of authorities. In the present case, the Government is responsible for the absence of such clarification. I am going from a case where there was no clarification to a case where perhaps it was clear what the government wanted from its authority. The regulations for 2016 provided the Social Insurance Agency with the following instructions: ..................................................... The question then is whether the wording can be considered to be so precise and detailed in terms of the administration that it enters into the rules of government governing the independence of the administration. The authorities are governed by the Government and are in principle obliged to comply with the general regulations and directives for specific cases communicated by the Government. This results, among other things, from the fact that it is the government that has the task of ruling the kingdom. The government's right to communicate instructions to the authorities is limited by the form of government in two respects. Firstly, the government is obviously bound by the law in force and must not issue directives to the authorities in breach of this. Secondly, the government – with which I opened my speech – must not decide how an administrative authority should decide in a specific case on a matter concerning the exercise of authority against individuals or on the application of law. The government controls its authorities through, among other things, regulatory letters. With a regulatory letter, the Government can specify its governance in the form of objectives and specific tasks for the authorities. The regulatory letters must, of course, comply with the applicable law. The wording of helping to break down the number of hours was the subject of a debate and was interpreted by some as the task of the Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of hours to individuals in violation of what actually applies. Although this is not the intention of the government – nor is it consistent with fundamental principles of what constitutes a source of law in the course of enforcement – it cannot be excluded that wording of this kind may, by extension, lead to incorrect assessments in individual cases. However, this does not seem to have happened in this case. Since 2017, the wording has also been removed and reworded. The committee has considered this to have advantages. My view is that the accuracy of the KU's wording is something that can also be used by the government in the future.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-539	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the debate on the previous dossier, I intend to raise the issue of the Social Insurance Agency and the decision of the Government on LSS, the Special Assistance Act. This is a report that was made to the Constitutional Committee because the government decided in two budgets that it would ensure that development is broken one against higher costs for the LSS. This is, of course, a somewhat tricky decision; it is a law of rights, which means that it is the needs that should control the number of hours and the costs of LSS. It is not a political decision. Budget decisions cannot be guided by the way the government has done in two budgets. As a result, as has been shown in a great deal of reportage, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency made reductions in LSS operations in a way that must be perceived to be contrary to rights law. The aim was to keep the budget and reduce costs. The Constitutional Committee's assessment is that the budget decision may have led to incorrect assessments in individual cases with the wording decided by the government in two budgets. At the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that the government has made an amendment in the last budget which it considers acceptable in relation to the rules that LSS provides as a right law. I would also like to say a few words about the Karolinska Institute and its receipt of a donation and establishment of a branch in Hong Kong. The Constitutional Committee held a hearing by Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson on KI's establishment of this branch and receipt of the USD 50 million donation from a Chinese businessman. After the hearing, the Constitutional Committee also asked the former Vice-Chancellor of Karolinska Institutet, Anders Hamsten, about the donation and establishment of the branch. The problem was that the Ministry of Education had received a question from Karolinska Institutet about the receipt of the donation and establishment of this branch in Hong Kong. But the government never gave any information but said that Karolinska Institutet itself had to decide both on the receipt of the donation and on the possible establishment of the branch. The fact that this happened is, in my opinion, due to the fact that, at first, the Ministry of Education was very positive about the receipt of the donation and the establishment of the branch there were extensive writings that the donation money came from money that was added due to corruption. As I understand it, the government did not want to take a position on the donation or establishment. The Constitutional Committee believes that Karolinska Institutet should have been informed by the government whether or not this branch could be set up. The KU criticises the Government for the fact that Karolinska Institutet was not told by the government whether it was able to establish the branch in Hong Kong.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-545	Mr President, I would like to In my introduction to the general section, I indicated that sometimes the government does wrong however it does. There's always someone who's unhappy. You always risk a report. I thought it was a little bit like being a teenage parent. You get up in the morning and you breathe and you've already done the wrong thing. In some cases here, I think of the government as the parent of the teenager. I think Karolinska Institutet is one of those. The authorities will be on their own. They have directives. They've brought a lot of things with them. They carry regulatory letters, instructions and so on and will work in this process. But then sometimes they don't know what to do. Then they come home and ask, and then it is actually the parent's duty to answer. What's it like to just leave them? It is clear that you should have a reply when you come from Karolinska Institutet and don't really know how to do it: There are no proper rules here – we need help! Then it is good that the KU can come in and say that the government actually has to respond properly when authorities ask for guidance. It is also part of the government's task. But sometimes the government interferes too soon. I will be talking about exactly the same matters as several previous speakers. As far as Blekinge University of Technology is concerned, the comments and opinions of the Secretary of State were too controlling and far-reaching. Then one can regret that the authority listened to them very quickly. It would not have been bad if the authority had nevertheless looked further at the issue and made an investigation basis to be able to take a proper stand on the matter. That would have been possible, too. But the Secretary of State was far too clear. It didn't go well. Then I have to comment on the LSS case. We have not seen that the government's statement would be about wanting the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to depart from the legislation – of course not! I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. That's not what you've been meant to do. It is written that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will help to break the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. In the future, it is stated that the Social Insurance Agency must also ensure good control to counteract over-exploitation. This can, of course, be interpreted as two different things and that the good control of over-exploitation is what is involved in cheating. The second is about something else, to break the trend in the number of hours in assistance payments in some way. Such a wording can be misunderstood. It's a good thing it's been removed. If you want the agency to work against cheating, sometimes you should say just that. Then it may be easier to understand, and there may be less chance of misunderstanding. It is good that the government has moved on in it and now expresses itself in a different way. Let us hope that it will continue to do so.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-553	Mr President, I would like to It is not without beginning to feel that we have now been sitting in the Chamber for a number of hours. At least I think I'm on the right thing to do. There are some questions about the government's responsibility for administration. Under this heading, I will focus only on one dossier. Little surprising to the House is the examination of whether the government has interfered with the application by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency of the legislation on assistance compensation, LSS, in an improper manner. I do so despite the fact that this has also been mentioned exemplaryly by the previous speaker. Over the past year, we suddenly saw individuals and their families, who, in order to lead a decent life, had assistance assistance, suddenly saw their assistance being withdrawn. Many are the stories I've been told. I'm sure many of us have had to do that. They made me very faint about how we as a welfare society, which should be characterized by the idea of everyone's equal rights and opportunities, betrayed those who need us most. What every normally found human being would consider as vital contributions, such as help with food, hyg ien and the possibility of participation in society, was suddenly no longer considered a social matter, but something the families most often had to solve best they could. In the 2016 regulatory letter, where the government specified its governance of the agency, it stated that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency would contribute to breaking the development of the number of hours within the assistance compensation and that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency would also ensure a good control to counteract over-utilisation. It is precisely in this wording that we have a part of the problem. The wording of helping to break down the number of hours was also the subject of a heated debate. It has been interpreted by some as meaning that the Social Insurance Agency was tasked with reducing the number of hours to individuals in breach of applicable law. Although this is not the intention of the government, which we have not been able to demonstrate, it cannot be ruled out that the wording opened up to the risk of incorrect assessments being made in individual cases. According to the Government Office, the mission was not linked to the application of provisions on the right to assistance compensation, but aimed at increasing the control of assistance compensation in order to prevent and detect undue payments. In its annual report for 2016, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency assessed that the objective of the assistance allowance was partly met, partly because of the increased quality of the treatment and the improvement in the role of the employer. Thus, the review has not revealed that the objective of breaking the trend in the number of hours of assistance compensation has provided for measures by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency which are contrary to the legislation on assistance compensation, LSS. We can note that the government has removed the wording in the regulations for 2017 and 2018 to break the development of the number of hours within the assistance compensation. Instead, it states that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must ensure good control to counter over-exploitation and crime with a particular focus on increasing hourly trends. The purpose of the wording is certainly to clarify the link between the evolution of hours and the importance of ensuring good control. The committee can therefore, from the points of view that it has to take into account, see the benefits of the new wording, and that is mildly put. Of course, I fully agree with that. Let me also make it very clear that the rights legislation, the LSS, which the Liberals have always vindicated in particular, will continue to monitor and debate. Of course, cheating should always be prosecuted. But the right to participation and the conditions for a good life, regardless of disability or not, are inviolable.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-564	Mr President, I would like to This chapter deals with the government's responsibility for administration. I would like to highlight three of the issues in the chapter. The first concerns the campus issue with regard to Blekinge University of Technology. There we have the task that the Secretary of State has expressed during telephone calls with the Vice-Chancellor on 15 and 18 May that it may be difficult for the university to continue to pursue the issue for political reasons or impossible to pursue the matter with regard to the election year, i.e.: The Secretary of State may be considered to have expressed that it was not the government's will that the university should continue to pursue the campus issue in Blekinge. In view of the fact that the government is directing its authorities through collective government decisions, action must be considered inappropriate and what is popularly known as ministerial government. The KU would also stress the importance of ensuring that the committee receives the fullest possible response from the Government Office to the committee's questions. The committee notes that if the committee had not asked questions to the university in the current examination, the committee's conclusion would in all likelihood have been quite different. In the present case, there is also no documentation from the contacts between the Secretary of State and the University, which made the investigation more difficult. This is the case with the LSS. The Christian Democrats, too, have a heart on this issue like many others. The regulations for 2016 stated that Försäkringskassan would contribute to breaking the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. It was also stated that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency would also ensure good control to counter over-exploitation. The wording of helping to break down the number of hours was debated and interpreted by some as meaning that the Social Insurance Agency has been commissioned to reduce the number of hours to individuals in violation of applicable law. We are landing in the KU because it is not possible to rule out the possibility that wording of this kind may, in the long run, lead to incorrect assessments in individual cases. That's not good. We would also like to highlight the fact that the Government has removed the wording of breaking the number of hours within the assistance compensation in its regulations for 2017 and 2018. Instead, it states that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must ensure good control to counteract over-use and criminal use with a particular focus on increasing hourly development. Then, in KU languages, we write that the committee sees advantages in the new wording. That's the understatement of the day, isn't it? I would also like to mention something about the strange issue of a KI branch in Hong Kong. Earlier speakers have at least a little deeper than I intend to do, taking the details of a donation that has been called into question, of people with questionable backgrounds and disputes. Here CI becomes very insecure and wonders: How is the legal situation? Can we accept a donation under these conditions? KU notes that the legal situation regarding the establishment of operations abroad by Swedish administrative authorities is unclear. There is uncertainty as to the ways in which individual universities have the opportunity to act internationally. But KI was now seeking clarification from the government in the spring of 2015. It didn't work out. That's not good. KI states that for time reasons it would be appreciated if mandates could be given as soon as possible. The government's announcement was delayed. When the decision not to take any action was taken in July 2016, it was stated that the issues raised in KI's request were not issues that the government had to examine but that it was the authority itself that was responsible for the operation in accordance with the current regulations and decisions. But then the KU points out that it is actually the government's job to rule the kingdom. If this kind of request comes from an authority, the government will have to deliver. The government's governing function includes guiding and clarifying matters that the authority has assessed as such that they cannot be cleared up at the level of the authority. In the present case, the Government therefore bears a responsibility for the fact that such clarification has not been made.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-572	Mr President, I would like to Then I too shall begin my last speech in this House. Thank you and hello to everyone! I can't tell you enough that I ended up in the Constitutional Committee. I've told my group leadership that, too. It's just a short anecdote. Before we were elected, everyone asked what I signed up for for the committee. I said I don't want to sit in defense, education or culture. As long as you don't end up in the Constitutional Committee! Then I ended up in the Constitutional Committee. Well, you ended up there! But I'm so happy. I couldn't have had four better parliamentary years. It suits me as a glove to sit on the Constitutional Committee, and we have had so much fun. I am, of course, also participating in the tribute of the office. We've had good cohesion. We've had different opinions, but we've always sewn it up. Here we have Emilia visiting as well. Amazing! Now I'm going back to order. I'm going to talk to you about the Social Insurance Agency and the LSS support. I can put aside the script, because I won't say any of it anyway. I have been involved in the disability movement since 1985, and I am the chairman of a disability association. What I want to say is that you have to be careful when writing regulatory letters so that there are no errors in interpretation. I don't believe-- and I don't think anyone believes-- that there was evil intent in how it was written. But when it has been spelled out, it has become terrible; I can really testify to that from my part of the movement. Something we should also consider is Försäkringskassan's medical officer. They fail their colleagues' certificates, write healthy people with a pen stroke without even hitting them and putting away the legs for support and other things. It's a question that's bigger than this, but I still think you should think about it. If a person is in need of LSS support, it is not only that person who is ill. It is the whole family, the whole surrounding area, that is sick and affected. It's a tremendous strain. The siblings don't get seen, because you don't have time for them. Relatives walk on their knees. For example, we see it in stroke patients — men with stroke do better because their wives push on them, but then the wives die before the men because they can't take it anymore. It is forgotten, and I think it was part of the consequences of this. A contribution to all future governments: Think before you write anything, for it can have such consequences that it can hardly be handled by some families!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-580	Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee, however, I have learned that, whether you say something or not, it sends out a signal. Now everyone here has thanked us for the last four years. If I did not do so, it would send out signals, so even if I had not intended to do so, I must of course agree and wish everyone a nice summer vacation. What I was going to talk about is Blekinge Institute of Technology, BTH. Many here have said good things on the subject, but I would like to add a few things and underline a few others. This process was preceded by a similar situation, where Dalarna University wanted to merge two campuses and where the government did not want to. Although the university itself and the students wanted to merge two campuses, Borlänge and Falun, and despite the fact that the investigation recommended it, the government did not want it. It was decided, collectively in the government, not to allow it, but to keep two campuses. I think it is an important background to bear in mind, especially since earlier in the debate it has been suggested here in the speaker's chair that BTH acted a little too quickly. There were good reasons for that, I would say. It was realized that, okay, we can spend money and resources on this investigation, but it's still not going to be that way. Then that money and resources might as well go to better study quality. Then we don't have to put them into investigating something that we know won't happen. I might suspect that's how you've reasoned. But the big difference between the fall of the University of Dalarna and Blekinge University of Technology is that BTH never got the chance to do an investigation because the Secretary of State acted. In fact, it can be said that Helene Hellmark Knutsson acted through her State Secretary because she, the Minister, is ultimately responsible for the Ministry and for the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says by phone on one occasion that for political reasons it may be difficult for the university to continue pursuing the issue and at another that it is impossible to pursue the issue given that it is soon an election year. It's pretty sharp formulations. Of course, a ministry and a government should be able to engage in dialogue with authorities, but that dialogue should be characterised by information and information exchange and not by governance. It is inappropriate to say that it is impossible to pursue the issue in view of the fact that it is an election year that we have landed in a united KU. Yes, it was the Secretary of State who said this. But it is Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson who is responsible for the government dialogue, so when a State Secretary calls in and a government dialogue takes place under the responsibility of the Government. Therefore, it is no wonder that the Vice-Chancellor of Blekinge University of Technology took this to be the government's position. That's how we have to interpret it. Finally, I would like to say another point that we are making on this matter. This is actually something that I did not intend to mention either, but in view of the words said earlier in the debate on the Transport Agency, I think it is appropriate. Those were rather harsh words then, about how important it is to get complete answers from former ministers. In this case, we also note that it is incredibly important that we receive full answers from sitting, working ministers in the ministries and in the government. We did not get that initially in this review. We do not usually ask questions directly to an authority, as we did in this case. But if we did not, we would not have been able to present this criticism. When incomplete answers are given, the question is: If you say half the truth, is it the truth? Or what is it? So yes, it is important that everyone, especially the current government, gives complete answers. Otherwise, we cannot carry out our mission in the KU.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-590	Mr President, I would like to I would like specifically to highlight, for this block, the notification concerning the way in which the committee has examined the handling of certain tasks during the hearing of the Prime Minister of the Constitutional Committee during last year's review of the Security Council campaign. This concerns a document containing information on participating countries at a climate conference in Stockholm in August 2015, which was examined for confidentiality on 12 April and 27 April 2016 in connection with issues concerning disclosure of public documents. In the reply received by the committee from officials, it was stated that the information on the participating countries was confidential under Chapter 15. Section 1 Publicity and Confidentiality Act. According to the committee, there were no formal obstacles to the Prime Minister's own assessment of the confidentiality of the information in question at the hearing. According to the committee, the Prime Minister's now given description of how he assessed the confidentiality of last year's hearing differs from the assessment he then expressed before the committee. However, the committee assumes that the Prime Minister took an active and conscious position when he submitted the relevant information during the hearing last year. In conclusion, therefore, there were no obstacles to the Prime Minister's own confidentiality assessment at the hearing. As Mrs Klackenberg has already mentioned, the committee also stresses the importance of clarity on issues of this kind and stresses that it is important for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carefully consider the need for confidentiality markings and to endeavour to make a careful assessment of whether or not data are covered by confidentiality. This is a very important aspect that we want to include in the forward-looking work. With this, Mr President, I would like the letter to be added to the file. To conclude, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your excellent cooperation during this parliamentary term and to wish everyone – President, cabinet and Members – a nice summer, as this is my last speech here in Parliament as a member of S in Västerbotten.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-595	Mr President, I would like to Then we have reached the last topic of the year in the review report. I noted this morning, when I was compiling my Presidentus, that – oh! – it was 17 pages long, formulated with wise words, I thought. I then noted when I came to the House that I had signed up for six minutes' speaking time. As a member of the Constitutional Committee, we should, of course, set an example and not over time by 100%, so I will therefore shorten this speech by about 80%. As I said, we have reached the final point of the review report. I think Veronica Lindholm made a good summary. Last year this item, the Ministry of State's duties, covered ten cases. The first review of the term of office covered eight, and last year's item, entitled ‘Some questions about the performance of the duties of the Minister of State, and so on, covered a total of thirteen cases. This year we actually only have five. I don't know, but perhaps one dare hope that the KU's review actually makes a difference. Mr President, I would like to The subject I was going to talk about is that Minister Morgan Johansson in an exchange of views on Twitter has claimed that unemployment among foreign-borns has not increased, despite the great immigration of 2015. He has then illustrated this with a picture from the Ministry of Labour about the development of unemployment. There is perhaps nothing to say about the compatibility of the picture with the truth, but the lion's share of asylum seekers who arrived in 2015 was not included among the unemployed presented in the diagram, probably because they were waiting for a residence permit decision or participated in an establishment programme. In this case it has thus been made clear that the statistics republished by Morgan Johansson did not, more than possibly to a limited extent, include the group to which the statement was addressed. The statement thus gave a misleading picture of reality. Or, more simply, the Government went untruthfully. After all, a minister is a minister even when speaking on social media such as Twitter. Just because you press the send button does not automatically and magically stop the ministerial assignment during the time it takes for the message to be uploaded to the web. It is thus subject to the same laws and regulations that apply to the performance of your duties. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Committee is quite often motivated to examine various statements by ministers. The committee has come to the obvious conclusion that ministers, like all other citizens, have the right to make statements in different contexts. The statements of a minister may even be pointed and polemic. If a minister is not allowed to make pointed statements, it is clear that it would be difficult to take part in the political debate on the same terms as the rest of us. But an important starting point is that statements must be correct. In this case, the KU notes that the tweet published by Morgan Johansson gave a misleading picture, which was not correct.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-602	Mr President, I would like to A little short on two errands. One is about the Prime Minister's statements on the crime at the synagogue in Gothenburg last year. The Prime Minister stated that it is important that those who are guilty should receive serious punishment. This led to a notification to the KU. As has been said in the debate here, it is reasonable that this kind of statement should be made as Prime Minister or Minister of State. He did not say that it was they who were then arrested and suspected of this that would receive severe punishment, but the guilty. This is a very clear difference. The KU is of the opinion that it may be expressed as the Prime Minister did with regard to the assessment he made in the criminal value of the offence in question. So this did not lead to any criticism. At the same time, I think it is important to comment on this positive statement from the Constitutional Committee in relation to the Prime Minister's statement. However, I would like to mention another statement by the Prime Minister, in which the KU makes some criticism. It's about the Prime Minister's statement on the lack of police officers. In a Question Time in the Riksdag in February 2017, the Prime Minister said that it was not budgetary funds for the Police Authority that were missing and caused a shortage of police officers. He said that what caused problems was that police could not be recruited, that there were no policemen to find. A few days after the debate, I visited Kristianstad police and spoke to the local police there. It was then stated that there was a stoppage for police officers, which was introduced by the South Police Region, which made it impossible to hire police officers. It is clear that my reflection at the time was that it was actually budgetary resources that were missing. It was said that there were policemen who could recruit, but they were not allowed to recruit them to the police in Kristianstad. The same answer came to me a few weeks later when I visited the police in Karlskrona. There they reported that there were policemen who were ready to work there. They did not want to work in Malmö, where they could get employment. In Karlskrona, however, budget restrictions had been imposed by the job freeze. It is clear that this affected the possibilities for the police in south-eastern Sweden to fulfil their mission. From the Constitutional Committee we asked questions to the Government Office about this and received a non-answer. However, the Constitutional Committee went on to ask the South Police Region about this, confirming the end of employment and saying that it might have been possible to recruit some police officers. In this case, there is a criticism of the Government Office for the misleading information given to the KU about the possibility of recruiting police officers. I would like to highlight this. Here, then, the Prime Minister's statement came to be wrong, as I see it, but what the KU criticises is that the Government Office gave incorrect information to the KU.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-609	Mr President, I would like to It's coming to the end. I just want to make notes on two dossiers in this chapter. The first is a Twitter announcement by Morgan Johansson that unemployment among foreign-born people has not increased. We in the committee note that when we have examined the issue, it is clear that the Council of State, in its statement on the unemployment of foreign-borns, reported statistics which only included to a limited extent the group to which the statement referred. The statement thus gave a misleading picture. That is the committee's conclusion. The Minister for Justice and Migration is responsible for his statements and therefore for the accuracy of the information he provides. The last matter is about the Prime Minister and is really very strange. As at present, we in the committee were rather tired after a long hearing, and the question is whether the Prime Minister himself was rather tired after the hearing. Then, in the midst of this hearing just over a year ago, the Prime Minister began to read out what the committee had been told about were secret documents. The chairman of the committee, Andreas Norlén, asked the Prime Minister when he was given the opportunity: we have been told that these are secret documents from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Does the Prime Minister disagree? The Prime Minister then replied, "In essence, it is no different than that it is confidentiality." ..................................................... Now we have been thinking about this matter for a year, and the Prime Minister has come back and explained how the situation has arisen. Now, at a hearing earlier this year, the Prime Minister stated that he considered that the information was not confidential. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs announced to the Prime Minister on 8 May 2017 that the confidentiality mark was still in force. The Prime Minister's description of how he assessed the confidentiality during last year's hearing thus differs from the assessment he expressed at the time. However, the committee believes that the Prime Minister made an active and conscious position on the issue of confidentiality. Something else would have been to say that the Prime Minister did not make an active and conscious stand when he himself said he did. It's unthinkable when it comes to a prime minister in front of the KU. That is why we are basing ourselves on this. We would also like to point out that during last year's review there was a discrepancy between the Prime Minister's and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' assessments on the issue of confidentiality. It is unsatisfactory when the committee receives, at short intervals, conflicting answers on issues of public access to documents and confidentiality. The KU therefore stresses the importance of clarity on issues of this kind. We would also like to stress that it is important for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to carefully consider the need for confidentiality markings and that, when the matter arises, the Department endeavours to make a careful assessment of whether data are covered by confidentiality.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-614	Mr President, I would like to I would not really have spoken in this section, but a fellow Member from the Moderates needed to delete himself, and so I chose to join the debate here at the end to comment on the matter concerning the hearing of the Prime Minister in the KU last spring. It's an unusual story. The Prime Minister was at a hearing in the KU on the Security Council campaign. Prior to the hearing, the KU had received numerous documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Many of them had confidentiality markings, including a list of participants in a certain conference that Sweden had invited to. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs argued that the KU should not disclose this information publicly. During the hearing, the Prime Minister read out the names of some of the participating countries. I then asked whether the information on participating countries was not secret. The Prime Minister replied, as we were told, to be quoted here a moment ago: ..................................................... This is undeniably an answer that raises some questions. How can you understand the answer given by the Prime Minister in relation to the confidentiality mark that the documents had received from the KU based on the wishes of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs? Had the Prime Minister provided secret information in a live KU hearing? We asked the Prime Minister to come to us this spring. At that time he gave the task that his assessment at the time last spring was that the information on the countries whose names he mentioned were not covered by confidentiality at the time of the hearing. The KU notes that the description given by the Prime Minister now, in spring 2018, of how he assessed the confidentiality during last year's hearing differs from the assessment he expressed in spring 2017, but the committee assumes that the Prime Minister made an active and conscious position on the issue of confidentiality when he submitted this information last year. As Minister of State and Head of the Government Office, he has the right to examine whether or not information can be disclosed. So he had legal support to make such an assessment as he now says he did at the time. There is therefore no basis for the committee to make formal criticism. On the other hand, the committee points out that the discrepancy between the Prime Minister's statement and actions during the 2017 hearing and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' information to the committee in 2017 are unsatisfactory. It is not appropriate for the KU to receive, at short intervals, conflicting information on matters of public access to documents and confidentiality. The KU points out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should carefully consider the need for confidentiality markings and endeavour to make a careful assessment of the confidentiality of information. In this respect, one can say that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs receives a comment on an issue that is quite similar to that we have discussed in the past on the handling of documents in the Security Council campaign. How do you assess issues relating to public access to documents and confidentiality in the external administration? It is worrying, I think, that this issue arises in several different cases over time in the KU and in two cases only this year. This shows exactly what we said in the previous debate, namely that it is important to look at this within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This will be the last speech, as far as I understand it, in this year's review debate. I would like to thank Members for a constructive and informative debate and for their excellent cooperation in the review.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-623	Mr President, I would like to We are now leaving the KU's review work and moving on to a few issues in which we will discuss substantive policy in the drafting area of the Constitutional Committee. We tend to agree fairly on these matters too, but in this particular case, the Moderates have a reservation to which I request approval. Earlier during the parliamentary term, the so-called regional question was discussed extensively here in Parliament and in the media around the country. By the question of the region, I mean the question of whether counties and county councils should be merged into large and large regions. As you know, this matter fell due to a lack of parliamentary support. What we now have before us, i.e. the Government proposal A uniform regional development responsibility, is about a much smaller issue. It is only about the responsibility for regional development and the regional plans for transport infrastructure. For several years there has been a development where more and more county councils have taken over responsibility for these two issues from the county boards. At present, 14 county councils have that responsibility. In the remaining 7 counties, responsibility is held either by regional cooperation bodies or by the state in the form of the county administrative board. It is not so successful that responsibility is distributed differently in different parts of the country. We Moderates, too, can therefore accept the Government's proposal that responsibility be transferred to county councils, where this is not already the case today, with an exception to which I will come back shortly. We therefore accept that this transfer is carried out by regional development responsibility and responsibility for regional infrastructure planning from the county boards to the county councils. At the same time, however, it is important to say that the state must not leave the issues of regional development. It is important that the state is present and an active party in all parts of the country. I think it would be unfortunate if the state, in the form of the county administrative board, were to have only the role of being a supervisory authority and an authority for the review of certain decisions, because then the state would only come up with pointers. I think that the state should be an active party when it comes to the development of Sweden throughout Sweden. I also think that what is being heard from some quarters is worrying: that there is a prestige struggle and territorial struggle between the county administrative board and county councils or regions in different parts of Sweden. I think it is important to say that both parties – both the county administrative board and the county councils or the regions – have a responsibility to ensure that this does not happen. Even after regional development responsibility is generally transferred, it is a matter of taking a joint responsibility to cooperate and promote good development and not to mark territory and prestige. With regard to the reservation that the Moderates have, we do not believe that regional development responsibility, and especially the responsibility for regional infrastructure planning, should be transferred to the Stockholm County Council. Stockholm County has a particularly important position from a total defence perspective. Stockholm has central government, leadership of the Swedish Armed Forces, financial centres and head office of large media companies – to take some examples. The County Administrative Board is the county's highest civil total defence authority and has good competence and ability to defend total defence interests within its area of responsibility. Both in assessing which infrastructure projects should be prioritised and in designing different infrastructure projects, it is important that the interests of total defence are taken into account. If you are to be very concrete, it can be about everything from that troop transport can take place to that Stockholm can be evacuated. One important issue concerning the design of a project is robustness. For example, the carrying capacity of a bridge determines how many heavy vehicles can cross the bridge at the same time. In order to ensure that the national defence interests in the Stockholm region can be best exploited, it is better that responsibility for regional infrastructure planning continues to be managed by the Stockholm County Administrative Board. In addition, it should be noted that the government's approach is somewhat backwards. It is envisaged to first transfer responsibility for these issues to the county council and then make an assessment of which is the appropriate division of responsibilities from a total defence perspective. Investigations have been set up to review just how the responsibility is to be distributed in the total defence work. Then it would have been reasonable to let the investigation work take its course first and then to take a stand. Finally, it can also be noted that there is no broad support in the Stockholm region for such a change, as I understand it, as opposed to what applies in the rest of the country. In particular, it can be noted that Stockholm Municipality, by far the largest municipality in the county, is opposed to the proposal. But there is – and I see it as such – not a broad anchor in general either, although Stockholm County Council has submitted an application to take over this responsibility. I request approval of the proposal except in the part concerning Stockholm County Council.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-635	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there has been a lot of talk about the regional mess. The regional mess has several different meanings. One is about the county division we have that governs the county councils, public transport in the country and the division of the county boards. This issue, on which Andreas Norlén was concerned, has been discussed not only during this term of office but for the last 30 to 40 years. It has been realised that the 1634 classification may not meet the needs of today's society. I usually put it this way: I live in the parish where Axel Oxenstierna is buried, namely in Kafjärden parish in Sörmland. I go by his grave every time I go home. Despite that, I don't think he has the right to set the bus price, but that's actually what he does. Of course I have tried to do something about this, but it seems politically impossible to come forward. It is as if those who are currently in opposition do not think that a sitting government, whatever its colour, should have that triumph: to do something about Axel Oxenstierna's work. So we'll have to live with his county division. Now that I am talking about the mess, it is more about the administrative structure: how regional power is to be exercised. We have a county administrative board that has become increasingly watered down, with a governor who today is not the chief of much more than a hundred officials who actually have mainly audit functions. We have county councils that have mostly devoted themselves to health care. In some parts of the country we have had regional federations that have been collaborations between county councils and municipalities, which have received some power from the county councils and the county administrative board. We have had county transport companies that have formally been under the county council but have actually been the municipal councillor's own playhouse. We have had municipal associations for collaboration in different parts, all in the same geographical units. It's the regional mess. I think it is very good that we are now getting a symmetrical division over the country of what responsibility should be. It is very confusing that the division of responsibilities in some counties is in a different way and in other counties in a different way. I think that the step of coordinating this and putting regional development responsibility mainly under the elected body is reasonable. The argument used by Andreas Norlén, as a true conservative, is, of course, the arguments put forward in favour of the Oversight Law: the capital city is special, and the king and government must monitor it in particular. I think that the Stockholmers should have the same democratic right as the rest of the country to control where streets and roads are built in their areas. Gotland also has a special significance for total defence, so the arguments for total defence that exist can probably be used around the Kalix line as well as for Gotland's defence. I believe that the arguments for making a symmetric division of responsibilities across the country outweigh. On the other hand, I share Andreas Norlén's concern about the increasingly anorexic situation of county boards and believe that the state should consider whether these gigantic authorities that cover the whole country are always best designed to deal with societal issues. In the 1970s, the Center Party had fought for decentralisation and for the state to lay out power more regionally. I guess I'll have to be a '70s center party and say: Crush some of the state's giant authorities, and put the power on the county boards! I believe that public power in this way would be better designed in a way that suits every county and region. I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee. I would like to conclude, a little unconventionally, by saying that I know that unless the voters of Stockholm give my party an enormous number of votes and, furthermore, Mr von Sydow very much, there is a risk that Björn von Sydow's next speech will be his last in this House. I would like to say that it has been a great privilege to work with you, Björn a person who has been both Minister, Speaker and others. Thank you very much.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-642	Mr President, I would like to Then I stand here in my very last parliamentary debate. It is almost as if the circle is closed, because it is a unified regional development responsibility, the KU46, which is being debated, and I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved. I entered Halland County Council in 1988. That's almost 30 years ago. The question of the region had already been examined several times and was regularly on the agenda. I'm from Kungsbacka. It is a municipality that belongs to Halland but has extensive cooperation with Gothenburg and the various municipalities in the Gothenburg region. Regional dislocation at individual level is evident. At the time when the telephone book was published by Televerket, not even the telephone number of our own county administrative board was in the telephone directory. Today it is the media that is under consideration. Almost all broadcasts end just south of Kungsbacka. The radio masts reach only half the municipality, as well as the local television broadcasts. Otherwise, it is Gothenburg broadcasts we have. We travel to Gothenburg with Gothenburg public transport, and we seek medical care in Gothenburg quite often – almost as often as we seek medical care in Halland. During this term of office, the government has tried to tighten up the regional level. The Committee was set up, which led a great many people out in the regions to hope for major changes. Unfortunately, it was not possible to get support for a major change, so now the government is doing what can be done and ensuring that all county councils, as they are legally called, even if some want to call themselves regional councillors, have similar regional development responsibilities. This is good, and in parallel the government is working to tighten up the state level as well so that the state authorities at least should not contribute to even more confusion through strange geographical divisions. I myself hope that the regional issue will come up as it usually does in a few years' time, because this is a long drive. I'll come to the thank you. There are many of you in this House who have made Parliament's work a particularly pleasant thing. A big thank you, dear colleagues of the KU, for good cooperation and surprisingly often humor and happy laughter, which can be very redeeming when we deal with serious issues. I would like to extend my special thanks to the KU Chancellor for competence, wisdom, loyalty and an almost unimaginable ability to formulate mine, but I think some of my colleagues agree that there is some perverse discussion about something stiff and KU-wise. I would also like to thank the other members of the Chamber, the President and so on. I hope you all get a really nice summer and a really exciting election movement!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-652	Mr President, I would like to I have, like Agneta Börjesson, been a county politician. I started as early as 1973, and it was eleven terms of office. I was involved in forming Region Skåne, which came about to take a regional development responsibility for what had previously been two county councils – Kristianstad and Malmöhus – and Malmö city. Regional development responsibility, I mean, was a success for Region Skåne. On the other hand, you can have views on how things have turned out with regard to the organisation of health care. Here it has been more trouble. But the part with a regional responsibility for development in the counties has become good. I would like to thank Mr Ekström and also representatives of all the other parties who have expressed support for regional development responsibility here. As Mr Ekström said, this has been an important political issue for the Center Party since the 1970s, a question that is partly resolved in this. It is not a complete solution, but it is a step along the way. In all counties, conditions are now being created for the inhabitants to get closer to responsibility for regional development, and I think that is a good thing. Some questions have been raised in a motion. It's about total defense operations. I believe that the proposal put forward by the government that this should be resolved in a specific investigation will be a good one. I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-658	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee, as many have testified today, has endeavoured throughout its term of office to achieve broad consensus on many issues of scrutiny and substantive policy. Now we have come to a matter of the rules of the political game in which this KU spirit and the KU ambition would have been needed already in the parliamentary inquiry on which the government's proposals are based. The Government's proposal concerns the rules on the budgetary process, and this means that legislative proposals that have a clear budgetary impact will be dealt with in one of the decisions on the state's budget. That's a good suggestion. This reduces the risk of conflicting decisions on the budget on the one hand and legislation on the other. There may, as everyone understands, be a discrepancy between the levels of appropriations decided upon and the legislation in force if we do not calibrate the legislation so that we get the result of taxes, subsidies and other things that have been included in the budget. The background to the commission's establishment and work in the spring of 2017 was ultimately the harsh contradictions that arose about the budget process in autumn 2013, the so-called breakpoint battle. As many remember, a piece of the budget was subsequently torn up through a committee initiative. Following negotiations during this term of office between the government parties and the alliance parties, agreement was reached on a new budget process investigation to find ways to develop the budget process so that it becomes tighter and clearer so as to reduce the risk of conflicting decisions. I was one of the members of the investigation, and my hope was that it would be possible to reach agreement on all three subjects included in the investigation's directive. Firstly, the legislation in the budgetary process, secondly, the handling of budget-related announcements, and thirdly, initiatives within Parliament on budgetary-related issues, in particular committee initiatives. In the course of the investigation, there was once again a strong confrontation over the budget. This time in spring 2017, it was, as many certainly remember, about the state income tax, the airline tax and the few-person corporation tax. The confrontations that took place at that time led the government parties to act in protest so that all constructive discussions in the investigation ceased, and they refused to agree to write a single new word on budget-related announcements and initiatives within Parliament on budgetary issues. What could be achieved in close agreement in the investigation was the part that dealt with the legislation in the budget process because it had been decided long before between the Alliance and the government parties that new law should be passed there. But the other issues were blocked as a result of the conflicts that arose. I am very sorry that this happened. I would very much have liked it to have been possible to move forward in broad agreement with developed rules also on the other two issues of announcements and committee initiatives. I believe that our budgetary process would have been good, and I believe that it would have helped to create additional stability and credibility for the budgetary process. It has served us well in the 20 or so years it has existed. Furthermore, it has led to a coherent budgetary process that has created stability and credibility for our budgetary policy in the country, regardless of who has governed it. I had welcomed a broad agreement also in the outstanding areas. I believe that if we had been able to deal with the issues in the Constitutional Committee with the spirit and confidence that has been built up during the parliamentary term, we would have been able to resolve the difficult issues and find compromises and a minimum common denominator that would have brought them forward, perhaps not as far as each side would have wished, but at least a bit along the way instead of the total blockage that was now the case. That is why we in the alliance parties have a reservation, to which I call for approval, in which we simply call on the government to initiate new consultations between the parties in order to try to reach agreement on further developed rules relating to the budgetary process. We believe that it would be good and valuable for Sweden if we could overcome the various blockages and contradictions that have arisen with regard to the budgetary rules. One could say that in the autumn of 2013, the alliance government was given a great deal of poaching in the budget process. In the spring of 2017, it was the turn of the Red-Green Government to have a thief's ass. We can say that we have given each other a thieving kind within the framework of budgetary work and that we could then sound oddly even and instead try to put this behind us and find common rules for the future. I would like that to be possible, and that is the background to the reservation I am calling for. To conclude, I would like to make the same observation as Mr Ekström made in the previous debate, namely that the speech which Björn von Sydow is about to make will probably be his last in this House. I would also like to thank Björn von Sydow in this way for the years we have worked together in the KU Bureau. It has been a pleasure and an honour to get to know a parliamentarian, scientist and gentleman who has worked hard and constructively to move the Constitutional Committee forward. I'm happy and proud to have been working with you, Björn. Thank you very much.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-668	Mr President, I would like to I will limit the speech to questions of a coherent budgetary process. The KU proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a change in the Parliamentary Order. The amendment of the law means that the main provision of the Parliamentary Order must regulate that legislative proposals which have a clear connection with the state budget and which are submitted in or in connection with a bill on the state's budget should be included in one of the decisions on the state's budget. It will thus be easier for a minority government to get through its proposals in relation to the parliamentary majority by claiming that these are budget-linked. SD wants the Riksdag to reject the government's bill. A concerted, orderly and regulated budgetary process is an important principle, and the current system works well overall. Strengthening, deepening and clarifying this principle through constitutional changes may seem logical from an orderly and orderly perspective but must be weighed against heavier principles. The basic prerequisite for the government's proposal is that Sweden is necessarily governed and will be governed by minority governments and that it should therefore be easier for minority governments to govern. We are opposed to this basic condition, not because we are opposed to negative parliamentarism, as it appears in the form of government, but because we believe that the normal thing should be for the parliament to come together after elections and that the parties involved actually try to form a government that supports its policy by a parliamentary majority. For various reasons, this has not succeeded in Sweden. Protecting the parliamentary minority from the majority in various ways is problematic in several respects – not least in terms of democracy. How strange expressions such political solutions can take place we saw last during the December agreement. Few citizens wish to see the December agreement withdrawn once again. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-NQCHZmAbHAy3GTrdwFoYnd	Mr President, I would like to Report KU40, Breakdown into areas of expenditure and a coherent budget process, also contains a proposal that we should make an announcement that the Riksdag Board should review provisions on security in Parliament. I support the proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to What is, however, a little enlightening in the contributions that have been made so far is that the Swedish Democrats are calling for the proposal to be rejected in the report, while the Alliance wants a statement on discussions on the budgetary process. Mr President, I would now like to say a little loudly: one could say that the Swedish Democrats are acting against minority governments and for a majority government, while the Alliance, one might say, is acting to give minority governments a position that would be the majority governments. I can't bear to think about that. My old teacher – or mentor, I will say – in political science, Nils Stjernquist, was also the one who has made many of our constitutional comments. He had defended the financial power for 1809 years as a government, and he was a rather practical political scientist. I remember conversations with him where he said that one should keep the financial authority in the form of government quite open. The reason was that he saw that the rules of fiscal policy do not have eternal life. I recall that he once said that a fiscal doctrine, like the gold standard and stabilisation goals of various kinds, usually has a life story of 30 to 40 years. He meant that there should be openings in the financial authorities and not just closures for innovations. Looking back, you can see that we've had a cycle of 30 to 40 years, and who knows-- maybe we're in a cycle that actually has an end once in a while and where there may be a need for opportunities to make changes? This makes me think that what the Alliance and the government parties agree on in this situation is a good thing. It is good to make proposals, as the President has said, about the state budget and ensure that they do indeed appear in the budget and not separately. However, it may be wise not to lock the budget process further into detail. Our chairman said that if we in the KU had got this in our hands maybe it would have been different. Yes, but perhaps it would have been possible to negotiate on the substance and not always fall back on rules on these issues. Perhaps it would have been possible to think that fiscal policy is not really as eternal as other important values in our political – yes, social – life. I would therefore like to say that I think it is a good thing that Parliament can go along with what a majority means in both points of decision, that is to say, to approve the change in the parliamentary order and to reject the proposal for an announcement in the sense that the Alliance has wanted to give it. Mr President, I would like to Let me also take this opportunity to express my warm thanks and appreciation, among other things, for the kind contributions that have been made to me. Mr President of our committee was very kind, and I think that the President-in-Office has really contributed something that has aroused my approval and which I think has made it quite easy to work with the consensus we agree on. I can say here about the Socialist parliamentary group, both in the KU and in general: surely we have established this approach in this way! That also applies to the Green Party. The President says that it is by a legal method that we shall achieve the decisions we can reach – and they are, after all, political in nature. The form of government opens the way for a legal method in the preparation process, but finally, of course, it is a political decision. I hope we can stand on it. This has led to a lot of work, but it has certainly been worth it. I would also like to extend warm thanks to the office, which is never exhausted but constantly constructive. Every message that the office has misinterpreted our thoughts is wrong; it is we who have thought badly. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to extend warm thanks to the College of Presidents, to the Chambers and to the others who serve our House in the best way even in the difficult time we are in now, with minority parliamentarism at its head. It can become even more acute after the elections, when the voters decide – and it should be in a democracy.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-681	Mr President, I would like to The last debate of the Constitutional Committee today concerns a subsidiarity review of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of what we might call a little simplistic whistleblowers. This is basically a good and important proposal. It is important that the person who experiences and detects errors or irregularities in the application of Union law in this case has different ways and opportunities to sound the alarm about it and create attention to it without having to fear different forms of reprisal. So it's a good thing. There are grounds for common EU rules on sounding the alarm about infringements of Union law, so the Constitutional Committee does not in itself question the need for improved regulation at EU level on these issues. On the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is opposed to the degree of detail at which the Commission has taken up its work, or rather the degree of detail at which the Commission has developed its proposals. These are very detailed rules on how authorities and companies in the Member States should set up reporting routes for whistle-blowing, how it should be organised and how it should work. We believe that it is not right to regulate these issues at European level and to that extent, but to question the compatibility of the proposals with the principle of subsidiarity. We believe that at national level it is perfectly possible to regulate how the reporting possibility is to be organised in detail. We remind you in our position that we in Sweden have protection for people who want to provide information to the media about abuses and corruption. Other ways can also be found, through national legislation, to create protected reporting channels and to protect people who want to sound the alarm about various abuses. From the outset, we had a discussion in committee as to whether this meant that we were based solely on the principle of proportionality when examining this matter. In fact, on principle, it is questionable whether there really is a formal basis for making a so-called reasoned opinion in the subsidiarity process. However, my view is that by pointing out precisely that a number of the proposals contained in the Commission's draft directive are too detailed and involve too much binding on the Member States, the KU shows that it can invoke the principle of subsidiarity and say that this should not be dealt with and regulated at European level to the extent that the Commission proposes. Then, as I see it, there is a subsidiarity perspective on the issue, which makes it reasonable to make a reasoned opinion. In this context, the committee considers that the proposal does not fully comply with the principle of subsidiarity and proposes that the Parliament give a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. With this in mind, Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal in the report. As the KU has soon taken up six hours of the House's time today, it is surely just to say in Hamlet that what else is, is silence.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-689	Mr President, I would like to Andreas Norlén has given an exemplary account of the nature of the case. It is true that all the parties are behind the position we have now reached, and it is important that we have been able to do so at this stage. We have gone over the matter and been able to accept what has been said there and have reached an agreement. Then we shall also add that, for our part in any case, it has been facilitated by the fact that the factual memorandum we have received from the government is well in line with the position that we have finally managed to reach in those parts that question the detailed management of this matter. We have said, and I think that is important, that the main issue itself is a Unional issue that is best regulated at European level. Then, as Andreas Norlén has explained, we have made use of the criterion of proportionality in the context of the subsidiarity test in order to arrive at this position in terms of detail. Mr President, I would like to I have long believed that the Constitutional Committee is, in Parliament, in any case, the guardian of the principle of subsidiarity. We are ensuring that this principle is upheld and upheld. Every year we monitor the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, and we ensure that our colleagues in other committees do what they can to test subsidiarity to the greatest extent possible. We are following these issues with great interest, not only in terms of the substance of each individual case, but in terms of the principle of the matter. We also have the support of regulations. We have the EU Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon and also, to some extent, the parliamentary system that regulates how we are to comply with the principle of subsidiarity. In the course of time, there has been some development in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of a criterion of proportionality in the area of subsidiarity. That is what we have also used in this particular matter. We have done it once before, as I understand it, when we were going to assess the EU electoral act that then appeared on our table. We considered it, of course, appropriate that the issue of the EU electoral act should be regulated at European level, but when we looked at the details of the matter, we used the opportunity we have for a proportionality assessment to consider this to be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. So we have done it once before. Then I also know that the Committee on Finance has made a request for a slightly broader proportionality assessment in these contexts. In this case, the KU is a little more daring and takes the step a little further and a little clearer when it comes to the proportionality assessment in the subsidiarity assessment. We have thus created what I would call a reasonably historic moment within the KU in terms of this position and, at the same time, created a certain practice in dealing with the proportionality criterion in this test. This means that, as I did in committee, I would also like to make a contribution to the next composition of the KU. After the elections, new, wise Members will deal with these issues. We hope that they will then also understand that the practice that is now being developed is more aimed at an exception. It is an exceptional situation which leads us to land in this position rather than to create the path for a new general rule. That's what I'd like to do. In the autumn and in the future, we expect to be able to regulate the matter in more detail with discussions between the committee and the government, but also with regard to negotiations with the EU Board. Mr President, I would like to With this I feel that I am satisfied and confident in this position and that we can be proud that we have achieved this in the way we have done and yet with great respect for the principles that we have managed to maneuver in a rather wise way, I think. I am in favour of the proposal in this opinion and, as so many others have already done here, I would also like to thank the members of the committee, the cabinet and the College of Presidents for this term of office. To say the least, it has been a privilege to be able to participate in the work with you. I would also like to wish everyone here and everyone who follows us from home a really nice summer – a World Cup summer where together we will try to applaud our Swedish national team for new successes. Before I went up to give this speech, we led by 1 to 0, and we hope that it will stand.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-698	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the World Cup report, Emanuel! We hope. In the Constitutional Committee, I have made a clear criticism of this proposal for a large and bureaucratic whistleblower organisation, which the European Commission wants to create, as I see it, very high costs that would affect companies and public services in Sweden and Europe in general. The committee does not now question the need for regulation at EU level in relation to infringements of Union law, but recalls that Sweden has the protection of whistleblowers who provide information to the media on maladministration and corruption. There are also opportunities to consider other legislation on reporting maladministration, corruption and infringements of Union law. The KU questions whether this detailed regulation proposed by the EU is reasonable. We believe that the details should be decided at national level. There are parts of the Commission's proposal on this particular issue of internal and external reporting channels which go very far – and which also contribute to the very high costs – which I am convinced would lead to a very large criticism, not least from the company side, of imposing costly bureaucracy. The whistleblowing system often has the effect that it works for a while, but after a while the effects do not remain, but only the costs and bureaucracy. Against this background, the committee does not all share the view on this proposal. I, for my part, think that we are somewhat tougher on the part of the KU than the government was on this proposal, and I think that is a good thing. It will be a reasoned opinion, which I think is relatively clear and sharp. This is my last contribution to the debate during my eight years in Parliament. With regard to this reasoned opinion, I would like to express my thanks for the support that has been expressed by all parties for it, but of course I would like to thank the Bureau, the other members of the KU and the KU office in particular for the joint efforts and cooperation we have had to strengthen democracy in our country, not least in view of the problems of democracy that exist in many countries because of nationalist organisations and that there are countries that have obvious problems with democracy. I think it is important that we in the KU are clear and work for a strengthened democracy in our country.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-704	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, the activities of the European Union in 2017. The Swedish Democrats are a clear EU-critical party. We believe that the EU has evolved from intergovernmental economic cooperation with an internal market to a costly, inefficient bureaucratic colossus of too much power. The agreement voted for by the Swedish people in 1994 has thus changed so much that a renegotiation is necessary. Should a customer be satisfied with an agreement and never renegotiate it, even though both the market and the agreement have changed? No, of course not. The same applies to the EU. It is not a reasonable position to never renegotiate an agreement that affects our country and our citizens to such an extent as EU membership. The Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden, like the UK, should demand better membership conditions and then allow the people to vote. It's time for a svexith. Until then, we will work to limit the EU's influence. V i will oppose supranationalism, and we will work to keep Sweden out of EMU. We will also work for Swedish interests in the EU. French President Emmanuel Macron gave a speech earlier in our speech at Sorbonne, the University of Paris. He urged the people of Europe to take up the challenge of abandoning nationalism and presented his vision to the EU. Abandon nationalism! In this way it could sound from Josef Stalin in 1922 when the Soviet Union was formed. When the message is repeated almost 100 years later, it is received with just one shoulder twitch. Macron announces that Europe is a European miracle, a unique model in the world that is to be kept alive at all costs. The price we pay this year has risen to SEK 39.5 billion, which corresponds to almost all of the Swedish judicial system. I repeat: almost the whole of the Swedish judiciary. Unlike Macron, the Swedish Democrats believe in a sovereign state in which all citizens are given the opportunity to influence political development. Instead of supranationality, we want to return to bilateral cooperation where the single market and the free movement of goods, services and capital are the focus. Only by restoring our sovereignty can we restore popular rule and take back power from empire builders such as Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker and Emmanuel Macron. We don't believe in Macron's vision either. A common defence budget for 2020 and a common defence policy
i-ec853962355fdcf4-714	中 bringing Member States' tax systems and social welfare systems closer together A European minimum wage, which would threaten the Swedish model in which the social partners agree 中 to enlarge the EU by making the mandates of the current 73 British MEPs a joint electoral list instead of disappearing. When the United Kingdom leaves, the number of members of the Union will, of course, be reduced by the number of members that the United Kingdom has had. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are strongly critical of some countries paying a high membership fee, while others in general are only allowed to receive money almost without any counter-claims. Sweden has been the third largest net contributor to the EU between 2000 and 2015. In 2017, Sweden's EU contribution was close to SEK 30 billion, while the return from the EU budget was only SEK 11 billion. This year the EU levy is SEK 39.5 billion, as I mentioned earlier. In 2021 we are expected to pay SEK 53 billion, which corresponds to the entire Swedish defence budget – yes exactly, the entire Swedish defence budget! The difference of tens of billions of dollars will never benefit the Swedish taxpayer. The Swedish Democrats demand that Swedish taxpayers' funds be used for the development of Sweden instead of Central and Eastern Europe. The Swedish Democrats have on several occasions highlighted that the EU can reduce its budget rather than find new revenue and put tax law at federal level. Although the Treaty does not provide for the EU's right of taxation today, the European Commission has already found ways of circumventing this in the form of a common corporate tax base. The EU does not intend to save any money, but is constantly trying to find new funding opportunities. The European Commission is developing the concept of own resources. It is a question of giving the EU tax rights. These proposals include the EU taxes that the European Commission wants to replace the EU levy. The Swedish Democrats have said no to any EU initiative on own resources. We think that the issue should be decided at national level in order for us to retain tax rights in Sweden. The Swedish democrats find it remarkable that the direct inability of the European Union and the Commission to manage budgetary resources has never been raised in greater extension than is being done today. Year after year, there are margins of error that would never be accepted at the sv ensk level. Error margins of 3.3% in 2017, 3.8% in 2015 and 4.4% in 2014 show significantly higher margins of error than the EU's own requirement of 2%. This shows a trend of unhealthy finances, which should never be accepted. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's agriculture is world-wide unique with high animal welfare, low antibiotic use and environmentally friendly food production. We in the Swedish Democrats are not opposed to free trade, but we believe that it is an important principle to retain control of our own food production as much as possible. It is when food is produced in Sweden that we have the best insight into the production conditions. There is also a need to call into question excessive length of transport which could result from imports. In the wake of Brexit, the Commission wants to reduce EU agricultural aid. But the cuts will hit Swedish farmers particularly hard. According to the Swedish Farmers' Federation, LRF, Sweden's support can be reduced by between 10 and 15 per cent. 2 000 Swedish farms may be affected. The reason is that the biggest cuts will be made within the rural programme where Sweden and some other countries have had large programmes. This means that the refund of Sweden's EU fee will decrease significantly while the Swedish EU fee increases. Mr President, I would like to Another step in the federal direction was taken in April last year when the social pillar was initiated by the European Commission. As early as October last year, this pillar was established with weak support from the Riksdag. The social pillar is, in our view, a completely unnecessary measure. It also cuts through the Swedish labour market model. With this development, the times when the union and employer made up for the conditions in the labour market will become history. The Swedish model will eventually be replaced by EU legislation. In addition, the social pillar regulatory framework will lead to more regulatory constraints for businesses, reduced growth and fewer jobs in the EU and Sweden. Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-728	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to the debate, Minister. It is always good to be able to hold a debate on a report with the minister responsible present. Mr President, I would like to This debate is timely. We are at a time when Europe is needed more than ever. It is a Europe based on values, which stands up for its values and which is pushing for development to resolve issues that can only be resolved jointly. We are not going to build a Europe of walls. We are not going to close the EU. It is important that we continue to work on what has borne Europe forward, namely the belief that we can more together, the desire to do more together and the belief that the four freedoms enrich us all, the whole of Europe. This morning we heard that the EU is facing new negotiations on free trade agreements with Australia and New Zealand. It is clear that when, at the same time, we have experienced that free trade is threatened by tariffs, by protectionism and by nationalism, it is important that those of us who have learned from history and are trying to choose another way forward stand up for development along with other like-minded countries. Mr President, I would like to Of course, this does not mean that Europe is without concern. The EU is facing major challenges in the coming years. It is about Brexit, budget, migration, climate issues and that we can solve the internal uncertainties created by certain countries opting out of the values they have signed. There Europe must have the ability, the will and the strength to stand up to uphold these values. Democracy, freedom and a liberal world order are the foundations of Europe. This also applies to human rights. I also hope, of course, that tomorrow will wish to join the European Convention on Human Rights. It is part of the Treaty, but we are not yet there, Mr President. However, in times when countries and even parties are talking about leaving the European Convention, it becomes even more important to strengthen the common legal basis for human rights. We also have a role for our neighbours. In an alliance reservation, we have highlighted the importance of the Eastern Partnership. This is a line that we have been pursuing for a long time and that Sweden has stood up for together. It is important here that we not only talk but that we also take measures to strengthen the Eastern Partnership. It is good that we have passed visa issues, but there are still countries that are at war: Ukraine, where Russia is still present. Georgia has still occupied much of its territory. There are challenges in the Eastern Partnership that we must stand up to face. We will do so in a credible way, so that you do not end up in limbo and feel that because of the power of fear you must follow the great eastern neighbour. Many people feel that yoke from the past and hope that the EU will have the ability and energy to resist and offer the way forward that many are seeking. Against this background, I would like to support the joint reservation No 11. Of course, I support all my reservations, but for time winning, I choose to agree only to that reservation. We on our part have highlighted the importance of continuing to develop the EU in a way that does not force countries to opt out, but we want to create opportunities. Europe needs to develop deeper. There should be no requirement for all countries to be present at all times. We can imagine EU membership at slightly different speeds. On the other hand, it is important that the four freedoms and the internal market cannot be removed. Nor can agreements entered into be negotiated; it is also important. The starting point is that we should move forward, not backwards. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to touch on sanctions policy. We have, of course, highlighted the importance of really giving force to words when Russia is not acting against its own violations of, for example, human rights. Magnitsky legislation is under way in several countries. We believe it is important for the EU – as in other contexts – to have the ability to impose its own sanctions on people who have committed serious abuse and are currently going to punishment. That discussion takes place in reservation 19. Here we have supported parts of the motion, including from me and the Center Party, that Sweden should also investigate the introduction of such legislation in the event that the EU is blocked by, for example, countries that are close to Russia. We must have that ability and power. It is important that the government starts such an investigation. I change my mind, Mr President. I would also like to support this reservation, which is reservation 19 in paragraph 7. Of course, I support all the reservations I have signed up to. Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this term of office! This was my last speech.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-743	Mr President, I would like to There are many questions surrounding the EU now that Brexit is to be implemented and a new budget is to be adopted in the aftermath of this. Now it is extremely important that we are clear with which Europe we want to see. Many of the citizens of the European Union are opposed to an increase in supranationality and the way in which the Union is dealing with the deep economic crises in several Member States. The EU's focus on allowing citizens to bear the costs of bank speculation and saving themselves from the crisis has fundamentally failed. The EU's crisis policy has not only destroyed welfare and security systems in a number of EU countries. Unemployment persists, economic disparities are increasing and, in the wake of the crisis, xenophobia and racism are increasing. The military cooperation within Pesco strikes at our military freedom of alliance and contributes to a negative armaments spiral within the Union. Essentially, the need for change is to reform the Union so that decision-making moves closer to the citizens, that decisions are taken in democratically elected assemblies and that citizens are given a real opportunity to influence and be included in the decisions taken. As long as Sweden is a member of the European Union, we should work for power to be transferred back to the Member States and for us to have a binding derogation from EMU and from the common agricultural policy. There is much to be said, but I will focus on the motions raised by the Left Party and dealt with in this report. Since the early 2000s, the EU has negotiated a number of economic agreements with the ACP countries – Africa, the Caribbean, the Pacific – and with several countries in Latin America. Since the start of the negotiations, the agreements have received massive criticism from civil society, small farmers, industry and politicians, both in the AVS countries, Latin America and the EU, as they are primarily in the interests of the EU. Among other things, the Trade Strategy states that trade policy should facilitate European companies to compete on the world market and secure access to raw materials. Therefore, in the negotiations, the EU takes very little account of the needs of poor people. Instead, the emphasis is on strengthening the interests of European big business at the expense of countries' room for manoeuvre in choosing their own policies to combat hunger and poverty. These agreements risk reducing the chances of combating poverty and increasing the risk of small farmers being knocked out and natural resources being exploited in an unsustainable way, as we have been doing for a long time. We in the Left Party believe that Sweden should work for this type of trade agreement to take its starting point in Agenda 2030 and a coherent development policy. Mr President, I would like to The European Commission is the world's fourth largest donor, and Sweden annually channels just over SEK 2 billion of the national aid budget through the EU. There are a number of different processes in the EU's development policy that will bring about major changes, and in this work Sweden should be actively involved. The EU's development policy has several shortcomings and faces a number of challenges. For example, when the Union's trade, agriculture and fisheries policies are designed on the basis of the needs of Member States, this may make it more difficult, and in some cases completely broken, for the results of aid. Another major challenge for the EU's development policy is that some Member States have been able to block much of the work on sexual and reproductive health and rights in the Union's assistance. There is also a need to clarify the role of civil society in EU development policy, so that civil society is involved in decision-making processes and the funding of civil society activities is increased. Sweden should promote greater coherence and effectiveness in EU development policy. Last summer, the European Commission opened up aid funds to be used for military activities. This use of aid funds is clearly contrary to the principles of the DAC criteria and the EU Treaties. The Left Party is very critical of this development and believes that Sweden within the EU should work to stop the proposal for aid funds to be used for military activities. Since autumn 2015, the EU has been working intensively to conclude pacts with a number of countries in Africa and the Middle East to prevent refugees from coming to Europe. The pacts contain promises of aid and trade agreements in exchange for controlling and halting migration. The EU has also established a trust fund of around EUR 3.1 billion to finance efforts to halt migration from African countries. The majority of the funds in the fund are aid money. Sweden, as a major donor to the Fund, is a member of its board of directors and should have something to say about this. Some of the more attentive examples of how the EU has used aid to stop migration are found in Turkey, Afghanistan and Libya. When the EU concluded agreements with Turkey in spring 2016 to stop people from entering the continent, it was with economic promises, largely financed by aid. We in the Left Party believed that this would mean a silent consent to the increasingly authoritarian line of Erdo中an. Now we see the result, with over 40 000 people put in prison for being connected to Fethullah Gülen or for being in opposition. Thousands of activists from the HDP party are in prison, and their presidential candidate Selahattin Demirtaş risks over 500 years in prison. Lots of media have been shut down. Turkey has entered Afrin, and on Sunday there will be elections over a year earlier than planned, when Erdo中an wants to secure power. When Afghanistan concluded a readmission agreement with the EU in autumn 2016, it was after a threat that the EU would withdraw its aid to the country – this is entirely according to leaked documents from The Guardian and reports from Amnesty. In the summer of 2017, the EU increased its support to the Libyan Coast Guard by EUR 46 million, money channelled from one of the EU's aid funds, despite the situation in Libya and the knowledge of the abuses committed by the Coast Guard. Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and the UN have been reporting for some time about violations and gross abuses committed by militias in Libya. It is clear that human rights weigh very lightly against the ambitions of stopping refugees from coming to Europe. The fact that the Swedish Government has supported all these decisions is incomprehensible. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 10. Furthermore, in this last debate of ours, I would like to thank you for this wonderful year since I entered Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Of course, at times we feel very different and sometimes have tough debates. Nevertheless, the climate in the committee has been very welcoming. In addition, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the committee secretariat, which is very courteous and who has responded professionally to many of the questions I have had in my first year and has drawn attention to current matters. The same applies to the Chamber Office. I want to wish you all a really nice summer. To my opponents: See you in the election campaign!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-760	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the activities of the European Union in 2017 – another year in which European cooperation has faced great trials, with continued instability and unrest in our environment, new terrorist attacks and an unresolved migration situation. From the point of view of the motion for a resolution, the committee has chosen to deal with twelve different areas in this report. I will not touch on everyone but focus on those areas where we have reserved and which are the direct responsibilities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: the European Neighbourhood Policy and the European Union's security and foreign policy in a broader perspective. Mr President, I would like to Enlargement remains one of the Union's key tools for security and stability. In line with more for more-principle, there should be a clear membership perspective for those partner countries that are geographically located in Europe and are implementing political and economic reforms. Such an approach presupposes that the EU's commitment to reform is long-term and that the EU offers comprehensive support to partner countries wishing to move closer to the EU. I wish Sweden's foreign policy had been even more focused on the EU's immediate neighbourhood, because we are seeing human rights and freedoms being violated in country by country. War actions are allowed to take place in Ukraine, only 500 miles from here. In the Balkans, there are once again conflicts. Either we export stability or we import instability, said enlargement Johannes Johannes Hahn when the European Commission's strategy for the Western Balkans was presented in February this year. The answer to these challenges is an active Europe and a united political leadership with a common foreign and security policy worthy of its name. The answer to Europe's challenges, Mr President, is not a social pillar in which parental insurance and minimum wages should be regulated at European level. The answer to Europe's challenges is not a budget that continues to swell. In 2008, Sweden and Poland presented the idea of enhanced cooperation with the EU's eastern neighbours. Ten years later, a lot of positive developments have taken place with regard to the Eastern Partnership. The EU has deepened trade agreements and visa-free travel for Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. But we have a Russia which sees the European approach of these countries as a threat rather than an opportunity for the region as a whole. Russia is of the opinion that small states should be subject to and therefore also wants to govern the future choices of these countries. Mr President, I would like to I call for the joint alliance reservation No 11 under paragraph 5, the European Neighbourhood Policy. There we stress, among other things, the importance of Sweden now strengthening cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries in order to further the process in accordance with the objectives set for the establishment of the Partnership. Much is at stake in the region. Possibly, progress for the Eastern Partnership has never been more important than it is now. A free and quiet neighbourhood not only benefits our neighbours from us too. As I said, either we export stability or we import instability. The Alliance has another joint reservation in this report. It concerns the government to investigate the possibility for Sweden to introduce a national Magnitsky legislation. This is important. It is one way of getting to grips with punishing people or preventing human rights violations in countries that lack democratic institutions. Sweden should not offer a sanctuary to criminals. It is therefore a question of extending the sanctioning tool. These are principles of legislation that can be implemented in individual EU countries and have been introduced in individual EU countries. It is also time for Sweden to take steps forward. I also support reservation 19. In fact, no accession negotiations are in progress with Turkey. That's the way it should be. Developments in Turkey are going in the wrong direction in terms of human rights and human rights and respect for the principles of the rule of law. On the other hand, the EU needs to find ways to support the democratic forces that are operating in the country under great pressure. Mr President, I would like to As far as the southern neighbourhood is concerned, the hope that was sparked in North Africa and the Middle East during the Arab Spring that we all know has turned into turbulence. Tunisia, however, is the best country to emerge from the turmoil. It has made democratic changes and now has a democratic constitution. But terrorism threatens the security and development of the country, and Tunisia is in great need of support. A key element of the neighbourhood policy in the South is that the EU continues to play an active role as a political and not least economic partner. It is also important to provide strong support to strengthen the fight against terrorism with a focus on anti-radicalisation. When we look at the EU in a wider foreign policy focus, it is quite clear that there is no vacuum when neither the EU, the UN nor, for that matter, the United States is acting. This is evident not least in the Middle East. Russia, China, Iran and Turkey with other states have instead taken the opportunity to advance their positions. The Christian Democrats want a more active, coherent and effective European foreign policy. This is perhaps more important now than ever before. Unfortunately, the signals from some of the EU Member States indicate something else. The voice standing up for human rights has weakened. We have seen clear signs of this when it comes to EU policy towards countries such as Cuba, Iran and Belarus, where issues and demands for democracy and human rights have clearly been put back. To conclude, Mr President, I naturally support all the Christian Democratic reservations. However, for the time being, I am content to support only the previously announced reservations Nos 11 and 19. Thank you very much for the debate. I wish you a nice summer.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-775	Mr President, I would like to It is both anxious but also possibly more hopeful times today. We see that the terrible war in Syria is being scaled down. Even if the fighting continues, there are clear signs that some kind of peace can be achieved. That solution must be based on political consensus. All the countries involved should come together with vigour on a long-term solution for Syria. It is totally unacceptable that Syria has become a place of war for the past and present conflicts of several countries. The European Union has an extremely important role to play here. It is a question of clearly marking and acting with an EU vote to support the ongoing peace process, but also of remaining a strong and reliable humanitarian donor in the future construction of Syria. The EU is currently the most important and balanced player in foreign and security policy. As the United States gradually reduces its global engagement and isolates the country more and more, it is fortunate that Twitter exists so that the rest of the world knows how they reason. In such a situation, the EU must act even more proactively to promote the positive development of the global security regime. Mr President, I would like to Although Trump and Kim have met and written some kind of letter of intent between the countries, it is only a first step in the right direction. The road is very long, because Trump has far from having the full support of either Congress or Senate for his actions in Singapore. Symbol politics has its value. I hope that will lead to constructive content. Let us look at the development with positive vision but with a basic scheptic attitude. China, Japan, South Korea and Russia will also want to safeguard their interests in the future process. There will certainly be different wishes around the Korean Peninsula and thus a process in which the EU can be the balanced player with no self-interest and commitment to the security of the entire area. Unfortunately, I have to say that Trump is coming up on my agenda again. When the United States chose to leave the nuclear agreement with Iran, crop circles were once again disrupted. It is another step backwards for a more peaceful world. That is certainly not surprising. The Trump administration has indicated its support for Israel. It is no secret that Israel and Iran are archenemy. With this in your luggage, Trumps's actions are not illogical. In the same way, the embassy migration created further violent turbulence in the region. Thankfully, the UN condemned Israel following the escalating and disproportionate violence in Gaza. But the United States is not a reliable and objective negotiating partner with either Iran or Israel and Palestine. There are too many special American interests to deal with. The Republicans have an agenda that unfortunately leads to instability in the region. The United States has now reinforced an already multi-infected conflict. Here the EU and the UN must show courage, patience and perseverance to balance the situation and do their utmost to maintain a reasonably constructive dialogue with both Iran, Israel and Palestine. Mr President, I would like to Enlargement of the EU is important. It is important for achieving more balance and harmony in Europe. It is important for peace and security, for free movement, for good trade opportunities between countries, for promoting the development of democracy and prosperity, and so on. An increasingly integrated EU also creates prosperity for Sweden. It is good that the Commission and the governments have set their feet to move forward in several important negotiations. The last step is important. The new North Macedonia is a major step in an infected process between Macedonia and Greece. It has been an obstacle to future EU entry, and it is good that that obstacle has been removed. I have visited North Macedonia a number of times and have followed the positive developments in democracy on the ground since the corrupt reign of former Prime Minister Gruevski and not least after the defying of the Constitution and the attack on Parliament when hooligans stormed in and assaulted members of the current government. It was a shame. It is a good and new era in North Macedonia. I am pleased to have good contacts with Prime Minister Zaev and his government. The Social Democratic-led government is extremely progressive and is constantly carrying out new welfare reforms with the aim of creating the best conditions for its citizens in the run-up to future EU accession. However, it is a long way to go. Hopes must be met with clarity and patience, but also with goodwill when North Macedonia meets the necessary conditions. Mr President, I would like to Lars Mejern Larsson and I had the privilege of visiting Serbia this spring. It was a good and valuable journey. The main aim was to ascertain the state of Serbia's accession negotiations with the EU. We had many good talks with politicians and representatives of civil society. The overall picture was quite clear. Serbia must deal with the Kosovo conflict. Major steps are needed from both sides to reach a solution and not least a progressive approach to leaving old wrongs and looking into a more positive future. The most important issue, however, was the development of democracy and trust in politicians and authorities. The completely illegal demolition of the residential area of Savamala, where lots of residents lost their apartments to leave space for a shopping centre, was an example of corruption that reduced trust and, above all, left Serbia further down on the Transparency International list. No perpetrators have so far been brought to justice. That is extremely remarkable. Having said that, Serbia must take strong action to counter corruption in society, both in legislation, in action and also in the media. Serbia is needed in the EU because it plays an important role in the Balkans. But only Serbia itself can decide whether it wants to enter the European Union. From what we saw and heard, we know that the will exists. However, many more steps need to be taken to create the right conditions for future EU membership. I am sure that politicians have heeded this and are taking action with this in view of future EU membership. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-791	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! It feels very nice to be here again and discuss the EU. Today, we will deal with the letter concerning the EU's activities in 2017. For me as a social democrat, jobs always come first. That's why I want to start with the jobs. It's easy to take the EU for granted, but 1.4 million Swedes go to work thanks to exports – and over 70% of exports go to the EU. Through our trade we can build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. Despite the opportunities created by a single market, there are many obstacles for businesses and people who want to work and move across borders. We must continue to promote trade and remove barriers in the internal market. This is why the government has been pushing for the last three years to implement the Single Market Strategy for goods and services and, in particular, the Digital Single Market Strategy. In order to unleash the potential of digitalisation in Europe, I took the initiative of setting up a group, the so-called D9, with the nine most digitised countries to drive Europe forward. We last met in Dublin a month ago and talked a lot about artificial intelligence. The work on digitalisation in the EU has led to the abolition of roaming charges so that you can surf your mobile phone at the same cost in the EU as in Sweden, that a portability regulation has been introduced that allows you to watch your favourite series abroad and that geo-blocking has been abolished so that you can no longer be discriminated against when shopping online – for example in holiday times, when booking hotels and rental cars online. It is with pride that I can say that Swedish exports are breaking record. We've never exported more than we do now. Last year, exports of goods increased by 10 per cent! As a Swedish Social Democrat, I know that free trade and export to the outside world is one of the pillars of our welfare and security. In recent years, the EU has successfully negotiated free trade agreements with, among others, Canada, Japan, Vietnam and Singapore. Agreements with Mercosur, Australia and New Zealand are under way. Our Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, is there right now to start those negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me be frank in this House. I'm incredibly frustrated, and now I'm going to tell you why. When I took office as EU and Trade Minister, the EU negotiated with the US a new comprehensive trade agreement. It was one of the first major meetings I had between the European Commission and the United States. We actually had it in the LO castle. The agreement would remove tariffs and tariffs and unnecessary differences in standardisation. Now, two years later, it's quite a different tone. President Trump imposes duties on steel and aluminium and threatens to impose duties on cars. The US also vetoes WTO judges and thus jeopardises the whole review mechanism. Instead of discussing how we can develop world trade, we are now discussing how we can escape a trade war. This threatens jobs here in Sweden and the economic development of the whole world. Now it's serious. When others falter, we in Europe must stand up for open and free trade – and, frankly, for common sense! As a social democrat, I know the importance of financial security, of knowing that you and your family have enough. I also know how incredibly important it is to have a safe job, not to have to constantly worry about getting rid of your income. Safe people know faith and do not fear the future. But around Europe, more and more people are concerned about the future. We Social Democrats understand why. Many have been left behind or forgotten, and income gaps have widened. That is why the government has been working since the beginning of its term of office to put social issues higher on the EU agenda. Together with the Commission, we hosted the Gothenburg Summit in November on fair jobs and growth. The European Pillar of Social Rights was signed there. I hope that this will contribute to an improved development that will be felt by the citizens of Europe. As social gaps increase, legitimacy and confidence in cooperation and political solutions decrease. Another important step forward in the social field was made in April, when the EU agreed on new rules on posting, which would ensure that the principle of equal pay for equal work should apply in all Member States. After hard social democratic work, we can now say: Equal pay for equal work should apply! Mr President, I would like to The EU will focus on issues that are best addressed at European level, issues where there is European added value. These can be major issues such as the climate or small issues such as mobile roaming charges. Climate issues cannot be solved by individual countries alone. That is why I am pleased that important progress has been made in the field of climate change in the European Union during this term of office. Sweden has been one of the countries that pushed the most for the EU to implement the Paris Agreement. We are working hard for ambitious targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Migration is by its very nature an issue that is best dealt with jointly. The government has pushed for a common asylum system and increased migration work within the EU. For Sweden, it goes without saying that all Member States should take joint responsibility for people fleeing to Europe, but unfortunately that is not the case. The government has put a strong focus on developing common and stronger instruments within the EU to address future migration challenges. We have highlighted the importance of solidarity, of participating in EU action and of supporting transit and countries of origin. The EU's external border has also become more robust. The EU's common asylum and migration system must work, and we will continue to pursue this. Sweden should be safe. Our security and development depend on cooperation with the outside world, not least in Europe, and we know that we are living in an increasingly troubled world. This is evident not least in Syria of war and Ukraine. This is why the government has been pushing ahead with EU work in several areas of security. We have initiated and pushed forward the work against terrorism and the EU's global strategy for foreign and security policy, including to strengthen the EU's crisis management capabilities both civilian and military through, for example, permanent structured cooperation, Pesco. Last week I was in Kristinehamn and opened the new EU civilian crisis management warehouse for which MSB will be responsible. It creates jobs in Värmland and the conditions for humanity in the world – a really good combo! Mr President, I would like to It is deeply worrying that there are Member States that both question and challenge our common values. I am particularly concerned about developments in Hungary and Poland. Respect for the principles of the rule of law and the EU's other fundamental values are crucial to the Union's ability to develop economically and socially. When there are shortcomings, the rights of both individuals and, by extension, the cohesion and security of our continent are threatened. The EU is not an ATM where countries can only collect money. Common values and responsibility for joint decisions apply here. In the EU's long-term budget, we can see a proposal on conditionality linked to compliance by Member States with the principles of the rule of law. On 2 May, the Commission presented its proposal for a new Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021 – 2027. Negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework will be long and tough. The government believes that the proposed total expenditure volume is too large and should remain at the same level as now, that is, 1% of the total EU budget. We also do not accept that the discounts that Sweden has had so far on the fee are phased out. This would mean a large increase in the Swedish levy and an excessive financial burden for Sweden. The fee must be reasonable and fair. There are also positive elements in the Commission's proposal, such as the conditionality of EU funds linked to compliance with the rule of law. The government has pushed for this to be included in the new financial framework. It goes without saying to me that Member States must follow the EU's common values in order to benefit from EU funds. It is also important that the budget is modernised. Here the Commission is on the right track with more funds for research and climate action, among other things. But further cuts are needed in the traditionally large budget lines: agricultural policy and cohesion policy. One of the main factors affecting budgetary negotiations is Britain's withdrawal from the EU. Brexit means that the conditions for EU cooperation change, especially for Sweden, which has long had the UK as a close partner on many important issues. In the negotiations on the withdrawal of the UK, a key Swedish priority is to ensure a responsible and predictable process. Significant progress has been made in this direction. However, difficult exit issues still remain, particularly the issue of the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying a few words on an issue that I, as EU Minister, am particularly passionate about: strengthening participation in European work here at home in Sweden. An important debate is currently under way on the future of the European Union. During its term of office, the Government has taken several initiatives to strengthen the possibilities to influence decisions at EU level, deepen understanding of the EU and broaden the EU debate in Swedish society. In recent years, the government has invited civil society organisations, social partners and other actors to so-called EU Councils. They have been able to express their views on current EU issues. Through EU handshake, the government has been able to involve more people in the work to increase participation. A total of 77 organisations, not least municipalities and county councils, from all over the country participate in the work. They have, with handshake, committed themselves to strengthening the level of ambition in their EU-related work. For example, it is about including more people in the design of EU policies, better informing about EU-related work and working to increase knowledge of the EU. The interest and commitment really impresses. As a final midsummer greeting, I can advise all Members to take note of the publication "Enhanced participation in the EU", where we talk about all the proposals we have put forward and mention all the 77 actors by name. Happy Midsummer, everyone!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-822	Mr President, I would like to It is welcome that we now have an EU minister. We started this term of office without a Minister for European Affairs, and there was, of course, a shortcoming that many of us were surprised at and denounced. It is all the more fun that there is now an EU minister when we end the period. I am also pleased with the strong free trade voice I heard from the Minister. This is a picture of many of the rules we have being an obstacle to jobs and growth – a position that can also be seen in Sweden, Mr President. So there is reason to see this free trade ambition also when we are opening up and enabling more jobs in the country. However, I asked for the floor in particular to emphasise the importance of the EU having managed to enforce sanctions against Russia following the illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in Ukraine. Of course, it is important that we stick together and not back here. It was also important that we were many who marked after the Skripal attack in the UK. This shows that we can still stand up together on this issue. Of course, it would be good if we could also have common Magnitsky legislation at European level, but now we are not really there. What steps has the EU Minister taken to try to push ahead with achieving such legislation at EU level? After all, there are many EU countries that have chosen to go that way, so surely it should be possible to do so from the Swedish side as well.
i-u4CNverhYBpJGcpjPa3zx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question. I also think it is good that we have an EU minister! I promise to keep the flag high for free trade. With regard to the sanctions against Russia and the introduction of the so-called Magnitsky laws, the government has no objection to tightening sanctions against Russia. But we do not believe that the implementation of Magnitsky laws by individual countries will have an adequate effect. Sweden does not have its own, nationally decided sanctions. All our sanctions are UN or EU sanctions. The government's assessment is that, in order to be truly effective, sanctions should be EU-wide. This also reduces the risk of fragmentation of the EU community on crucial issues and of possible countermeasures reinforcing such fragmentation. We therefore believe that the introduction of EU sanctions requires unanimity.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-829	Mr President, I would like to However, individual EU countries have introduced Magnitsky sanctions. Canada, with which we have free trade, has chosen that path, as has the United States. What we propose and want to see is action by the Swedish side if we do not get there, and we know that this is blocked by countries that are close to the Russian narrative. This means that we must be prepared not to let ourselves be pulled down, but together with other like-minds dare to move forward – hook arms with Britain, Holland and Denmark, who are investigating, and with our Baltic neighbours, to try to build a stronger case and make it clear that we stand up for human rights and do not tolerate the death of human rights or political actors without consequences resulting from impunity. We have the opportunity to do this, because it is a situation where we are not carpentry on this ourselves in Sweden, but do it together with other countries in the European Union and try to coordinate us. This is the way forward. In order to develop the EU, it must also be prepared to move forward together. It is not always all behind it, but it is important to take the lead too. With this, Mr President, I would like to conclude by thanking the comrades in the committee, the President and the President's Office and, of course, the Office of the Foreign Affairs Committee as a whole and wishing everyone a nice summer, including the representatives of the government here today.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-832	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, we do not mind discussing this issue. We know that individual countries have imposed sanctions, but we do not believe that this is the best way. We believe that if we impose sanctions ourselves, we will contribute to the fragmentation rather than to cohesion. Today we are happy, because we have won our first group game in the World Cup. However, we also showed solidarity with the UK in connection with the neurotoxin attack in Salisbury by not participating in the opening of the World Cup. I therefore think that the government, both in terms of symbolic acts and really powerful things, such as conditionality and the Article 7 procedure for Poland and Hungary, is clear on these issues. I would also like to thank Kerstin Lundgren for good debates and discussions several times in this House.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-835	Mr President, Minister of the European Union Ann Linde! Last year, the European Commission initiated the social pillar, aimed at creating a coherent system for well-functioning and fair labour markets and welfare systems. This is camouflaged as a voluntary project and, like all voluntary projects, risks developing in order to create new institutions and authorities at European level. We can already see this in the form of a labour market authority at European level. The Social Democrats have previously said that they wanted to look at the proposal first. Do the Social Democrats intend to stop the new agency, or will the Social Democrats gradually hand over Swedish labour market policy to the EU?
i-ec853962355fdcf4-837	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Nissinen. We do not have any support in Parliament for a labour market agency. That is why, of course, the government will not put forward that proposal. With regard to the social pillar, we have always said that we do not believe that there should be any difference in competence between the European Commission and the different countries. I don't see the fear of this happening.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-839	Mr President, I would like to In our opinion, the social pillar has been an unnecessary measure, which also cuts through the Swedish labour market model. With this development, the times when the union and employer made up for the conditions in the labour market will be history. The Swedish model will eventually be replaced by EU legislation, in addition to the fact that the regulatory framework in the social pillar will lead to more regulatory constraints for companies, reduced growth and fewer jobs in Sweden and the EU. So, as I interpret the Minister for European Affairs now, the Social Democrats will not continue to support the social pillar.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-841	Mr President, I would like to There is no one who can accuse the Social Democrats of not standing up for the Swedish model. On the other hand, labour market and social issues have long been in the background in the EU. This made it absolutely necessary to take initiatives to get these issues up so that people are put ahead of the market, as we might say a little sloganically. At the same time, it is no wonder that the Commission is using its right of initiative and making proposals within the framework of what the Treaty provides. This has been the case since the EU was formed. It has been about the right to a holiday, to a certain number of sleeping hours and so on. Actually, it's just positive. This does not mean that the Commission should take over the powers that we have at national level. So I do not see it the same way. I believe that the issues have been raised in this way so that they are better prioritised in the European Union.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-844	Mr President, I would like to After Brexit and the inability to deal jointly with migration, President Jean-Claude of the Commission came to talk about an existential crisis and began sketching out various scenarios that we would discuss across Europe to arrive at a new vision for Europe. The EU Minister's speech mentioned how the discussion has started in Sweden and that the EU Minister looked very positively at the response received. Discussions are great, but somewhere we need to come up with concrete proposals and raise our voice in European cooperation. During the spring, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has visited a number of European capitals just to see how the discussions have gone and what visions exist for future EU cooperation. We visited Vienna, Berlin, Paris, Copenhagen and London. I was in the delegation that was in Paris. It has come a very long way and has taken many steps forward in terms of what it wants to achieve with joint EU cooperation. The discussions here at home are great, but they do not seem to have been heard down to the continent. We are being asked how we in Sweden view Europe's future and what great things we are fighting for. One wonders why there is not a Nordic voice, so that we can take more place in the discussion. My question is simply: have the discussions resulted in something that has been concretely introduced, or is it still a discussion club?
i-ec853962355fdcf4-849	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Mrs Damm. In Paris, they probably think we're a little tedious. We do not have the great vision that we should all move towards federalism and so on. We look more at the practical results and that we are moving forward step by step. This is also what we can see in the EU Councils that we have had on the six proposals – one main proposal and five discussion proposals – that the Commission has put forward on how to develop European policy. To sum it up, we are quite satisfied with how it is. We do not want to give more powers to the Commission, but we do not want to withdraw it so that we become an internal market that only deals with the economy. We want things the way they are now, but we want to put forward concrete proposals in areas that play a role for people. We may not have the same view here, but I really think that when we put social issues on the agenda at the social summit, we actually moved the positions forward. Many people have said this. At meetings, I keep hearing that we have now put social issues on the agenda in a way that has not been done in perhaps 10 to 15 years. So the answer is: No, we have no great visions like Macron. We want to continue our pragmatic work to see that things are happening that change the reality for people step by step.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-853	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that great visions should be combined with practical steps forward. It should not stop at visionary speeches, but, of course, we should take practical steps. But somewhere we must also have a strategy. After all, we will lose an ally with Britain leaving the EU. Do we want to approach Paris or Berlin, or who do we see as our allies? We must have some kind of vision for how we see the future and where we can be in the common European future. This can be developed by the Government. I would like to take this opportunity to ask another question now that I have the Minister for Trade here. In my speech, I mentioned that the EU's voice on human rights and freedoms is no longer as strong. I mentioned the agreements with Iran and Cuba as an example. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for European Affairs and Trade how the Swedish Government has ensured that we are strengthening the work on human rights and freedoms specifically with regard to Cuba and Iran, because those dimensions are not included in the agreements.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-856	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. It may simply be that we see different things as visions and as pragmatic work. Of course, we have issues that are at the top of our priorities. It's work, climate, migration and security issues. We don't want to move towards any more federalism. We have been involved, for example, in stopping transnational lists in the European Parliament and so on. In the different areas we constantly see what doesn't work and where we need to push. One thing that does not work satisfactorily, as I mentioned before, is the digital single market. Only this morning we could read that Sweden ranks high in terms of digitalisation, while a country like Germany ranks very low. This affects opportunities for trade, growth and jobs. We try to get to grips with this and say that we have to go in and push in different ways. I see the issue of allies as one of my most important. With Britain disappearing, as the honourable Member said, we may lose our most important ally on all issues except social and labour market issues. That is why I have tried very deliberately to ensure that Germany, for example, is one of our most important allies. Only last week I had bilateral visits to Berlin with my counterpart. Of course, I also took the opportunity to attend the Ministry of Commerce. He's been here. We've made a lot of moves together. We've been pushing questions about conditionality together. France, too, we're trying to work with. We do not really have as much common opinions there, but since it is a large country it is very important to have them with us. We also work with our Nordic neighbours, of course.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-860	Mr President, I would like to The list of speakers has been a little messy. So it's not football-related – it's important to get it out. My colleague Margareta Cederfelt will prefer the broad and broad visionary speech on the EU by the Moderates. This report is both large and backward-looking, but we can use it to move forward. Unfortunately, there is a great deal to be said about the EU's bilateral and regional relations, such as the fact that Russian aggression is the most serious threat to the European security regime since the end of the Cold War. On this we agree in committee. Sweden has been one of the driving countries in terms of sanctions against Russia in connection with the illegal annexation of Crimea. The EU has acted together and shown strength. The Moderate Party Movement also states that we believe that Sweden should push for increased sanctions against Russia within the EU. Sanctions may not always be very effective. They're very blunt. But when there are many of us who work together, they have an effect. But sanctions can also be tightened up. Mr President, I would like to In 2016, the United States introduced Magnitsky legislation. It is called that in memory of Sergej Magnitsky, who was killed in prison. His story and his restoration are driven by Bill Browser, who describes this in his book but who has also visited the Swedish Parliament and spoken at seminars. Legislation is an opportunity to impose sanctions on individuals involved in human rights violations. Several other countries have introduced similar legislation, such as the United Kingdom, Canada, Estonia and Lithuania. The idea is to strike straight where it hurts – in the money. It should not pay to commit serious violations of human rights. I appreciate the constructive climate of cooperation in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and I am very pleased that the committee's texts on the Magnitsky legislation were so good. I would particularly like to thank Mr Niemi of the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that it will be the best effect when Europe does things together. But Sweden will push for the sanctions to be extended so that people who violate human rights, who persecute, torture and kill Russian democracy and civil society activists and who live on corruption can be subject to additional sanctions. These principles can be implemented in individual EU countries. Swedish agreement on where we are going and on the principles is important. Now the Swedish Parliament knows what we want, and that is a start. There is a reservation from the Alliance which is somewhat sharper, but it starts by describing that we share the committee's opinion on the substance. The difference is the shape. It is complicated to legislate legally in this way, and it needs to be investigated by the government. That is certainly not impossible. After all, other countries have managed to introduce such legislation. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am in favour of this reservation, No 19 under point 7, which goes a little further on how this is to be introduced. But the important thing here is the overall unity. Sweden stands up for the principles of the rule of law. Together, we make a difference for human rights. I would like to take this opportunity in the last debate on the Foreign Affairs Committee of the parliamentary term to thank my colleagues in the committee. We have a very good cooperation. It is very often that the very enemy is not in the room. I appreciate the fact that we have a high ceiling and a constructive tone of conversation. It's very fun working with you. I wish some of you luck in the election and others not so much luck.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-872	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in report 2017/18.UU10. No one can avoid feeling Europe's challenges today. Migration flows in recent years have helped to unleash forces and ideas within the European Union that we hope to put far behind us. Today we see how right-wing populist forces are advancing. In many countries, not far from us, this gives cause for concern. Not long ago, I visited Poland. I had a conversation with their M.R. Ombudsman. He described how both the rule of law and media freedom are now being pruned in our neighbouring country. In several Member States of the European Union, it is seen how different regimes strengthen their influence in the judicial systems and how the opportunities for civil societies to work are reduced. There is great concern about how we should keep this together in the long term. Yet that is exactly what we must do. We must fight for the democratic forces and stand up for civil society and for what creates the tickle of the European Community. Our Union is based on common, fundamental values, which we have formulated together. These are fundamental values such as democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law – all in accordance with Article 2 of the EU Treaty. We have to trust that all the Member States live up to the criteria that we have jointly supported. Looking forward, I feel a concern about how these democratic criteria are being challenged. Outside the EU, many authoritarian regimes and dictatorships breathe today in the morning. When Europe is weakened in different ways, the voice of democracy in the world decreases. I can look back on my 20 years here in Parliament. The fight for fundamental democratic values and for human rights has not been as urgent at any time as it is at present. I am thinking of Russia's abuse of its neighbours, the illegal annexation of Crimea and the aggression in eastern Ukraine. In addition, China's increasing self-esteem and macro-plans for Belt and Road all over the world. And to this comes a United States that today challenges many of the basic rules of the game that have made us successful together – the EU and the United States. These macro-trends only underline the need for stronger regional cooperation within the European Union, but also with our close neighbours within the Nordic Community. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, as these are in all probability the last words I say in this speaker's chair, I would like to say a few final words. For 20 years I have had the honour, confidence and responsibility to be a Member of Parliament. It has in many ways been both instructive and exciting, but it has also been a hard journey. In 1998, when I entered the Swedish Parliament, I was one of the first twelve to be elected. I was simply checked into the Riksdag. I am proud that even now, when I have chosen not to run for Parliament, I am still personally checked and elected. Having close contact with my voter base is something I've been holding very high. I think that is how democracy is kept alive. It has provided for a close and intense presence in the constituency between all the international trips that I have actually undertaken these years. For a boy from a statar family from Österlen and a workers' family from Helsingborg, it has been a great honour to be here. We are many elected people who are not from Stockholm, and we live a shared life. We have our family in a place in the country and our workplace here in Stockholm or for that matter out in the world. On several occasions I have had joy from a distance. When my son Joel was born in 2001, I just got home. When my mother passed away, I didn't get home. This is the case when you share life between the family and being elected and have your place in the Riksdag. Looking back, it is not easy to know whether you have prioritised your time right as a elected representative. I myself have tried to devote my commitment to humanitarian issues, human rights, democracy and international relations during these years. I would like to conclude by thanking the voters in my constituency, my party the Social Democrats and my family and my friends for their patience. Being a democrat as I am also presupposes pluralism, and that is why I would also like to express my thanks to all my political opponents. Without you, it would have been rather sad to be a Member of Parliament. To the parliamentary administration and all its loyal and competent staff, I would like to express my warm thanks!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-889	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that my speech comes somewhat late on the list of speakers, because Karin Enström, who would have represented us moderates, was prevented. The Government's letter on the activities of the European Union in 2017 gives a good, comprehensive picture of the issues that have been addressed here in Sweden and how the Riksdag has acted in its positions. To debate retroactive questions is not always the most interesting. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to say that it is very important, because what happened in the past affects policies and positions in the future. The report is also a record of what the government has done and its positions on EU policy. In order not to miss it, I would already like to say that I am in favour of reservation 5. Of course, I agree with all the reservations, but, as usual, I do not support them for time-winning. I would like to begin by emphasising that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has a great deal in common when it comes to European policy, but there are also differences, something that has emerged earlier in the debate. I would also like to emphasise that today the European Union is the tool that we know best when it comes to working for peace, democracy and security. This has been the case since the Second World War when the EU was formed. We Moderates say that the EU should be relevant. It is not about the EU being narrow, it is about the EU being relevant – that the decisions taken at EU level should be relevant to the Union, to its Member States and to its citizens. The basis for Europe's cooperation within the EU is the meeting of people, the understanding of interdependence and the importance of common policies. As I mentioned, the most important thing that the European Union is doing today is to promote the four freedoms: the free movement of people, the free movement of goods, the free movement of services and the free movement of capital. EU legislation is often blamed for taking a long time. However, legislation involving 27 Member States must be allowed to take time. Forced decisions are rarely good, but risk undermining confidence in the European Union. It is precisely confidence that is essential to safeguard citizens' confidence in European cooperation so that the Union can live up to the promises made by the Member States in their membership of the Union. It is also important to remember that cooperation is based on 27 sovereign states and that what guides cooperation is the treaties and the will, the ability, to reach compromises. We need a clear understanding here in Sweden of what we want to prioritise, and Sweden should continue to be a leading nation within the EU working to ensure that citizens in the Member States get a good currency for membership. Here I would like to say that I am not entirely convinced that the government has focused on the right issues in order for citizens to have the currency for membership. I am thinking of the social pillar, which the government has pushed for Sweden to sign. This is something completely new that affects how the parties in Sweden should cooperate with each other, and it also affects the existing legislation. I know I have reported five minutes, but as Karin Enström is not present, Mr President, I will exceed my time unless the President interrupts me. ( TALMANN: You have every right to speak. ) Thank you, Mr President. In addition to the social pillar and the social partners, there is another important issue that the government could work more towards, and this is an increased Nordic cooperation. The Nordic countries and the Baltic countries are close to each other on very many issues, and after Brexit, the Nordic-Baltic region is the fourth largest in the Union. We could be more active than we are, and that is a matter for the government. Migration policy is another issue where we Moderates say that the whole of Europe must work together. Europe should be able to accept refugees, of course, but there must also be cooperation between the countries. Other important issues are environmental and climate policy as well as defence and security policy. In this context, I would also like to highlight the fact that the Europe that we have known before, with firm alliances, is changing. Here it is important that the democratic forces that exist continue to cooperate and find ways forward for us to have a Union where the citizens' will is at the centre of our attention. As has been highlighted by my colleagues in the past, I would also like to highlight the Eastern Partnership as an extremely important element. Sweden has been the driving force of the Eastern Partnership and must continue to be so. In my contacts with countries that are not members of the European Union but are covered by the Eastern Partnership, I regularly see the importance of the partnership. What is often highlighted is how the partnership develops democracy and promotes the development of legislation that not only regulates the country's legislation in itself, but also how the government and parliament of the countries should work and increase the economy. It is an important part, and Sweden can do a great deal here. I would also like to say something about the sanctions. Here, Sweden must not lose its ground, but must continue to work on ensuring that the sanctions that the EU has decided on are strong and apply where they are going. Unfortunately, Brexit is on the agenda. Here it is important that we in Sweden are sensible and continue to work to ensure that there is cooperation with the UK. It's a neighboring country! Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight another extremely important issue, namely the future of the consultations between the government and the parliament. There has been a long tradition in Sweden where the government has always consulted the Riksdag before participating in EU summits. Recently, there have been informal summits. This is due, among other things, to Brexit. Unfortunately, the government has not consulted here in the same way as before, but it has been about information opportunities. If the EU is to continue to have a positive foundation, it is important that the parliament also stands behind the government. The fact that Parliament sometimes disagrees is in a democracy. And it is urgent that it can continue. However, the government can also see Parliament's position as something that gives strength in the discussion with other EU countries. Being able to say that the Riksdag is behind a position is an asset. That is why I would like to make a contribution on this issue. In order for us to have an established European Union in the Swedish parliament and with the people of Sweden, the consultation that there is a tradition of keeping does not end, but needs to be strengthened. It is important that the Riksdag continues to deal with EU issues in accordance with democratic principles.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-910	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to endorse motion 4041. It is a motion in which we explain in 18 paragraphs how Alternatives for Sweden view the EU. The Europe we voted for in 1994 is not the Europe that exists today. It has mutated to something else, which we would not vote for today. We assumed that membership of the EU was positive for the peoples of Europe. Today, most of us would say no to the EU and yes to svexit in a referendum. Not only do we gradually lose our independence; the project costs huge sums, and we get a little back. That people don't see that Europe is the new Soviet Union goes beyond my understanding. It must be due to historylessness and a lack of knowledge of the history and politics of the last century. The main purpose of the Soviets was to crush the nation states, mix the population, call everyone soviets, in our case Europeans – with a new history. Nowhere was there greater ethnic conflict than in the Soviet Union. Does that ring a bell? Europe is governed by thousands of people whom we have not voted for, and the EU's laws are superior. It is an excellent situation for our own powers, who do not have to take responsibility and decide anything. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven brings this into absurdity in debates. On every hot issue, he refers to the EU. In the run-up to EU accession, it was very much a matter of not giving up our independence and freedom of action as a nation. Many were sceptical and afraid of losing the nation of Sweden in the long run – that it would be weakened and even dissolved. This has more and more come true over time. We gave up much of our national freedom, but there were increased difficulties and increased vulnerability. Sweden has turned into a completely new country that citizens do not recognise and do not want. Every newscast is filled with negative effects from completely uncontrolled social changes. It happens in so many ranks. Once a grand European vision is increasingly showing its true face. The little man is constantly standing back as a loser in his own everyday life, while the complex of official cadres and various types of bureaucracy is growing. They grow and thrive in their ambitions of power. Power wants more power and also secure it. They do so at the expense of the individual countries. The more power in Europe, the less power to individual nations. The more binding agreements, the more tied we become. Humans have always striven for power. Power fattens the ambitions of power. If people have the opportunity to expand their power, they'll take the chance. But power has the ability to concentrate and fall into fewer and fewer hands. Then it's dangerous. If there are too much benefits and too little transparency, the organization quickly swells into a self-propelled power apparatus that is designed for its own sake and where one keeps one another's back. Shouldn't we have learned how to grow grass on the grounds? After a while it becomes wild and overflows. There is no limit to how much a bureaucracy can grow if you don't make sure to keep it down. It's a self-governing monster that tends to soak up all the nutrition there is. Sweden is often hailed in the EU because Sweden is probably the best obedient state. Sweden is very serious about everything they do, while other countries often say yes and then ignore EU laws. A nation always has external borders. The EU does, too, but the difference with the past is that in Sweden we ourselves had military, customs, police and coastguards who in various ways marked, patrolled and defended this external border. Within the EU, the defence has not followed. We now have a much larger geographical area and an ever longer external common border. These borders cannot be defended by the European Union, nor, therefore, by the borders of the nations involved. It is easier to have grand visions of the future, but it is much more difficult to reverse developments. Man prefers to look forward, full of faith in the future and hope. It is first behind her the failures have been lined up and become visible. But then it's too late. The road is done. Honoring the UK, which had the courage and courage to drop out of the EU project. Honoring the former Eastern states with Hungary as the leading nation that dares to slow down an evocative and destructive top-down migration. They see what has happened in countries such as Sweden, Germany and France and draw their conclusions. Recognizing failures is rarely easy, especially from the ruling peak. That is why we are calling for full progress, even though everyone knows, deep down, that Europe's attempt at even more open borders is already a major and disastrous failure. The failure poisons Swedish domestic politics, and the election is expected to be very ugly. You don't dare admit your mistakes. The failed migration policy and other failures are also lined up. The politicians responsible do not know where the brake pedal is; let alone they use it. I guess backing's too much to ask. I believe that the European project is beyond rescue in its current form. It has less and less popular roots. The model and the steering are so bad that there would be a need for a big cleaning or something completely different, smaller units, for example the Visegrád group, or for Sweden a Nordic cooperation union. A Union for the whole of Europe with countries that have fundamentally different conditions, and with a power-full elite regime that has lost touch with reality, is doomed to failure. Mr President, I would like to Dissatisfaction has increased with politicians, with the EU and with ruthless globalisation, thanks to the fact that people can now seek and find impartial information on the internet. Even those in power have picked up on the popular discontent that people have vented in social media and in alternative media. It seems that the solution they intend is not to change developments and normalize policies, but to ban discussions and ban the description of reality as it is. I would like to draw your attention to a directive on copyright which will be adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs of the European Parliament on 21 June. If the law goes through, the internet as we know it now will change completely – for the worse. The law means that a fee will be introduced to link to copyrighted material. In addition, automatic filtering will be introduced to stop uploading copyrighted information such as text, image, video, audio and code. The consequences can be dramatic and lead to many unforeseen and unwanted consequences. The new EU copyright directive goes against the interests of the people. I urge you to do everything you can to stop the law. Save the Internet from EU Link Tax and Online Censorship!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-927	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with a few words from Martin Schulz, former President of the European Parliament: The British have rested the rules. It is not the EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate. In Swedish: The British have broken the rules. It is not the philosophy of the European Union that the mob can shape its own destiny. This anti-democratic and populous statement was delivered by Martin Schulz after the British had voted in favour of Brexit. The EU was created by and for non-elected bureaucrats, and it is also governed by non-elected bureaucrats. Today, the EU is the most important engine for the efforts of the globalists to take power from the former free peoples and put it in the hands of a small, globalist and non-elected elite. You in the sick leaves and the rest of the establishment have stolen freedom from the Swedish people. You have sold out the freedom of Swedes to foreign interests. For example, you refused the Swedes to vote on the Treaty of Lisbon, the greatest transformation of Swedish society in modern times. You denied the people this referendum because you knew that there had been a resounding 'no', just as it was during the EMU referendum. The sick leaves and the other politically correct establishment are doing everything to silence and shape the debate on the EU according to their own agendas. The media barely examines the EU, and the establishment does not raise a finger – after all what they say – to broaden the debate around the EU. What you have done is a bureaucratic coup behind the back of the Swedish people. The whole establishment stands together on this issue, but as with the lie about the good intentions of mass immigration and multicultural society and the good impact on our society, your lies about Europe will collapse. Globalists are happy to spread scare speech about what will happen if we leave the EU. Among other things, we are constantly hearing how dependent we are on the European Union in terms of our trade. The truth is that in Sweden today we are forbidden to conclude our own trade agreements as long as we are in the EU. Instead, we will compromise with all the other countries involved in the EU before a trade agreement can be concluded. Everyone with some kind of logical ability to think understands that Sweden's influence will then be minimal. Iceland is doing well outside the EU, and Switzerland is doing well outside the EU. Iceland, for example, concluded a trade agreement with China in 2013. Sweden has also concluded countless trade agreements before joining the EU. An export-dependent country like Sweden is best off concluding its own trade agreements. Other myths we are fed with are that if we leave the EU, it will be difficult to travel, study and work in Europe. Let me remind you that, for example, the United States and Australia, which are very popular in terms of studies and work, are two countries that I know are not in the European Union. Here, therefore, Swedish people work and study. One of the top tourist destinations for Swedes is Thailand. As far as I know, Thailand is not part of the EU. If we leave the EU, there will of course be some form of agreement to regulate, for example, studies between Sweden and other EU countries. Due to the dismantled borders that the EU has imposed, wage dumping, drugs, weapons, grant immigrants and criminal gangs flow freely across the previously safe borders of Swedes. The mass migration wave of 2015 could have been halted significantly more effectively and faster and probably would not have reached the scale it did if the EU had never existed. In fact, it is worth showing the passport sometime a year to avoid these negative consequences. Mr President, I would like to What we are seeing now, on the other hand, in the country after country in Europe is the windfall of freedom. For you globalists are losing, and we nationalists – who have been constantly fighting for the right of our peoples to democracy and freedom, despite the spit, tease and mockery we are constantly being subjected to – will win. You are trying to censor us by, for example, building institutions at European level to prevent free speech. Among other things, there are proposals for legislation at national level in Sweden. You are trying to threaten us with the help of anti-democratic street hooligans, but you will never silence us. Of course, your lies about what would happen to the British if they voted for Brexit were not fulfilled. You claimed that their economy would crash shortly after they voted in favour of Brexit, and despite the doomsday rhetoric that took place, we can see that the British economy is still strong. The same experts said that Sweden would join EMU. If Sweden had joined EMU, the financial crisis of 200 8 could have ended in a veritable disaster. The same experts also lie that Sweden would be disadvantaged by leaving the EU. Sweden would benefit both economically and socially if we left the EU. Security would be strengthened in different segments of society and criminals could be combated much more effectively if we regain control of our own borders. Mr President, I would like to The bureaucratic coup that has been carried out will now be met by a popular nationalist awakening, as we have seen in the other countries of Europe. The Swedish people are beginning to understand that they have been deceived not only in terms of mass immigration and multiculturalism but also in terms of the EU. They understand that they have been deceived by the politically correct politicians whose loyalty lies with foreign bureaucrats and foreign interests. The Swedish people are beginning to realize that it is we nationalists who have been right all along. As more and more people realize that they have been deceived, more and more of the politically correct parties in the sick leaves will also fall out of parliament. We will once again have a parliament dominated by parties with a nationalist basic view that protects the Swedish people. The time when wage-dumpers, criminals and grant immigrants freely cross borders is soon over. The time when serious and environmentally conscious Swedish companies will be forced to compete on skewed terms with rogue foreign companies is soon over. I am proud to belong to the nationalist popular movement which fights for democracy and freedom and which fights against anti-democratic, liberal and socialist forces. I am pleased to belong to Alternatives for Sweden, which, with immediate effect, wants to stop paying the EU membership fee by reference to the broken agreements that several countries in the EU have been guilty of. I am happy to live in a time that marks the end of globalism and the beginning of an era in which the people are once again given power, where multicultural society is being dismantled and where all the contributors you have imported will be sent home. Mr President, I would like to Alternatives for Sweden will require Sweden to immediately stop paying the EU contribution of nearly SEK 40 billion if we gain influence after the election. Alternatives for Sweden will require us to leave the EU as soon as possible if we gain influence after the elections. It is time for the Swedes to take back the right to shape their own destiny. Sweden for the Swedes, the Swedes for Sweden!
i-ec853962355fdcf4-941	Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of motion 4041. Cooperation between nations is necessary. The nation that is not prepared for cooperation is doomed to lag behind economically and culturally. That is probably why, nowadays, one never hears anyone speak warmly for isolation. All of us in here agree on this. Nevertheless, there is a need for a debate, and the debate is important. We all remember the turnaround of the Social Democrats on the European issue and the 1994 referendum on membership of the European Union. We remember how the supporters claimed that the EU was only a matter of cooperation. The time before the referendum I was a local center party in Örebro. I read the newspaper Parliament & Department and looked in open EU sources to see what it really was about, and it was already clear then that the EU had supranational tendencies and thus was not just a cooperation. The EU supporters certainly included both those who did not understand how the EU would develop and those who understood but who liked the development of a superstate that slowly developed behind the scenes of just being a cooperation. It is well known to everyone how Europe has developed in reality since then. Today I belong to Alternatives for Sweden and I can see that the forms of a new monster state have become increasingly clear and that the right of decision has slowly, step by step, been moved from capital cities to Brussels. Brussels has developed into a power centre freed from the Member States. The Brussels bureaucracy today has its own vote and looks down on the Member States. The principle of subsidiarity does not give any self-determination, but only demonstrates the chain of command. EU law is above the constitutions of the Member States. It is not just about an EU national anthem, an EU flag and a common external border without internal borders, but also about thoughts about future tax law and an EU war power. The EU is a state in the making, and it is a development of evil. Europe's strength is multifaceted, not uniform. I usually compare with competition law. We do not want monopolies in free business, and that is why we have competition law. A similar relationship applies to the Europe of nations. If we allow the bureaucrats to be held, they will cast power in their own form. The nations of Europe can only be preserved for the future if we fight for it and safeguard the necessary institutions. My dream is that all Europeans together would guard the Europe of nations. Step by step, slowly and piece by piece, the monster state evolves. But we are also seeing another development today. We see that the EU colossus is faltering. Brexit is one example. The British have voted in favour of leaving the EU. The EU is over-chewinging too much. The development of the Eastern Partnership and the Southern Neighbourhood does not make the EU wider and more stable; on the contrary, it initiates the EU's destruction. On this point I remember that my first party, the Center, made a logical hill change. The centre, which on paper was fighting for local self-determination, excused the fact that it is positive that the EU is growing with more Member States. But the more Member States, the more uniformity there is in fact. Competition between countries is the only thing that can keep democracy alive. Democracy is superior as a method of government but is always threatened by the central power's ability to dominate. Let us do as the British do and leave the European Union. Let us be on the same terms as Norway and Switzerland. I will now highlight two serious aspects of the EU's current developments: the plans for the EU's common defence and EDF, the European Defence Fund. Since the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, has come up with visions of the future security of the European Union, the European Commission has now put forward a concrete proposal to militarise the European Union. This applies both in an operational sense through an EU defence policy and a strategy to take control of Member States' defence industries. Of course, Alternatives for Sweden are opposed to militarisation of the EU. The security policy option we have now and are living with is better than the EU option. Today, the United States and NATO are balancing the major powers China and Russia. Sweden is not part of NATO but has its own role. We are building a threshold effect while at the same time contributing to de-stress in the Baltic Sea region. Sweden is seeking regional cooperation, mainly with Finland. The European Parliament voted on 22 November 2016 for a common EU defence with numbers 369 against 255. The members of the Swedish alliance parties then voted in favour of a common EU defence. As a result, the European Parliament does not own the issue. But it shows a worrying trend. The Alliance parties in Sweden do not want to know how their own MEPs have voted. The EU's take-over of power is, as often as possible, hidden in fog curtains. It is now said that the EU's defence functions will not duplicate existing structures. Of course this is nonsense. As alarming as the plans for the EU's common armed forces are the ambitions for the EU's defence agency to take political control of Member States' defence industries. The Defence Procurement Directive allows Member States to directly procure defence equipment from their own industry. Governments Reinfeldt I and II did not use this opportunity despite the fact that other EU countries protected their defence industries. Now the EU has changed its strategy and wants to politicise the conditions for the defence industry at EU level. The programme for the development of the defence industry is now being drawn up on the basis of a Commission proposal. Materiel collaborations will be initiated politically and designated industries will benefit. The European Defence Fund is planned for this purpose. Suddenly, the free market is no longer the goal. The European Commission has a strange reasoning as a basis. They believe that fewer defence equipment systems are produced in the US than in the EU and that the European defence industry needs to be consolidated. The problem with the comparison is that it is one-dimensional. Yes, the United States produces considerably fewer systems, but they are often of lower quality and almost always much more expensive. The example doesn't hold. The development cost of JAS 39 Gripen, for example, was only 7 1⁄2 per cent of the cost of the development of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. It was fortunate for Sweden that the Riksdag in 1982 voted 176 against 167 in favour of the Government of Fälldin's proposal for a Swedish fighter aircraft. If Sweden had bought U.S. F-16 or F-18, we would have stood at a clean cost. Instead we got JAS 39 Gripen, which has become a profit for Sweden and our economy. International cooperation on materials is today a key to the success of the defence industry. Swedish defence industry finds partners efficiently on its own. It should be noted that many strategic partner countries are not EU countries. Bringing together successful and not successful defence industries and putting the EU as a group management would be a disaster. If first-class defence equipment systems can be purchased from domestic industry, it is economically very beneficial. The United States does so knowing that the money goes into the American economy and also creates a lot of wasteover effects. In addition, exports are favoured. Sweden should do the same, i.e. increase orders for domestic defence equipment such as Gripen, combat vehicles, submarines and more.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-960	Mr President, I would like to In the last six months, I have often been asked the rhetorical question if we do not have more important things for us here in the Swedish Parliament than to discuss the so-called wood stove ban. I wish I could give the answer: yes, we really should. However, when we have a government that instructs its authorities, in this case Boverket, to develop a new regulatory framework that in practice prohibits the re-installation and re-installation of used stoves and wood stoves, we must react. It's symptomatic for our time. When you have a lot of big problems ahead of you, instead of taking care of and trying to deal with the problems, you start to engage in inventing problems that do not really exist. I would like to say that the so-called wood stove ban – the ban on reinstalling space heaters and stoves – is a typical example of a constructed problem that does not really exist to a large extent. Through its authority, the Government has put a lot of time and energy into this, in a situation where Sweden faces many significantly larger and more serious challenges. It is therefore gratifying that a united committee today beats the government and Boverket on the fingers. Let me quote from the committee's report:'The committee notes that the stricter rules for buildings with space heaters decided by the Boverket... are not necessary to meet the EU's ecodesign requirements. In the past, both Boverket and the government, through the Minister for the Environment of this House, have argued with emphasism and stubbornness that the new rules were necessary to implement the Ecodesign Directive. As we all know, the Ecodesign Directive only applies to new products. This means that in the Ecodesign Directive there is no justification for introducing regulation of old products that are already on the market and that are traded on a limited scale. That is the case with used wood stoves and stoves in Sweden today. The committee also notes that the amendment of the rule risks leading to financial losses for individuals. It also risks jeopardising cultural historical values when stoves and stoves can no longer be reinstalled. And it weakens the robustness of civil society. In times of crisis, it is important for civil society to be able to use alternative forms of heating, for example. It is unfortunate that Sweden has a government that has allowed this to happen. It has allowed Boverket to develop a regulatory framework that is not needed and which on all three points weakens society. It is therefore gratifying that the government parties in this House have also realised what time it is and that they have not chosen to opt out of the Alliance's proposals on this issue. Let us remember that if the Alliance had not paid attention and pushed this issue forward, Boverket's rules would have become permanent. Now we are faced with a situation in which we have an unusually sharp announcement to the current government. The committee notes that the Government should take immediate action that means that we permanently go back to the old rules, i.e. those that were in force before 2017, when Boverket implemented the new regulations. Mr President, I would like to Transversal does not mean in a year or even in a quarter, but it means that the government needs to start working on this right now. Unfortunately, I have limited hopes for the current government in this respect, given that it is this government that, through its directives, has commissioned Boverket to develop the regulatory framework with which we are now falling. But let me be extremely clear that a new government will certainly ensure that Boverket is forced to tear up this regulatory framework. The Boverket has so far acted in such a way as to postpone the permanent date of entry into force of the regulation. So there has been political sensitivity. I hope that we are also sensitive to the debate we are having here today. The committee simply notes that the proposed regulation is not necessary to maintain the Ecodesign Directive. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, I am in favour of the moderate reservation.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-973	Mr President, I would like to Today we will debate the letter Strategy for Living Cities – policy for sustainable urban development, which the government has developed for discussion in the Riksdag. It is about the environment in general and the living environment in particular. These include the opportunities to promote alternative means of transport for cars, for example, in order to create better conditions for better air and for the environment on the whole. In this area, anticipation of social planning is important. This is something that the Swedish Democrats often press for in these debates. This is important in order to create the conditions for an environmentally friendly society and for environmentally friendly travel. It is also important to discuss the lifetime of housing. The government and the Alliance jointly push for new housing, including through the law of instruction that has forced municipalities to provide housing for newly arrived immigrants. They are forced to develop modular buildings and similar housing at a rapid pace in order to arrange accommodations. Of course, it does not favour the strategy put forward by the government and debated today by the Parliament. We need to motivate and enable more environmentally friendly means of transport. And we need to enable more efficient public transport. This can be done, among other things, by increasing the densification of our cities. In this way, more people are making use of the public transport that society is offering today. At the same time, densification means greater security for citizens. The more people who live on a smaller geographical area, the more people move and are out in the evenings and weekends as well as during the day. This increases security. There are many important aspects that can be highlighted to justify increased public transport and increased densification of today's living environments. The government is talking about facilitating cycling. The aim is to promote cycling in cities. We believe that, at the same time, it must not mean making things more difficult for people who are car-borne. We have a large sparsely populated area, countryside and outer areas where you are dependent on a car to transport yourself in your everyday life. You are dependent on infrastructure and parking facilities. At the same time, to promote cycling, it must not impair people who depend on their car. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats – as I assume most parties do – are behind creating better conditions for using environmentally friendly alternatives such as public transport, cycling and other vehicles to make their way forward in an environmentally friendly way. On this issue, there is no major conflict. However, it is about everyone being able to live according to their own conditions. The Government proposes that it should be possible for municipalities to introduce environmental zones. The Swedish democrats are very critical of that. We believe that in many respects it would make it more difficult for those who do business and also for those who depend on the car in their daily lives. That's the wrong way to go. Today's technology development promotes greater conditions for a better air and environment in large cities. With regard to environmental zones and other proposals included in the letter from the government, it is important for the Swedish Democrats to highlight municipal self-government. This must not mean that the government runs over the municipalities and their community planning, foresight and methods to create the conditions for a good air and environment. This also applies to the conditions to stay in parks and the like. Here it is important to maintain local self-government. We believe that this is the best way for municipalities to be able to work on these issues. Furthermore, civic influence is important. Citizens' dialogues and other conditions are important to involve more people to discuss these issues, but also questions about the housing environment, security issues and aesthetics in society, i.e. how to build communities, living environments and housing so that it becomes beautiful, peaceful and pleasant areas to live in. It benefits both the environment in general and overall. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude this speech by calling for the approval of reservation 2 from the Swedish Democrats.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-985	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with an explanation why it is I, and not Leif Nysmed, who is in the speaker's chair. Leif Nysmed has been prevented because of sad circumstances in the family. My thoughts are actually more with him and his family than in this House right now. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs' report 39 The strategy for cities and cities contains horizontal objectives for sustainable cities and new milestones in the environmental objectives system, together with priorities and new actions focusing on environmentally sustainable urban development. The strategy contributes, among other things, to achieving national environmental objectives, but also national targets in all other policy areas as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Agenda 2030, and in particular the Sustainable Cities (SDG). Mr President, I would like to The Government wants to strengthen the conditions for municipalities to develop green, healthy and safe cities where people meet and innovations are created. We believe that cities need to be developed so that all dimensions of sustainable development – environmental, economic and social – are exploited. According to the Government, cities have the potential to meet many of the climate and environmental challenges. Work on sustainable urban development is important for achieving environmental objectives. Increased housing construction offers opportunities but also challenges on the way to sustainable urban development. Sustainable cities can be inclusive and accessible urban environments that offer all people an attractive and green living environment with a closeness that makes it easy to live their everyday life and, for example, move forward in a much more sustainable way, why not on foot or by bicycle. A holistic approach to planning together with smart solutions contributes to cities where people can live climate-smart, healthy and safe. The Government presented the new sub-target for sustainable cities in the 2017 budget bill, pointing out that sustainable, living and equally designed cities are a future issue. Cities need to be attractive and safe. Cities need to be planned for people according to different needs and conditions, not least in terms of walking, cycling and public transport. However, it is important to emphasise that many of these solutions exist locally. They are located in our municipalities around the country. Mr President, I would like to Urban planning will also steer towards sustainable urban structures with efficient land use. It is important to promote walking, cycling and public transport in front of passenger car traffic. They are important starting points for future urban planning. The transfer of journeys from passenger cars to walking, cycling and public transport reduces the environmental impact and climate impact of travel. It is important that transport infrastructure is planned to maintain a functioning green infrastructure linking the city's natural areas. It is also important that the development of buildings is planned so that good conditions for sustainable transport are created. Sweden will switch from fossil fuels to 100 percent renewable, and Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The Swedish Parliament has decided that Sweden should not have any net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 at the latest and then achieve negative emissions. Then it is important that we make decisions here and now and do not put it in front of us. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-999	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin this exciting debate with the background to this report and this letter from the government. The background is, of course, that since the 40's and 50's we started planning the cities based on the car as the norm. You'd give the car maximum space. It was quite conscious of the politicians of those days. Researchers were simply sent to the United States to look at how they had done there. Then they took it to Sweden and implemented the car community here on a wide scale. Large parts of the Swedish cities were demolished in a way that gave maximum space for the car while reducing the space for people and businesses in the city. This has had quite far-reaching consequences. The two major consequences are that the climate challenge is becoming more difficult and difficult to manage. The second is that it has become more boring and less attractive cities. Let's start with the climate that has become a consequence of the implementation of the car community in Sweden. The Transport Agency is clear that if we are to meet the climate targets that most of us in this House agree on, we need to cut back on driving. As a representative of a Green Party, I base myself on facts and take them to heart, reason and formulate policies for where and how the reduction should take place. In this respect, we can indeed see that there are two different ways of dealing with this challenge. We know that we need to reduce car traffic in Sweden. We choose to put forward policies to reduce it in the urban environment. Other parties will choose not to listen to these facts but to pretend that this is not a challenge. But we know, as I said, that transport by car needs to be reduced in Sweden. Then it is an excellent idea to do so precisely in the urban environment. The second consequence of the implementation of the car community in Sweden is purely physical and comfortable. We've had worse urban environments. We've had impoverished city trade as a result of this. It goes without saying that a means of transport that is as surface-efficient as the car fits very well, for example, in sparsely populated areas, where such means of transport are needed, while surface efficiency in cities, where surface is scarce, is the worst thing you can think of. As a result, cars take up perhaps 80 percent of the street space in our cities. But the surface used could have been used in many other ways. Just take a parking space as an example! Today, it does not cost much compared to the alternative profit that could have been obtained if there had been an on-site activity, such as an outdoor restaurant. The car stands still 97% of the time. It's badly used. On average there are 1.2 people in the car. It also has other negative effects on the urban environment, not least on our air. These are a series of consequences of the car society that we have and that we have built up in our cities. First of all, the climate is very alarming. The second is the purely physical – the street space and the comfort of our cities. A good city is of course a city that has greenery and which you can cycle in and feel safe in, a city where an 8-year-old and an 80-year-old can walk or choose to cycle and where you hear the children's laughter from the greenery. That's what we want when we talk about cities, but that's what we don't get if we have a too widespread car society. That was the background. Then let's take a closer look at politics! The first thing that is very gratifying is that we finally have an urban objective. This means an increase of 25% in walking, cycling and public transport to 2025. There is also a reference to the fact that, in the long term, we should double the proportion of walking, cycling and public transport. This is simply needed to meet the challenges we just talked about. There will be more room for everyone if more people choose to ride a bike. The efficiency of the transport system increases significantly if more people choose to take public transport instead of getting into their car. In order to achieve the urban objective, the government works with urban planning agreements, among other things. The government has introduced a new state aid that is now permanently in the national plan with SEK 12 billion over twelve years. This is a support that has a very clever design. The state can participate as co-financier and participate in investments unless the municipality chooses to renovate its urban environment and make it more attractive. One example is that we are now building a new tram line in Lund. Around the country there is investment in public transport, walking and cycling. It's a very big green impact in politics. Number two is environmental zones. As I said earlier, car traffic with the current fleet makes air quality radically worse and makes the air directly dangerous. I find it very distressing that we do not have more support in this House to introduce environmental zones or open up for municipalities to introduce them. Somewhere you choose – especially the Moderates but also other parties – to take the perspective of diesel drivers here instead of taking the children's perspective. Children and the elderly are the hardest hit by the diesel exhausts released into our cities. These are children who simply cannot breathe the air without the risk of becoming ill. That priority, Mr President, makes no sense to me. I cannot understand for everything in the world that you can take the perspective of drivers rather than giving priority to children's health. So open to environmental zones! It is then the municipalities themselves that decide. If you are so afraid of environmental zones, why not stop them at municipal level instead? The third area that I would like to mention in politics is the various state aid that the government is now working on and which has an impact across our country. Climate change is central to electrification of transport. 17 000 charging points in three and a half years – compare that with the eight years of the alliance government, when we got 2 000 new charging points. It is an incredible pace of investment now in electrification of the transport system. The e-bike premium is, I think, a very central part of getting rid of unnecessary motorism in the urban environment. Over 30 000 applications for electric bicycles have already been received in just a few months. There's a huge potential here. We can take Stockholm as an example. 110 000 people live with a commuting distance that allows them to take the bike in less than 30 minutes but today takes the car. There is a huge potential in shifting unnecessary car commuting traffic to a bicycle. Last but not least, we now have new support in place, which is about making use of the incredibly important ecosystem services that exist in urban areas and in close agglomerations. This is about taking advantage of what already exists, developing it and making it more pleasant and pleasant. Not least, it is about taking advantage of, for example, increased precipitation, which we know now comes with a warmer climate. Finally, I would just like to mention a few things that we need to do more in the future. We need to have an increased focus on bicycle and bicycle infrastructure. We need more government investment. We need to open up the possibility for municipalities and regions to have access to the land in order to build more bicycle infrastructure. We also need to recognise that transport policy should aim to streamline and reduce the number of transport by car. We have now introduced the flight tax, which is absolutely central to cutting back on flying. But we need to work more with measures to reduce even car traffic. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1019	Mr President, I would like to South ore has spoken! I would like to ask Mr Lorentz a few questions. The first is what he thinks the politics of the party he represents is doing for individual people's wallets. Lorentz Tovatt here is talking about banning diesel cars. That is certainly not a problem at all. No, it may not be if you just move on a bicycle in the inner city of Stockholm. But Sweden is bigger than Stockholm's inner city. Due to policy instruments, a majority of all cars sold in Sweden are now environmentally friendly diesel cars. But through an alexander hem with Environmental Party policy, these diesel cars would probably lose a large part or almost all of their value as they become impossible to use in Sweden's largest cities. Only the two largest lenders on the private car market lend SEK 60 billion annually to Swedish families who make the largest purchase alongside the home – the car – to be able to drive their children and get to work. It is an investment that, with the policy of the Green Party, risks becoming completely useless, simply because you should be able to maintain idealism and the vision of being able to cycle around Sweden's major cities. Is that a responsible policy? And is it responsible to spend SEK 1.7 billion on electric bicycle subsidies? Your government coalition partner usually numbers bets in the form of assistant salaries, Lorentz Tovatt. Four thousand nurses or 1.7 billion for the e-bike premium? That's what the Sossians would say.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1025	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin! I think I almost heard it wrong. I think Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin mentioned environmentally friendly diesel cars. It will then be almost strange, because I spoke about the enormous problems that we are facing as a result of diesel cars in the urban environment. Here we are talking about people who get asthma. They get COPD. It is 5,000 people a year who die prematurely. It's people like us in here. It is people who are affected by diesel cars having the right to drive on all the streets of Sweden. The environmental zones are about giving municipalities the opportunity to shut down and remove diesel cars from certain streets of the city. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin chooses to express it as a general ban on diesel cars. That, of course, is not true. It is a populist rhetoric to say that it is a general ban on diesel cars. It is simply a matter of people being affected. People get sick, children get sick, and older people get sick. The people who die prematurely choose Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin to ignore instead the car lobby and prioritise those who drive diesel cars in the urban environment. That priority is incomprehensible, Mr President, that the right of diesel drivers to drive on every small street in every city in Sweden takes precedence over children's lungs and people's well-being. It doesn't make any sense.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1030	Mr President, I would like to It may seem remarkable to me that I am accused by Lorentz Tovatt of having a populist rhetoric when he himself stands in the pulpit and tries to make it sound like somehow I would not care about people who have the bad luck of dying prematurely. It is obscene and unworthy of the speaker's seat. Let me say that, while hearing the fierce rhetoric of the Green Party, we have noted from a long series of studies that the harmful particle levels in Stockholm are falling. This is contrary to environmental party rhetoric. The proposal that your own party has sketched out at Stockholm City Hall would in practice mean a ban within customs. It is not a single street we are talking about. There's a ban inside the tariffs. This means that even people who live elsewhere in Sweden get a car that is useless because no one on the secondary market wants to buy a car that you cannot go to Stockholm with. That is the simple truth, and that is what you are turning a blind eye to. Lorentz Tovatt also forgot to answer the question: What about the priorities of a government that spends SEK 1.7 billion on luxury consumption? These are bicycles that cost an average of SEK 20,000. It is a contribution that is used exclusively by people living in big cities. Have you considered the distribution profile of the aid at all? It can be said that electric bicycles in themselves are good. There's no one in here who thinks electric bicycles are bad. In recent years, sales of electric bicycles have increased by several hundred percent. We do not need to spend tax money subsidising electric bicycles. No to e-bike gain outside welfare! one might say a bit rhetorical.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1036	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with the e-bike premium. It will be very exciting here. The party represented by Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin chose for eight years to strongly subsidise luxury consumption in the form of diesel cars. That's exactly what it is. They had an environmental car premium that went to diesel cars. I believe that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has been fooled by the car industry when it comes to the environmental friendliness of diesel cars. He's standing here talking about environmentally friendly diesel cars. But, okay, they chose to subsidise diesel cars with billions of dollars. As a result, the air is now dangerous to breathe in our cities. That's the consequence. It's not here. It is not me who has produced the figure of 5 000 people who die prematurely, but it is the facts. It was simply chosen. Now that we want much less to subsidise electric bicycles that do not affect our air quality, but on the contrary contribute to a more healthy air quality so that our children do not get sick, it is wrong according to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. Please subsidize diesel cars, according to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. But do not subsidise what is actually good for the environment, according to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. I would like to conclude with what has been said about Södermalm. We, on the part of the government, make a distinction between cities and rural areas in the letter. That is why we are producing a letter. We want to be able to influence in the right direction precisely as far as the cities are concerned, so that people outside the cities can continue to drive. That's what it's all about. If we are to cut back on motorism, which we need according to all the measurements, we need to cut it down where it is most effective to reduce, that is, in urban environments. In addition, an electric bicycle is also excellent. Then it is not at all true to seek more premiums for electric bicycles in the big cities, but vice versa. Your own Member has commissioned an inquiry to show that those living in rural areas are ordering the premium more often.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1044	Mr President, I would like to Before I begin my speech, I would like to comment on what was said last time. It's amazing. Here we hear a member of the Green Party say that there is a difference. This is a letter that is not about the whole of Sweden. It is a letter about Södermalm and Storstockholm. I'm so angry, I don't know where to go! We are talking about an e-bike premium. It is equally accessible in rural areas in that case. But let's calm down. The climate issue, the spread of toxins in food chains, the reduction of biodiversity and microplastics are serious threats to the living conditions of our planet. This, of course, means, by extension, the greatest threats to our common well-being. Lifestyle and socio-economic factors today have a greater impact on people's individual health and life expectancy than previous housing and working environments. When we talk about sustainable and living cities, we get close and affect people's everyday lives directly. Sustainability is usually divided into three sub-areas: economic, ecological and social. It is difficult to briefly capture all aspects and at the same time keep in mind what I said earlier, namely that Sweden is bigger than the big city. An effective and practical environmental and climate policy should take into account the whole country and not put different people's needs and interests in the way of each other. Unfortunately, we see various examples of this. When the government introduces air taxes, it is a threat to the ability to travel throughout the country, and the threat of introducing a kilometre tax is another such threat. We react strongly when a ban on wood stoves, which may be harmful to health when used in cities, means that it will also be prohibited to install older stoves in new houses and masonry in the rest of the country as described in the Boverket proposal for a regulation. Some of the criticism of the proposal was based on assumptions and was certainly exaggerated. But just as with other prohibitions, such as the construction of a beachfront or the expansion of a small hydroelectric power station, it is felt that the interests of the countryside have to give way to the interests of the big city. The fact that there is an environmental impact is not obvious to everyone, but it is often perceived as a cleavage. The kind of conflict created by, for example, the ban on wood stoves does not build trust and community around the environmental measures necessary for us to cope with the planet, biodiversity and the living conditions of all who inhabit our planet. Confidence, dialogue and local anchoring are always to be sought. All alliance parties have chosen to comment on the government's letter Strategy for Living Cities – Policy for sustainable urban development. We have similar starting points, but we do in part set different priorities. Climate action must be a high priority and a top priority, but it is the result that counts. Unfortunately, we have to note that climate emissions are increasing with the Social Democrats and the Green Party in power, while they decreased by 19% when the alliance parties were responsible. Despite what Isabella Lövin says, it's true! It is the difference between big words and effective measures, between red-green symbolism and local politics, that produces results. With a new government and a strong centre party, we maintain our ambitions, but we promise to improve the results. Increasing the accessibility of public transport is closely linked to how we build regions and send strong land. It is therefore unfortunate that the government cannot provide information on either how to define high-speed trains or how to finance them. Urban environmental agreements may be important for some cities, but in the policy that we see being pursued with regard to the high-speed train, the whole of Sweden's negotiations seem to be in a hurry. The uncertainty that exists about such an important investment in housing and the environment lowers the credibility of the government's climate policy significantly. For me as a train commuter between the west coast and the capital, heavy delays and cancellations are the rule rather than the exception. There is also reason to criticise the unilateral movement of iron wheels and rails in relation to road transport on rubber. The Kilometer tax strikes blindly against all transports, including the environment-friendly ones. This, in turn, affects those who travel, run businesses, build houses and try to carry out municipal activities over large geographical distances, both in urban and non-urban areas. I personally have taken the initiative, as a center-party municipal councillor in Kungsbacka, of a coordinated distribution of goods to the municipality's activities that are procured with fossil-free fuels and with a central warehouse to which everything that is intended for the municipality's operations can be delivered. It reduces the environmental impact and increases safety through fewer transports. As a bonus, it provides better conditions for locally produced goods in the kitchens of schools, preschools and retirement homes. The Center Party defends local self-government and has no objection to the municipalities themselves being allowed to set up environmental zones with a ban on studded and fossil-powered vehicles, but we would like to emphasise that decisions should be taken locally and with regard to those who have to comply with them. We are even critical of the social democratic rule of the City of Stockholm, which hesitates to introduce environmental zones. We do not believe that a municipal ban on, for example, certain types of older diesel vehicles in city centres would be detrimental to residents in other parts of the country. However, it would be good for the Stockholmers. The use of car pools should be an option for those who want to use a car for a limited period of time in a place where they do not stay for long. Unfortunately, however, there is a lack of definition of car pools, which makes it difficult to build on the activities that exist procured municipally or as newly developed services in a collaborative economy. The increase in the number of charging poles, as claimed in a previous speech, is rather the result of more people buying the cars, i.e. the result is market-driven. The cycle is also on the rise, and it is the market that drives this development. The E-Bike subsidy of SEK 1.7 billion is a clear example of misguided symbolism. There is a natural demand for different types of bicycles. This is not the result of a subsidy, it is because the conditions for cycling are improved and the bikes themselves are improved. With the bike as a fifth mode of transport, it is possible to better take it into account in a transport policy context so that more can be achieved in terms of exchange opportunities, better roads and routes for bicycles and increased space for the bike in national and regional plans, not only for tourism but for commuting and as a healthy alternative to the car's surface-demanding presence in city centres. Mr President, I would like to Parking spaces occupy a large area in the most attractive parts for residential and centre development. It should be possible to build denser cities with more people, greater variation between forms of employment and a better mix of people with different backgrounds and economic conditions. From the Center Party we like to see a densification – but it should not be at the expense of green areas, urban cultivation, meeting places such as squares and playgrounds or areas for sports and exercise. Location collaboration with a Swedish model of so-called BID, business improvement disputes, is something that the Center Party is driving for. We would like to see a study aimed at improving the opportunities for property owners, tenants and residents, together with the municipalities, to increase the attractiveness, security and community of neighbourhoods and centres which are currently struggling with exclusion, abuse, petty crime and vandalism. We in the Center Party would rather see developments that involve a switch to renewables than general bans and cost increases that only affect those who have no alternative. We support our particular opinion, but we have no objection to the letter on which decisions are based. We welcome the fact that this report takes a decision to withdraw the provisions prohibiting the re-installation of certain types of older wood stoves in conversions and notes that it is a unanimous committee that proposes this.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1066	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, I just want to correct Ola Johansson in terms of reducing Swedish climate emissions. As a matter of fact, they do. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the authority responsible for monitoring Swedish climate targets, clearly indicates that we are reducing the emission gap and that emissions are decreasing. Secondly, I think that Ola Johansson misunderstood some of what I said earlier. I find it very strange not to understand that the countryside and the cities have different conditions. That's what it's all about here. We must realise that, for example, people who live in sparsely populated areas are in greater need of a car than they are in an urban environment. I hope that Ola Johansson and I agree on that. It would be quite bizarre to think that there are exactly the same conditions in rural areas as it does in urban areas. The same with the e-bike premium – it is not sought more by city dwellers than by sparsely populated people. It's all right and good, I think. But it is clear that there are different conditions, and that should be taken as a starting point. Then I have a question for Ola Johansson. The policy of the Center Party is often very, very many things for everyone. You have very great faith that the biofuels, the chemicals, will be enough for aviation, for cars, for trucks, for shipping and so on. At the same time, we know that the Swedish Transport Administration is clear that we need to reduce motorism in Sweden in order to meet the climate targets. Those are facts. Depending on what Ola Johansson answers to the first question about differentiated politics and different conditions, the question is: Where does Ola Johansson want to reduce motorism?
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1070	Mr President, I would like to We can argue about the facts about emission reductions. Isabella Lövin's claim that climate emissions are increasing with a new government is proven. Let us return to that question. We're right; she's wrong. Another concept that I am opposed to in Lorentz Tovatt's speech is sparsely populated. He repeats the word sparsely populated. In my world, rural areas can be a phenomenon, a name for something. But I choose to use the word rural, because people living in rural areas are also citizens of society. People living in rural areas also visit the urban area or the big city from time to time – relatively often. Making that kind of distinctions and making a difference between urban politics and politics for the whole country feels strange to me because people are moving. People are moving. People should have the opportunity to do their errands and use the means of travel that make the city accessible as well. The whole thing for everyone was a cliché thrown out about the Center Party. One could turn it around and claim that the policy of the Green Party means a little to some. I don't think that's the successful way here.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1073	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I really got a lot of answers. The first thing I can say is that Ola Johansson seems to think that living in a city centre is in some way the same as living in rural areas or in sparsely populated areas – call it what you want. I have another view, namely that if you live sparsely and, for example, have longer to work, you are in greater need of a car. I hope and believe that we are in agreement with the Centre Party on this; at least we have been in the past. That is why we want to differentiate the travel allowance: because we realise that in many people there is a need to have a car. If the Center Party has changed its mind on this issue, it would of course be very exciting for the debate. I have a question. Annie Lööf said at the end of the last election campaign that you choose not to go forward with a bonus – Malus system for cars, because Volvo had called her and said they didn't want one. Now we come back to this with diesel cars, air, health and such things. The Alliance chose for a lot of years to subsidise car purchases strongly. It was not just about the most sustainable cars, but it was chosen to subsidise diesel cars, which harm our children's and our elderly's lungs. Now the Center Party is making a big scene that the government chooses to a much smaller extent to subsidise something that is completely clean, i.e. electric bicycles. How does this make sense? Why does the Center Party want to subsidise diesel cars? You're even doing that in your bonus proposal-- Malus-- you're putting subsidies on diesel cars. And why would we want to remove the entire subsidy for electric bicycles, which we know is so good for human health and for urban air quality? It's really weird. I really don't understand how this goes together.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1077	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lorentz Tovatt! In the last shift with Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin it seemed that it was a deadly sin to introduce, at a stage when we had many very dirty diesel cars, a bonus-malus system which meant that these dirty diesel cars were more widely replaced with less dirty diesel cars. Now Lorentz Tovatt starts by criticising the withdrawal of a bonus-malus system which he advocates in other contexts. There is no logic in the reasoning. A bonus-malus system can be a positive incentive to switch from environmentally harmful activities to less environmentally harmful activities in the transport sector. But what is it that says that cycling with only muscle force is environmentally harmful? What are the environmental problems we solve by introducing electric bicycles, when we have bicycles that are not particularly fossil-dependent in their normal use? In fact, I think that is a legitimate question. We can also see that car dependence is different depending on where you live; that is quite clear. There is also reason, as I did in my speech, to criticise the fact that it is the amount of parking space that constantly forms the basis for new housing projects in cities. I see this at home too. Here we need a conversion where we use different types of car pool systems, in order not to make us dependent on that parking lot. But that also means that, whether we are in cities or in rural areas, we may, under different conditions and at different times, have a need to use the car. It is not the same, I mean, as constantly counteracting the use of cars in the way that Lorentz Tovatt does with his policy.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1082	Mr President, I would like to A home is not just the home you live in. It's not just the roofs and the walls. It's the whole stairwell, the neighbors, the life between the houses, the whole neighborhood. It is the sun that rests on the balcony, the center with shops, gyms and system companies. And it is the children, who can play on the farms, bike and run around in the residential area without the risk of colliding with a car. It is also about what opportunity you have to move from there and then back. For example, the Left Party has made it clear that young people will be allowed to go on public transport free of charge this summer. It gives freedom to move and visit areas outside their own residential area. We value the freedom of movement of the small, but also of the cyclist and the pedestrian. It should be easy to cycle to work, and it is especially important to seal around our public transport stops so that we do not build ourselves into an even greater dependence on cars – cars that stand still by most of the time and that require more and more space in the cities. I think of my own parents, who have always had a car but a while ago went over to use the car pool instead. They were incredibly pleased with this. I've never seen them so happy. It's cheaper and less complicated. The car is of course much more modern and better. It creates a much greater freedom for them in life. Of course, this does not work for everyone, but certainly more people can use car pools instead of having their own car. We want to see urban planning that is ecologically sustainable and that prioritises cycling and walking. But it is also important what we build, in terms of both housing and community properties. Today there is an abundance of bad building materials on the market. There are companies on the market just to make quick money and then hand over the property to a housing association, which of course cannot be an expert. This is a combination that entails a great need for controls and clear rules for what we build into our houses. Today, it is to a large extent the construction operator who controls himself and his own building. I would have liked the government to pay more attention to this in this letter. It's really premeditated and less thorough investigations when you control yourself. It is basically a rather bad system; we must agree with that. Perhaps you need to take a closer look at this. How many times have I met people who, for example, bought new homes where things easily break or there is no light release? In a project that I saw a few months ago, the whole house was at the wrong angle, and the rain went right into the apartment. The question is: Are we really building the right way when so many people today buy a newly produced dwelling and then blow out the whole dwelling and push in new things? And is it sustainable that we have such large tax subsidies for this? Instead, should we not find out more carefully how people want to live so that we do not have to deal with this type of transformation, which I do not think is sustainable in the long term? Information and guidance to municipalities is important. The Left Party has been involved in setting up information centres for sustainable construction, for example. But remember that the foundation on which this should be based is the tools for municipalities to manage urban planning through the detailed plan and, for example, be able to prescribe the form of lease in it. There must be a land policy and laws and rules that facilitate local authorities' land policy. It doesn't today. The municipalities are the player in Sweden today who needs to pay more for the land than all other actors. Remember that the most important thing is that there are tools that enable the municipality to control the construction in advance – not afterwards, once it is built. Detail plan, management in urban planning and all the building permits available are therefore important for the municipality to be able to control. This is, I mean, the important thing that the letter should be on. Perhaps the government should come forward with further proposals. Living cities are also about democracy and freedom. We're all entitled to the whole city. It is not only a visiting right, but also a right to live and live throughout the city. This is a right that needs to be maintained all the time, by building affordable housing everywhere. It doesn't really matter whether it's about nurses, preschool teachers, bus drivers, brokers or economists– everyone needs a place to live. That is my opinion. Perhaps one would think that everyone would agree with this, but we do not agree. There are fundamental differences in values in this House as regards whether people should be allowed to live everywhere. Bromma is one of Stockholm's most prosperous areas. The left-wing municipality has proposed a few weeks ago that hundreds of rental apartments be built in the area, which today is characterised by expensive villas. But look, not everyone agreed on that. The bourgeois parties and unfortunately also the Green Party have succeeded in stopping this project. I guess you're thinking that well-to-do Brommabor shouldn't have to mix with ordinary people. What would it look like if rental apartments were built for normal wage earners, who might then be able to live next to a manager? The bourgeois have thus put an end to the construction of new rental apartments in Stockholm, while at the same time demanding more conversions into residential apartments. This is not the first time the bourgeois together with the Green Party has stopped the construction of homes in Bromma. Last time it was about 300 homes along Västerled. Those of us who could read the local newspaper Stockholm Direct could see that the chairman of the Liberals in Bromma reacted directly to what she perceived as a threat, i.e. that they should build rental apartments. She said that the Social Democrats wanted to build new homes there, because S does not have an electoral base in this part of Bromma, and that there has been urban planning for more than 100 years that can under no circumstances be changed. The representative of the Moderates believed that building rental apartments in residential areas had unfortunately become a pattern for the Social Democrats, something he naturally opposed. Perhaps the saddest thing in this story is that the Social Democrat Stefan Hansson on the question of more exploitation proposals should be put forward in the area answers: I am not ruling out anything, but I am not going to say that we will continue in this area either. Mr President, I would like to It is sad that well-to-do and backward, and once again the nimbyists are able to prevent us from building away the housing shortage. It is about building so that everyone has the right to visit, live and live throughout the city. It is not wallet and family inheritance that is important without personality and interests. Future construction has been hindered. I believe that we can help to build our cities together and make them more alive. There is room for both the children and the elderly. There, girls should not always have to be fed with commercial messages that they are not good enough. It is easy to leave home in your 20's. But this also requires us to see what obstacles and problems are out there for us to modernise urban planning.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1102	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. We Moderates see it as a matter of course that urban planning should be done in a sustainable way, both from an economic, social and ecological perspective. Historically, urban development has followed the paradigms of economic policy. During the post-war period, however, development took a different direction: Cities were divided into pure functions based on a physical plan economy where central bureaucrats conducted the content. With inspiration from the USA, a suburban model was developed with homes, workplaces and centres that were separated from each other. The introduction of rental regulation in 1942 in combination with an acute housing shortage led to the implementation of the million-dollar programme, which resulted in additional suburbs and ultimately led to the segregation we see today. A sustainable urban development policy must therefore be based on both environmental and social aspects. It's about how we can seal and build new neighbourhoods with mixed tenure forms, adequate public service and pleasant public rooms – all in order to reduce segregation and insecurity. I am the first to endorse the importance of cities taking advantage of and integrating urban greenness into urban planning. However, this cannot reasonably be an additional regulatory requirement of the State but must be based on a voluntary commitment of the municipalities. It is the municipalities themselves that know best how they can and should use their land resources in the best and most efficient way. Physically, the structure of the city is fundamental to its sustainability. According to research, this means not least a dense city where distances are short. Proximity also means density in the sense of housekeeping with limited land areas. At the same time, however, this means that there must be a long-term strategy for which green areas should be saved and for which places, for example, a new urban park should be built. Mr President, I would like to The Government has commissioned Boverket to come up with proposals for a developed method for urban green and ecosystem services in urban environments. However, we assume that such a method does not substantially restrict local self-government, and that it does not make it more difficult or costly for municipalities to develop urban areas. The government mentions sustainable transport. I think that is a good thing, not just because I myself do not have a driver's license and am totally dependent on public transport. Unfortunately, however, the government chooses to politicise the issue, and I think that is a bad thing. Public transport is the only thing mentioned in the overall objective – the car is not mentioned at all. The government also highlights its irresponsible proposal for environmental zones as some kind of general solution, even though in practice they ban diesel cars, which, as Mr Bohlin said, will affect 1.3 million car owners: one of their biggest investments will be completely useless. Mr President, I would like to It is easy to get the impression that the government's policy for sustainable cities is based solely on a Stockholm perspective, where public transport to a greater extent than in smaller cities, such as my own Gränna, makes it possible for people to set the car. Outside Stockholm's inner city, the car is often a prerequisite for making everyday life go together. It is therefore remarkable that the government is so clearly failing to propose measures that could facilitate a change in order to make the car a more sustainable mode of transport. In the letter, the government mentions the bill Politik för utvecklad living environment. It proposes that, architecture, form and design should contribute to a sustainable, equal and less segregated society with carefully shaped habitats, where all are given good opportunities to influence the development of the common environment. This is, unfortunately, problematic, as we have seen in the past in dealing with this particular proposal. As an objective in the field of civil engineering, it is too complex and open to interpretation. It risks further hampering the already poorly functioning planning and construction process. What the Swedish construction sector does not need is more policy objectives and orientations to take into account, regardless of how well-lawful these are. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by stating that the government's policy for sustainable cities and for faster and more efficient housing is not much more than an air castle. The ambition may be commendable, but the various sub-objectives will lead to difficulties for municipalities in how these should be interpreted and whether something should be prioritised before anything else. Unfortunately, there have been four lost years with this government. I do not know how many times we have stood in this House debating housing policy proposals that lead to more state interference and more charges than to more housing and better urban structures. The letter we are now debating, Strategy for Living Cities – Policy for sustainable urban development, unfortunately, is just another example of this. However, we look forward, Mr President, to the results of the ongoing investigations referred to by the Government in its letter. Our hope is that parts of these, after all, can lead to a cross-block agreement for the long-term sustainable development of the country's cities, moreover, as I hope, under the leadership of a moderate-led alliance government.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1116	Mr President, I would like to First of all, of course, I would like to pay tribute to Mats Green for parts of his speech, not least the beginning. Historically, the picture that Mats Green provides is correct, that is, of the implementation of the car community in Sweden. In fact, at that time Mats Green's party was on our side, along with those who later started the Green Party. Mats Green's party was on the same side as us in the fight against the car community in the inner cities. On the other side were social democrats and liberals who demolished houses and built motorways in the urban environment. What could be opposed to Mats Green's picture now is, of course, that his party has long left that line. Instead, they are now on the side of the car in the construction of our cities, where they want to build new motorways in an urban environment. Well, I didn't get any wise answers last time when I asked Mats Green's fellow party about the environmental zones. Mats Green was now himself involved in municipal self-government. It is interesting that Mats Green first says that he thinks that municipal self-government is very important and that only half a minute later he is very opposed to opening up the possibility for municipalities to decide their own streets to a greater extent. I find that logic strange, because this is basically about municipalities knowing for themselves whether it is unreasonable that certain streets have such dangerous air that you cannot breathe it in without the risk of becoming ill. To give municipalities this tool should rhyme with Mats Green's care for municipal self-government or at least the municipalities' ability to make their own decisions on important issues. Why be against this?
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1121	Mr President, I would like to First of all, there are a few comments about the car. Let's say hate the gas but love the car! Regardless of what you think about the car, you should not deny that it is absolutely crucial for a functioning society. This applies both to those parts of Sweden that are not located in a big city and the parts that are located in a big city. The government punishes people and punishes families, mostly families with children, who are completely dependent on the car. In addition, the car may be their biggest investment after the accommodation. So this will not bring any environmental benefit at all. Then I come to Mr Lorentz's question on environmental zones. Of course we always maintain local self-government. But above all, we safeguard opportunities for people, individuals, in Sweden to have a functioning life in every way. In a balance between ensuring that people have the best possible conditions in their everyday lives and caring for state or municipal regulations, it is of course the individual's needs and the needs of the individual families that come first and foremost for us Moderates. If we are to have a balance between government regulations and municipal regulations, I can say that as an old councillor I may have a certain preference for municipal self-government. But if you are going to give additional opportunities to introduce difficulties for citizens in Sweden and for the cities' ability to grow, develop and grow, it is clear that our balance is clear. There we go on the perspective of individuals and families.
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1125	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Mats Green! One figure has now been mentioned: 1.3 million cars or people are affected. We still need to get this clear somewhere. This is not a diesel ban. It is not the case that the government with the environmental zones prohibits diesel cars – quite the contrary. The first thing that happens is to open the way for municipalities to make an assessment. On a street where they have very dangerous air they should be able to shut out the cars – they can drive in the rest of town. It can be a street where there are certain physical problems, such as the closeness of the houses, which keeps the emissions on the street itself. It may be that there is no other way out than to actually stop the cars in order for the air to breathe in. Is it a problem, according to Mats Green, that 1.3 million car owners should not be allowed to drive on that particular street? They can drive on a parallel street. Is that hitting all 1.3 million diesel cars? Of course it does not. It is almost a bizarre claim that it would hit these 1.3 million diesel cars. Then it actually skirmishes when Mats Green talks about families with children, because it is the children who are most affected by diesel emissions. It may also be their grandmother or grandmother who die prematurely because of the issues they are exposed to. I come back to the question of priorities. What is the priority? Is it the right of diesel drivers to drive on every street in Sweden, or is it the lungs of children and the elderly?
i-ec853962355fdcf4-1130	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to discussions on diesel and total bans, only the Green Party has had such discussions. I do not know how many environmental partners I have heard at both national and municipal level who say: But in fact, we should ban diesel as quickly as possible. You may not be saying that in Parliament's pulpit. However, there are a number of other Members who, formally speaking, are still part of the Green Party's parliamentary group, even if you may wish them not to do so, and who say quite clearly that this should be banned as quickly as possible. Then we say: No, that is totally unreasonable reasoning. We must always give people a transition time as well as give the country as a whole a transition period. If you now think that the Green Party is being misunderstood on this issue, you probably just have to look yourself in the mirror and see what it is you say yourself. What kind of signal do you really want to send out? Again, stop punishing individuals and individual families for something that may be one of their greatest investments in life! And again, love the car but hate the gasoline!
