i-980db8b76e68bacc-1	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Committee's proposal for Category 2. When the House decided a little over a month ago, on 14 November, on changes to the public service financing system, this meant that the agreement with Radiotjänst in Kiruna had to be terminated. Radiotjänst has been a large and important employer for Kiruna and Norrbotten. I am extremely pleased today that, as a Member of Parliament representing Norrbotten County, I will be able to take part in ensuring that compensation jobs are created in Kiruna in connection with the closure of Radiotjänst. Radiotjänst's employees have lived in uncertainty about the future for a long time. The bourgeois budget approved by the House is now giving some of our government agencies an increase in funds to establish operations in Kiruna. Within Category 2, the National Service Centre will be provided with the funds they have requested to contribute to some of the replacement jobs that are now to be created. For 30 years, Radiotjänst employees have ensured that the funding of a politically independent public service has worked. They have in their way helped to maintain a free and open democratic society. Today I am pleased that these workers can go on Christmas leave knowing that we in this House have made a wise and good decision.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-5	Madam President, I would like On a Friday, the last day before everyone is going on Christmas leave, I know that not everyone appreciates getting up and prolonging the debate. But I'm so forced. I won't hold you for more than half an hour. I swear. I am pleased that Mattias Karlsson is so pleased that we are united in the investigation that has been carried out on Radiotjänst. We need to do something for those people who are currently affected by the restructuring, closure and other things that are taking place with Radiotjänst. I am very pleased that Mattias Karlsson wants to do something about the problem. But I want to give a more nuanced picture of how the situation really was and is. We all know that the government has had to present a transitional budget, which meant that it was not allowed to take very many new initiatives and other things. You were a little paralysed. There have been discussions with the bourgeois that one might find something about replacement jobs and other things in Kiruna. The creditors said no, which meant that the transitional budget had no such proposals. That is also why we will do something about the problem as soon as a new government arrives. Is there, then, work that has been going on to date? Yes, sir! What exists is the so-called Kiruna package. Before Mattias Karlsson and the Moderates awoke, there was a work going on between the ministers, the relevant members who were then sitting in the Chamber and the union Union. The package that was developed already in June and then covered 120 new jobs means strengthening parts of Lantmäteriet's operations, establishing an office for the State Service Centre and developing the Tax Agency's activities in the field of taxation. I am glad that we are really united, but I want to give a more nuanced picture. I also believe that the 3 1⁄2 million that the bourgeoisie puts in the unfortunate napkin sketch that M, KD and SD have presented will not help with everything. It is still nice that we agree and that Mattias Karlsson now jumps on the train and wants to help with the Kiruna package.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-10	Madam President, I would like It is always possible to make empty promises for a government. Once it has been about delivering a so-called Kiruna package, those promises have gaped quite empty. Okay! V i has had a transitional government which may not have had the opportunity to present the budget it itself would have wanted. However, we could also have agreed between the parties in committee to put forward proposals to add money to these authorities. However, the Social Democrats chose not to do so, which means that these employees could have gone home on Christmas leave in doubt as to where their replacement jobs had gone. If it wants to be really bad, we don't get a government without an extra choice, which means that it goes many months before we have a package in place. But with the bourgeois budget we now have money, and I think that Mrs Adnan should be pleased about that.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-13	Madam President, I would like I think I said too many times in my speech. I don't think I've ever been that happy. No, I'm not really that happy. There is talk of 3 1⁄2 million that the bourgeoisie has presented. These funds will not create all the jobs needed. If so, it will be very cheap jobs created in Kiruna. As I said in my speech, we have had discussions between various ministers and fiscal spokespersons in the various parties. There it has been very clear that nothing new in addition to the pensioner tax should be included in the transitional budget. That is why what we are now debating has not been possible. We have therefore chosen to respect the approach that should reasonably be applied by a transitional government. That does not mean that we have not worked on the issue. There is a broadly ready proposal which we would have liked to have included but which was not allowed to be included. I have explained that proposal. Already on 15 November, Minister Peter Eriksson, who is fertile from there, went out and was very clear that he would have liked to have included the proposal. Unfortunately, it did not work, but the bourgeois side was very clear that the only thing that would be involved was the pensioner's tax. If it had been as you said, Mattias Karlsson, this question had already been resolved. But we have been a little tied up by the parliament's decision to remove the government but did not exactly have a plan for what to do then. There we are today. We hope to be able to resolve this as soon as possible.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-18	Madam President, I would like But is it the case that the Socialist parliamentary group has also been tied up? It is surely the case that you could have given a follow-up motion in this area of expenditure and contributed this money to the State Service Centre. Now it is not just the State Service Centre, but money has been added to a number of other authorities as well. It's about the IRS and Lantmäteriet. 3 1⁄2 million is the money that the National Service Centre has requested to create activities and jobs in Kiruna municipality. In this situation, when Adnan speaks of nuances, it is about the fact that it is the bourgeois budget that has provided resources for creating replacement jobs. The Socialist parliamentary group has chosen not to do so but just wait for a new government to come into place, as we have seen can drag out of time for a very long time.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-20	Madam President, I would like The Socialist parliamentary group has supported what is the transitional budget. We have chosen to respect the process of government formation that is currently under way. We would have liked to see a government in place much earlier. It is not we who have created the situation we are in today, but it is above all M, KD and SD. It is in fact all the Members who elected to vote away Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister immediately after the election. We had discussions at the Ministry of Finance about doing something together but got a no. I hope that as soon as we get back after the Christmas holidays, we can sit down in the new government and do what is actually already done with the so-called Kiruna package. Those affected by this deserve a quick answer and a quick end to it. They live in uncertainty. There we are today. One of the most important reasons why we in the Social Democrats have not wanted to put forward anything ourselves is because we have not wanted to tie up a future government. It is somewhere that the proposal that is currently going through may not even be valid for a month. It is not very good for the government, regardless of the colour that will come. It is not a serious approach to vote for something one day quickly in order to have to withdraw everything when a new government is in place in the next turn. It would have been much better if we had done something together in broad agreement or waited so that the new government, regardless of the colour, would have the right conditions to do something with the money available.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-24	Madam President, I would like We had a number of talks across the block on how to think in a situation where we would produce a transitional budget in the autumn. I sat, to my knowledge, at all meetings across party boundaries when we held those talks. Adnan Dibrani was present at zero percent of those occasions. Yet Adnan Dibrani is some kind of expert how those talks were going on. Any limit may be to how many times you have to repeat a lie in this pulpit. It is not true that the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals said: No, you must not put the Kiruna package in the transitional budget. That's a lie. It's never happened. We had a number of talks about which principles would be reasonable to hold as a steering year as a transitional government in this new situation. We were also very clear that we felt that the principles that the government based on and presented and that we discussed were reasonable. Representatives of all those parties have said this from this speaker's seat. We believe that the government did, in essence, a good job with the transitional budget. However, as far as the scope and delimitation of the document were concerned, we were very clear. It must be the transitional government that owns the transitional budget. It is not a joint negotiated budget. We talked about principles and exactly where the boundaries went. What a government can put into a transitional budget was entirely the decision of the transitional government. The fact that a proposal – let us say, for example, the Kiruna package – is included or not in the transitional budget is absolutely crucial to the transitional government. It is entirely the transitional government that owns the transitional budget document. That's the truth. Everything else is false even if it is repeated by Adnan Dibrani on several occasions in this speaker's chair or in the speaker's chair for lines. Thank you, and Merry Christmas!
i-980db8b76e68bacc-31	Madam President, I would like These are Christmas days, and there seems to be no dividing line in Kiruna having the replacement jobs. I think we simply note that we all agree on this now. Then there has been a trip here that I think we could say quite a lot about. I myself have taken part in the negotiating room and I also know that it has been agreed along the way until the transitional budget was presented with what it would contain or not. We have slightly different views on this, Emil Källström. But now it's Christmas. It's great that the transition jobs are in place. The proposal for them could have been put forward in an additional amending budget by a new government, which would have been possible. They could have been part of the transitional budget if we had agreed on it across party boundaries in the past, but that was not the case. It's over, so Merry Christmas!
i-980db8b76e68bacc-34	Madam President, I would like I wonder how many times in the last few days it has been repeated from this House that the country is in an exceptional political situation. The process and principles for the transitional government's work on a transitional budget have been communicated and its constitutional role has been described. We Social Democrats have consistently maintained that all efforts must, of course, be directed towards putting an effective government in place. It was against this background that we Social Democrats chose to support the transitional government's budget proposal. It was for us a responsible way of enabling a incoming government, whatever its colour, to make its mark on economic policy. For at the end of the day, only a powerful government can take on the challenges facing Sweden. It will then be a little more ironic to hear all the praises of all bourgeois parties about the government's work on the transitional budget and then see them stir up motions and present their own proposals for economic policy in spite of the situation. Or perhaps that was precisely why – to cause chaos and mess in the ambition to reach the taboos of power themselves? The profile of the now talked about napkin sketch is classic right-wing politics with large tax cuts with the most for those who already have the most. Madam President, I would like It was a unique situation in all respects when, on 12 December, the Riksdag voted through a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats that was supported by the Swedish Democrats and that we are now debating the consequences of. No one, absolutely none, had a coherent picture of the content of the framework to which the decision was based. It is a situation that is most regrettable. To enforce the state budget on such base assumptions of this content is remarkably irresponsible. There are many of us who affirm order and order in politics. It would be desirable for all the arrangements applied to the budgetary process to be sorted out. Very well! H out of it now than wherever and is with the lack of wholeness: As usual, the devil sits in the details – excuse the language. It is about the practical consequences of the country being ruled on a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats and on a number of reports. One of these reports is what this debate is about, specifically the report by the Committee on Finance FiU3 Area of expenditure 25 General contribution to municipalities. These are important conditions for the producers of welfare, our municipalities and county councils. This expenditure area includes the conditions for municipalities and county councils to carry out their activities. These include, for example, the municipal economic income compensation and the compensatory allowance for LSS, to name but two of them. Compared to the transitional budget, the report proposes that the general state contribution should increase by 4.1 billion next year. On the surface it looks pretty good. I regret, of course, that the support for additional services has been removed. But otherwise the funds of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats in this area are almost, but not fully, in line with what we Social Democrats went to elections on. Madam President, I would like However, we need to look at the whole, and the whole gives us a clear picture of the priorities of the right-wing parties. Taxes are to be reduced by approximately SEK 15 billion, while municipal welfare activities are to stand back. What makes things even worse is the lack of order and the lack of reasonable and sensible conditions for politicians and officials around the country's municipalities and county councils to plan their activities responsibly. With about ten days left until the end of the year, one can first question how valiant municipalities are in their work by a few scant tables that no one knows how long they will last. Secondly, the municipal economy is not only concerned by category 25. The financial scope for municipalities to employ an additional pre-school teacher or more nurses for care for the elderly or to offer children swimming education is affected by far more budget lines than those we are debating now. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is most serious for those who are seriously affected: children, young people and the elderly who are not allowed to take part in the efforts that municipalities so well need to make in a wide range of areas. Sweden's general, jointly and severally funded welfare is our strongest distributional policy tool. Access to care, school and care as needed rather than after income is a prerequisite for an equal society. Sweden is facing a demographic shift. While we live longer and longer, more and more children are also born. This is a fantastic development, but it is also a challenge for municipalities and county councils. In order for well-being to be able to keep up with and develop, significant reinforcements to the local government sector are needed from the state side. We need to invest in welfare, not lower taxes for the already wealthy. The budget that has now been voted through will, if it stands – god forbid – mean cuts in a number of other areas of expenditure such as school, care for the elderly and construction. This causes the small, very small, increases in the level of this expenditure area to fade quite quickly. On the whole, this budget does not provide real resources to the municipalities, but vice versa. Madam President, I would like Since we Social Democrats do not support the framework decision that has been adopted, we also refrain from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in Category 25 and refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the College of Presidents, Parliament's fantastic officials and colleagues in the Committee on Finance a truly merry Christmas and a happy New Year!
i-980db8b76e68bacc-52	Madam President, I would like It was fascinating to listen to the post. I agree that we have a difficult political situation, and I think there are several honourable positions in this situation. I have not criticised the position of the Social Democrats, but I think it is a reasonable position to go on the transitional government's proposal. For the Christian Democrats, however, it has weighed over when we have seen the major problems that we have in society. The Parliament has a full responsibility. Parliament has the financial power and is not a transitional holiday. That is why we have chosen to put forward a number of proposals, with which I think Ingemar Nilsson should be more satisfied. Now the billions come to welfare, now the investments in health care and care for the elderly are coming and now the investments that enable more staff in school. But Ingemar Nilsson says instead that it is bad, because then the municipalities get worse planning conditions. Ask the municipalities if they want the money or if they want planning conditions! I think they answer that they want the money, because it is needed in welfare and it is needed to do everything that the municipalities do. It is important not least from the point of view of distribution that welfare services work, and they have not worked during this term of office. Ingemar Nilsson says that we should not have any tax relief for the wealthy and that we should not reduce the tax and give the most to those who already have the most. This is therefore a social democracy which, a week and a half ago, was prepared, as a first step, to go forward with a tax relief aimed only at those who earn the most. An average Swedish bank manager would receive SEK 560 000 per year in tax reduction while an average wage earner would receive zero SEK. With our proposal, everyone who works gets reduced tax with a maximum of 500 SEK per month. This strengthens municipalities' finances in the long term when it becomes more profitable to work. It creates greater opportunities to hold back municipal tax increases, and that is important. I must say, Madam President, that I am a little surprised by the speech.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-58	Madam President, I would like I don't know if it was a question, Jakob Forssmed, but a surprise you expressed. I can perhaps express my surprise that Jakob Forssmed now belongs to those who believe strongly in dynamic effects, because that is the conclusion of what I hear you say. If there was anything that distinguished the Social Democratic-led government during the last parliamentary term, it was the very large resources we gave to municipalities and county councils during the period. We also went to elections to further level it up in a rather tangible way. We have thus made great efforts, and we intend to make great efforts because we see municipalities and county councils as the welfare producers they are. When it comes to providing resources, the net impact on this area of expenditure is a much lower level of ambition than the one we have gone to elections on our part. We can get back to that. How Jakob Forssmed can claim that 15 billion in tax cuts to the most wealthy would be a fair distribution policy is completely incomprehensible to me. The newspaper headlines on the day the budget was published said that the winners of the budget were those who earn more than 42 000 kroner a month. For me, this is not a fair distribution policy. I find that argument very difficult to understand. As I said in my speech, we give priority to getting a government in place and not to making a napkin sketch as a draft budget that municipalities and county councils will try to govern. There are a lot of ambiguities in the proposal that will eventually appear in a clear light. I find it completely incomprehensible to prioritise tax cuts over resources for municipalities. It surprises me greatly that Jakob Forssmed can recommend it.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-63	Madam President, I would like I'll try to ask you some more questions. We have not anticipated dynamic effects. But Ingemar Nilsson cannot deny that there are, on the other hand, effects of increased driving forces to work. If so, it would be absolutely fascinating. Does Ingemar Nilsson think that greatly reducing taxes on labour does not increase the driving forces for work? So can you have any amount of taxes on labour without changing the driving forces? I would like an answer to these questions. Another question is: Is what Ingemar Nilsson said in his speech correct – that, on the contrary, there is a net weakening of the municipalities with our policy? Now you changed your mind in the speaker's chair and said it won't be as much. What's it gonna be? Is it a net reduction, or is it actually a billion-dollar subsidy to municipalities and county councils? These 15 billion that you are now saying should go to the very richest goes to everyone who works! Everyone who works gets a tax cut, while you were prepared to go forward with a tax relief only to the richest. Now you have several questions to answer.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-68	Madam President, I would like I'm still a little moved by Jakob Forssmed's concern for the bank manager. I did not quite understand that part of the speech. The difference is, Jakob Forssmed, that in this area of expenditure the net effect is in relation to the budget that you and the Moderates, supported by the Swedish Democrats, have presented a net impact of about 1 billion less than we had in the budget that we went to elections on. The net impact is about 31⁄2 billion; it is the increase in expenditure and not what it says. This is a consequence of the fact that you are cutting taxes quite substantially for pensioners as well. About 1 billion is the compensation for the tax cut for pensioners, which you must add to the area. Now I lost the second question that Jakob Forssmed had. But I return to stating that the priority for us has been to have a government, and a strong government, in place. It's more important to us than fighting for big tax cuts.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-72	Madam President, I would like First, I'll make a correction to a statement. We are investing EUR 5 billion and also compensation for the tax cuts that have been made. Then we'll have it sorted out. Ingemar Nilsson says that we could have waited to make a budget that the municipalities should live by. Given what the situation is right now, we should be happy that the municipalities can plan for their activities for next year. If you have been a municipal politician yourself, you know how difficult it is to plan activities when the guidelines from the national level are not clear. Therefore, it is important that this budget is put in place and that our municipalities do not have to wait maybe another six months before you are told how much money you have to dispose of. Ingemar Nilsson boasts a little bit about how much money the Social Democrats have put into welfare. The Social Democrats are unbridled masters in wasting tax money and in not having any effect from the investments. In fact, success is not measured in the number of wasted tax crowns, but in the effect of the money you put in. I wonder if Ingemar Nilsson is satisfied with the result of the government's efforts in, for example, health care, school or police. Everything's gone the wrong way. Then I turn to this that we should invest in the rich and not invest in welfare. Is Ingemar Nilsson most critical of the fact that we are reducing the tax on pensioners by the lowest pension – the pensioners for whom you did not want to reduce the tax? Or is it perhaps the tax cut for low-income earners that Ingemar Nilsson depends on? Or is it that we want to restore the dignity of the LSS and guarantee people in need of respiratory assistance and probe feeding personal assistance? Or is it perhaps that we think that cancer sufferers should not have to stand in the long care queues that have grown under the red - green government? Is it these things that Ingemar Nilsson bothers with when he thinks we are investing in the rich?
i-980db8b76e68bacc-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Ericson, for a series of questions! We'll see how many I have time to answer. I know many municipal politicians and was personally active in municipal politics during the eight years we had an alliance rule. There was no dancing on roses for the local politicians. That is quite clear. I would like to insist on the fact that the Social Democratic-led government provided enormous resources to the local government sector because there was an enormous need for it after the alliance years. In my world, hiring 100,000 more people in public service is not wasting tax money in general. But if it's Jan Ericson's picture, be it. For me, it is strengthening the welfare of having more employees in school and in health care, as we ensured during the last parliamentary term. It's not wasting tax money. Maybe we have different definitions of that. As far as tax cuts for pensioners are concerned, our ambition has been to put pensions and salaries on an equal footing. What the Alliance government introduced, with the so-called pensioner tax, was the difference between pension and salary. Now that we have restored the equality up to a level of SEK 17 000, it is equal pension and salary. In general, what this budget is proposing is further major tax cuts, the sixth job tax deduction. In order not to end up again in a deceitful debate with Sweden's pensioners, we must, of course, also reduce the tax on pensioners. That is the consequence of this, and it means that an additional 1 billion in compensation must be provided to the municipalities in order to compensate them for this policy. It is a question of reducing resources. As far as the LSS is concerned, I do not wish to comment on it much more than to note that there is a joint effort going on. No one is particularly pleased, but what is in this budget does not solve the problem facing the LSS issue. We have to come back to that, and for that we need a strong government and not a careless budget motion by Moderates and Christian Democrats supported by Swedish democrats.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-83	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Nilsson talks about the enormous resources that were added to the well-being. But the fact is, it didn't produce any results. If the goal was to shorten the care queues and the care queues have grown, have they succeeded? If the goal was to get better school results but the school results fell, did they succeed? Having more burnt - out employees in care for the elderly does not help to hire more, but it is something that does not work. Then you haven't been able to do what you wanted. If the police have become fewer and the unscrupulous crimes have become more numerous, it does not help that you have invested money, because you have not got any results. During the Alliance, care lines were shortened and we had more police officers. Now it has gone exactly the other way, despite more money. Then something's wrong. I wonder whether Ingemar Nilsson is concerned that we now have a situation in which pensioners with the lowest pensions actually have a little lower tax than the equivalent wage earners. Is there something that Ingemar Nilsson is very disturbed about?
i-980db8b76e68bacc-86	Madam President, I would like I'm not disturbed for a second by our pensioners having a good time. One can ensure that this is done in different ways, but the general tax reduction that Jan Ericson stands for undermines and frustrates the conditions for investing in public activities. The concern is that if you remove all tax revenue, you cannot afford to invest in welfare, which is exactly what we need to do. When it comes to the claim of care queues and fewer police officers, it is both true and untrue. We don't have fewer cops, but we need even more cops in place. Then we need public finances that allow us to finance an investment in the police instead of reducing taxes by another 15 billion that Jan Ericson and his party now want and which, in the short term, cannot do much about. The scope for investing in welfare has been reduced by another 15 billion. All you have to do is regret it. I hope that we will quickly have a strong government in place that will counteract the worst of the worst of these policies.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-89	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating general subsidies for municipalities. This is the largest area of expenditure in terms of the total amount, and it is therefore particularly important that the tax money is managed in a way that is in accordance with the will of the citizens. However, we do not have a request here today because our draft budget has fallen and therefore also the funding, but I will explain our policy in this area which could have become a reality with a Swedish democratic budget. First, the municipal financial compensation is adjusted with a corresponding increase in municipal tax revenue. This is the result of the abolition of an increased basic deduction for older people in favour of a changed job tax deduction. This new job tax credit also includes pension income, which eliminates the difference between pension income and labour income. This is fully in line with our view of retirement as a deferred income. We think it is fundamentally wrong to be taxed higher just because you are getting older. Another proposal from the Swedish Democrats is to strengthen the guarantee pension. Sweden currently has the highest number of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries, and they are expected to increase. It is an unacceptable situation, and it is therefore expected from this House that action will be taken. It should be possible to agree on this if you put aside the prestige and step out of the sandbox. A third suggestion from us is the increase in the ceiling of the unemployment fund. These are three reforms which are all necessary and which all increase the municipal tax revenue without raising the municipal tax rate. An increased municipal tax warned SKL for as late as last week because they would probably lead to people working less, which is quite logical because taxes control people's behavior. That is why we have taxes on things that we want to see less of, for example, alcohol and tobacco. Consequently, care should be taken to tax what we want to see more of, such as jobs. In the country with the world's already highest municipal taxes as a proportion of GDP, more people would start prioritising leisure time or benefits over jobs if municipal taxes were to be increased. But it is therefore possible to contribute to a high-quality municipal activity and, at the same time, to carry out the necessary reforms for several important groups in society, such as pensioners, unemployed and entrepreneurs, without increasing municipal taxes. Madam President, I would like In addition to the transitional government's funding, the Swedish Democrats have four more appropriations. I will not go into all these in detail, but we will have to read our special opinion if we are interested. But I would like to take this opportunity to say a few things about one of the reforms that are most dear to us and which we know many municipalities long for. Sweden currently has a situation in the public sector where more than one hundred thousand Swedes perform involuntary part-time work. It is men and women who want and can but who are not allowed to work full time. The majority of these hundred thousand part-time employees are women, making this one of our biggest gender equality problems. For some in this House, equality is equal to quotas for company boards, quotas for parental insurance and equal snow clearance. We have a gender equality authority that is our least equal authority with 100% women on the board. It is not a problem for me, but perhaps it should be for those who talk about quotas. I therefore expect everyone in this House to applaud the fact that the SD, M and KD are now tearing down this gender power regime. However, I firmly believe that the Swedish people are experiencing real problems in their everyday lives. This is particularly true of those who are the backbone of Swedish welfare, including part-time employees who find it difficult to reconcile everyday life. They may be forced to take a morning pass and an evening session with a several hours hole in the middle of the day without work. During this time they would have been able to give the elderly extra care or perhaps a possibility of social intercourse. This situation means not least a daily struggle for the single mother who works involuntary part-time work. It's hard to catch up with everything that's to be done with cooking, washing and homework. Add a sprawling and stressful work schedule, and you have all the conditions for burnout in place. Long-term part-time work also leads to lower career opportunities, lower wage development and lower future pensions. This is linked to what I started by talking about, that today's generation of part-unemployment unfortunately becomes tomorrow's poor pensioners. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that this is where the debate on gender equality should take place. This is where the real problems lie. Politicians in this House have for far too long ducked on these issues and passed on responsibility to the municipalities. With the facts in hand, we can see that it has not worked. With our proposal, more than one hundred thousand involuntary part-time workers will be able to go up to full-time, which will improve the quality of life of our sick and old and improve the welfare of all. That is why, as in previous years, we are taking the initiative to solve the problem here in this House by proposing a full-time right.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-103	Madam President, I would like I know everyone wants to go home and celebrate Christmas. I therefore promise to keep my speech brief, if the rest of you promise to listen. As former municipal councillor, it feels incredibly urgent to talk about and focus on the municipal sector. Since the Center Party has no claim, I will instead describe our main objection to the policy pursued. Madam President, I would like The responsibility for a large part of the most important political issues lies with municipalities, county councils and regions, as everyone here knows. If Sweden is to continue to function, municipalities, county councils and regions must also be given reasonable opportunities to function. The big problem today is that politicians at national level are prone to overly detailed governance of local politics. The Ministry of Finance's accounts show that for next year there are 204 targeted state grants to the local government sector – 204! You heard me right. That's completely unreasonable. Local councillors around the country tend to call it press release money a little disdainful. There are so many small, targeted state subsidies that really have only one purpose, namely that a minister should be able to write a press release. It's not worthy. In 2017, general state grants amounted to 102 billion and accounted for approximately 9 1⁄2 per cent of the municipal sector's total income. This compares with the targeted state subsidies. In fact, they were at 104 billion, i.e. more than the general ones in 2017. In addition, they had increased by SEK 9 billion from 2016 to 2017. Of course, responsibility for this rests heavily on the Red-Green Government. What problems does this really create? It has three major effects, which I will describe. The first and most obvious problem is that it leads to pure discrimination against small municipalities. One example is Vara Municipality, which happens to be a median municipality in Sweden in terms of population. They have about 15,900 inhabitants. Sweden has many small municipalities. Since it is a large and sparsely populated country, it is reasonable to have many municipalities. One example of targeted state grants is collaborative efforts for young people who are neither working nor studying. The grant is 18 million, to the whole of Sweden! It would give Vara Municipality 28,000 kronor per year if you knock it out. It's like everyone understands a stupid sum. What does this lead to in practice? Of course, the municipality of Vara will not apply for that grant. The administrative cost of applying will certainly exceed the income you would receive from the state grant. It becomes clear that the system of many and small targeted state grants is disadvantageous to the country's small municipalities, which are less well placed and less administratively able to apply for, carry out evaluations and other processes. All targeted state subsidies are extremely administratively complicated. At the same time, of course, the larger municipalities are looking for this money. For them, it is profitable to apply for state grants. The net effect is pure discrimination against small municipalities. Small ones do not receive any grants at all, but the larger ones receive a disproportionate share because the others do not apply. Madam President, I would like The Center Party does not think that Sweden can be governed in this way in the future. It's not worthy of a country that's trying to stick together. The second effect clearly seen from this system is that it counteracts directly necessary efficiency improvements in the municipal sector. Unfortunately, the local government sector has had a low degree of efficiency compared to other sectors of society for a long time. It shows a number of public investigations. By forcing municipalities to allocate human resources to administration and at the same time lock up new costs with temporary state subsidies, the necessary efficiency is being curbed by localised reforms that would rather be done at municipal level. Several studies, from SKL among others, also reveal huge challenges for the local government sector in the future in terms of managing funding. We all know that. If this is to work, it does not hold that the government uses such an inefficient control system as targeted government grants. The third effect is that this patchwork of targeted state subsidies reduces predictability for local politicians. In this way, municipal self-government is greatly discouraged. For many years, the Center Party has been defending local self-government. It is the very foundation of democratic society and has a history that is older than the Swedish state. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is working on the principle that targeted state grants should, as far as possible, be converted into general state grants. This was the focus of the Center Party's entire previous term of office and also in our budget exercise for 2019. There we have added EUR 5 billion more to the general state subsidies, in relation to the transitional government's budget proposal. General government grants are a fundamental principle if we are to achieve equal development across the country, if we are to create opportunities for efficiency and if we want to safeguard municipal self-government. Madam President, I would like Finally, I wish the President a really good Christmas and to avoid all the negotiations.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-121	Madam President, I would like During the year, it has been noted in various ways that it was 100 years since the universal suffrage was won in Sweden. It, together with the exceptional situation that the country has been in since the elections where all of us Members of Parliament in this House have failed in the task of setting up a new government, should for all parties be a measure of humility, sanity and reflection. What can we do better? How can we act? What can I do to do my part? Madam President, I would like Instead, however, the centenary is celebrated by the far right parties The Moderates and Christian Democrats together with the Swedish Democrats by creating chaos in government budget management. Order does not seem to be something that they themselves apply, but it is something that should only apply outside the Parliament building. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules are different from those of the servants. Others should learn sense and etiquette, but they themselves can act as irresponsible coup makers. One excuse after another has been highlighted in the debate to why it has chosen to deal with the economy, the very centre of politics, like this – this despite failure to form a government. The crisis democrats say they've taken away all the fun in the budget and put in everything that's really necessary. I don't know if they think that money that can make life a little easier for sick leavers, low incomers or students is at fun while 15 – 20 billion in tax cuts are serious stuff. It is not so fun not to have your own home or not to have money for milk at the end of the month. A personal favourite is otherwise this one that is repeated frantically: We see so many challenges and we are so worried that we cannot wait. Then everyone who is really thought that they must mean sick leave conditions, vulnerable children or at least a minor environmental disaster. But no, the anxiety that they carry so heavily on their shoulders and that can only not wait until a new government is formed is the concern that they feel about men of upper middle age living in luxury villas somewhere in Djursholm. Those who haven't lifted a finger in three generations just have to get their tax reduction fixed before Christmas break, otherwise it actually gets really hard. But chill, rich people in the inner city of Stockholm will be fine. It'll be Christmas for them this year too. But the single mother in the interior of Norrland will get it the tougher. The far right is full-fledged opposition to a government that they have hijacked. They cannot even take responsibility for what they have enforced, but now the government which they have deposed will continue to lead the country with the napkin sketch of the bourgeoisie. The Left Party was of the opinion that, during a transitional period, politics should be kept short and concerned with what is absolutely necessary until a new government takes office. When it is done, we can take on our role as either partner or opposition in full. During the previous term of office, we have contributed to increased maintenance support for single people, free glasses for children, increased housing allowances for the elderly and the largest investment in municipalities since the 90s through 10 extra billion. Madam President, I would like Instead, the budget that has now been passed will increase inequality between municipalities and within municipalities. The Moderates have Christmas tree looting before Christmas Eve and completely drain the public assets. For ordinary people, of course, it's a disaster. They plunder the welfare, and the money that could have gone to social services in Sollefteå or to combat unemployment in Söderhamn disappears into the pockets of rich Danderydsbor. They take away money that aims to create jobs for those who have been unemployed the longest and stop efforts to fight inequality in areas that have long been deprived. The pressure on municipalities will increase. According to them, the environment, unemployment, the security of the economy and of residential areas are nonsense. On the contrary, the vitals of life – hear and be amazed – the universal cure is huge tax cuts. Madam President, I would like To be honest, is there anything a Moderate can do without a tax subsidy? Can a moderate tie the shoes yourself or is it something for which we must take joint social responsibility? Is it possible for a moderate to vote or telephone, or must there be financial assistance for that too? Book a taxi car can't handle a moderate either, but also tax paying teachers, nurses and construction workers will pay. Life expectancy is lowest in municipalities where people have worked hard and worn themselves out, where you have had to fight and not get everything served on silver barrels. It is highest in municipalities with many sedentary capital owners. Gävleborg, my old home county, has the highest unemployment rate while those who collect RUT deductions live mainly in municipalities such as Lidingö, Danderyd and Vellinge. It is a long way from Söderhamn to Lidingö. So little is it unclear how the dismantling of everything related to a sensible labour market policy by Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats can be solved with even more RUT deductions. It can still be assumed that it is not the neighbours of Lidingö who will perform the RUT services. The fact that it is also a waste of common funds that could be used to create jobs and strengthen home services is deeply regrettable. And how many Danderyds may actually be needed to screw in a light bulb. Answer: No one can do it, so we have to take care of the poor with RUT deductions in the multimillion-dollar class. Madam President, I would like It's time to round off. After all, this is the last debate for Christmas. There are many of us who want to go home to our loved ones. At the same time, there are things that are hard to let go and that stick. In the same city live children who go on luxurious Christmas holidays to the other side of the world and children who do not go further than in the rent house playground. In municipalities bordering on each other in the metropolitan area, it can distinguish more than ten years in life expectancy between people. In the same country, there are those who cannot even afford to buy a Christmas present for their children, while others do not know what to buy, because their children already have everything. Madam President, I would like Let it sink in, as it is so popularly called. In doing so, I would like to refer to our special opinion, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-139	Madam President, I would like It was a very powerful language that Ida Gabrielsson used in the speaker's chair. In fact, I think it vulgarises the debate. Irresponsible coup d'état, outer right, chaos, looting of welfare – what is happening with the budget that Parliament is now deciding on? It is that resources are added to the well-being. It describes Ida Gabrielsson as a looting. I'm sure you'll get a lot of likes and retweets in your speech, given your rich language. But that's not true. There is no plundering of welfare when resources are added, when 31⁄2 billion goes out to the municipalities at the turn of the year, when another 5 billion is allocated to county councils and regions to cope with the care queue that has grown during the time you have had a budget cooperation with the Social Democrats. When we now take a decision on an announcement to quickly produce a legislative change so that people in need of LSS will receive it, so that low-income people will receive a tax relief so that they can buy milk by the end of the month, so that the most vulnerable pensioners will have a reinforcement of housing allowances – these are important things that we are now implementing. I understand that you can be critical of things in this budget, but to describe it as an external right-wing policy is completely unrealistic. I have two questions for Ida Gabrielsson. Does Ida Gabrielsson believe that the Riksdag owns the financial authority and has the right to make decisions on the budget and thus also amend the budget? Were you in the Left Party prepared to release a prime minister and a government whose first measure would be to reduce the tax only for those who serve the most in Sweden?
i-980db8b76e68bacc-144	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Jakob Forssmed for his contributions and questions to me. He seems to be very up in the gas himself, but maybe that's the way it is for the Christmas holidays. Of course, the Left Party will always give priority to efforts to strengthen well-being and a greater opportunity to create equality within municipalities before tax cuts for the richest. You are highlighting some worthy reforms that you can find if you look well in your budget. Jakob Forssmed wants to somehow conceal that the biggest so-called investment in the bourgeois budget is the investment in people living in Vellinge. Danderyd and Lidingö. It's a bet on them with the thickest wallet. These tax cuts go to high-income earners and the very richest. Madam President, I would like I am sorry to have to say this, but small and totally inadequate spending on metering for disabled people or on the poorest pensioners will not be able to hide the fact that you are lowering the tax on the richest.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-147	Madam President, I would like You have to look, says Ida Gabrielsson. Maybe you need to do that. It is, however, about 10 billion in general contributions. In 2019 it is 5 billion in a general addition, and in the years after that it is 10 billion. The Left Party usually describes such things as saving well-being, that the jobs come in the local government sector and that people in elderly care and school have more colleagues. This is certainly not water worth it because we are the ones who are putting forward the proposal. I find it difficult to understand the logic of saying that these are small things and that you have to look in the budget. We are making huge efforts to ensure that Sweden has a well-being to trust. In addition, there is performance-based support for focus on care queues and for people to receive care on time. This is so important. Ida Gabrielsson did not answer the question. Was the Left Party prepared to release a government whose first measure had been to lower the tax only for the very richest?
i-980db8b76e68bacc-151	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed does not answer why the biggest investment in the budget of the out-right parties, which involves a tax cut of up to 20 billion mainly to the very richest, would make it better for people in need of LSS or for elderly people in need of retirement homes or an increased pension. Jakob Forssmed is welcome to discuss initiatives like this. We are absolutely prepared to talk about it with the Christian Democrats, but they are not interested in investing in common welfare. They will always and at all times give priority to tax cuts for the very richest before joint efforts on those most in need. It is easy to see this in your budget. You don't even have to read for long.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-153	Madam President, I would like I agree with all of Jakob Forssmed's contributions, but I will make a few more small cuts. I am fascinated by how a left-wing party member can stand in Parliament's pulpit and express himself in the way Ida Gabrielsson does. I do not understand at all the language used when you call other parties irresponsible coupsmen when they present their own politics in their own motion in Parliament. So you're a coup d'état? Ida Gabrielsson boasted in her speech about investments of 10 billion to the municipalities and said that it was a record contribution to welfare. When we invest EUR 5 billion this year and EUR 10 billion in the coming years, it is all of a sudden inadequate and not worth anything. It's called looting of welfare. Logic has never been the strong point of left-wing parties, but this was really a bottom-up. I would also like to point out to Ida Gabrielsson that we do not have any proposals in our budget for reducing compensation to anyone. There is nothing in our budget about that. On the other hand, the single mother, whom Ida Gabrielsson cares about, receives lower taxes. If she works in health care, she can also get more colleagues with the help of the money we provide the municipalities. I wonder if Ida Gabrielsson is satisfied with the enormous shortcomings that exist within the LSS. Why has the Left Party not acted to do anything about them? Through our budget, we add money. It will be SEK 350 million in 2019 and SEK 700 million in the following year to ensure that the most vulnerable can receive the assistance they need. Is this betting on the rich? I have one concrete last question. It is the same question that Jakob Forssmed asked and to which he did not receive an answer. Will the Left Party release a Social Democratic government that promises to abolish the military tax? I want a yes or no in answer to the question.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-159	Madam President, I would like Jan Eric's son and previous speakers have a lot of questions about the defense tax. It feels like they've started to fight a lot to get rid of it. It would be good if they brought this up with their colleagues in the Alliance, so it might be possible. We are not interested in such a tax cut, as I am sure Jan Ericson understands.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-160	Let me get back to your other so-called questions, Jan Ericson. I think we should wait with the fairy tales and Kalle Anka for Christmas Eve. We have invested 10 extra billion in the municipalities. It is not about such small adjustments as you do in your draft budget when you are maximizing. Of course, you could spend more money on single mothers in the interior of Norrland or on economically vulnerable in the suburbs of Stockholm if you did not choose to spend around 15 billion on tax cuts for the richest. That goes without saying. This money you have chosen instead to send straight to cuts instead of using it for efforts to equalize inequalities between municipalities and between people within the same municipality.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-162	Madam President, I would like I understand the defense tax is a pain in the ass for the Left Party. I'm just curious, though. I asked a straight and concrete question but still have not received an answer. I can only say that the Left Party is prepared to release a Social Democratic government which abolishes the military tax. That's interesting to know. It may also be interesting for many other parties to receive such an answer. We may have to take that as a promise from the Left Party. It gets a little weird when Ida Gabrielsson says that when the Left Party invests 10 billion it is about extra money that can be used for welfare. However, when the Alliance invests SEK 5 or 10 billion in its various draft budgets, it is called mere trimmings. The same 10 billion is a giant bet when the Left Party makes it but a slight correction when other parties make it. It's still 10 billion, that is the same money. Ida Gabrielsson continues to speak untruth from the speaker's seat. She talks about cuts when we invest more money. More money is not cutbacks. I don't know if Ida Gabrielsson has problems with the language. This is the case, however; it is not a cut but a bet.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-165	Madam President, I would like Not all these misunderstandings can be resolved. Maybe we'll have a coffee afterwards before the train leaves. What we will certainly do then, when the chaos has settled, is either to pursue our policy in cooperation or in opposition. Then it will not be about bets that the Moderates and the other outer right parties adopt in their budget. It will be about real investments in people who are most in need of them. It will certainly not be a question of reducing taxes on the richest. Instead, we will use this money in reforms that smooth out the differences between people in municipalities and between municipalities. We will be able to debate that next year.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-168	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! There is a feeling among Sweden's citizens that welfare does not deliver. We see how school doesn't manage to make it possible for all children to vent their potential. We see that every sixth young person leaves comprehensive school without a complete grade and thus does not qualify for upper secondary school. We see growing care queues where people do not receive care on time when they call their health centre or receive care on time when they are waiting for an operation of the knee or hip. It is a growing frustration among welfare workers. Teachers, nurses and people who work in care feel that they do not have enough time and that they are not allowed to do what they are trained to do. The administration is growing. There's a feeling of over-bureaucracy. People have trained to do something but must not use their time at work to meet patients or students. In recent years we have seen cuts in the LSS, which means that those who need the support of society most do not get the support they need. People who are in need of social support and who do not manage their everyday lives without society being there will see how society betrays them and see how politics does not deliver and live up to the expectations they have. Madam President, I would like That is why we in the Liberals in our shadow budget are making clear proposals to ensure that welfare works better. It's about school. We say, for example, that new arrivals must go to school further. Those who come to Sweden in the age of 12 to 13 cannot be expected to learn Swedish or learn to count in two or three years, but they need more years. It is about those who come to Sweden when they are very small and about parents who come to Sweden. Children should be given the opportunity to attend preschool, where they learn Swedish at an early age. And Mom and Dad can come out and work. We want to raise the importance of mathematics in school by clearly saying that we want more hours of teaching in mathematics. It is important for children and young people to learn more. And it is important for our country, which is traditionally an engineering country, that we are good at mathematics. It is about investments and investments in health care. We go forward with a queue billion, and we have targeted efforts to get more specialist nurses in health care. When hospitals in Lund and Malmö close departments and do not perform operations, not because there is a shortage of doctors, but because there are no nurses who want to work that very day and because they have given up frustration over poor working conditions, it is a testimony that welfare and health care do not deliver on the basis of what we as citizens can expect. The answer to this must be to try to resolve this clearly by raising the status of the nursing profession, including by having more career paths for the nurses that exist and by more people being able to further educate themselves at work. For this, the Liberals set aside money. Madam President, I would like The fact that welfare works is the basis for people to feel secure. Security is important for people to feel freedom. When welfare does not live up to the expectations people feel, it creates a society where not everyone gets the chance and where people lose confidence in politics. Nothing is more important than that welfare delivers and lives up to the expectations people have. That is why we need to invest in welfare, and that is what is found in the Liberals' budget options.
i-WoSJKyp4UsFBDHxUeuWu5S	Madam President, I would like The budget proposal submitted to Parliament on 15 November 2018 was decided by a transitional government. Specific principles were therefore applied in the formulation of the bill, where the starting point was the budget decided by the Riksdag for 2018. Since, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the Riksdag of 12 December 2018 endorsed other expenditure frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the transitional government, and which we believe must be considered as a whole, we are abstaining from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 25. We refer to our specific opinion, which we have together with S and V. Much has been said about the principles of a transitional budget. I do not feel I need to repeat it at the moment, but I would like to emphasise that a transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It does not address the major societal problems of new reforms. Nor is it intended to do so. It is available to ensure that important social functions, welfare and authorities function in the same way as before. It is needed to create stability and is precisely a transitional budget pending the entry into office of a government and the presentation of its own economic policy, which I hope can be achieved shortly. But since a government is not yet in place and I have the opportunity to talk about a few things in this great and important area. Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing well, but we have major challenges ahead of us. We must live more sustainably. In addition to the climate crisis, one of the biggest challenges is that people should have a good life and feel safe. Part of it, which is within the remit we are discussing today, is to create good and equal conditions for people regardless of the municipality in which they live. It is in the municipalities our residents live and where many depend on the service and assistance that we have built up over the years when the welfare society has developed. It is within the finances of municipalities that large parts of Swedish welfare can be accommodated – it is about basic areas such as healthcare, care and school. Today we have surpluses in most of the municipalities and county councils, but some do not meet their financial commitments, and we see significant difficulties in the future. It is serious and is in danger of affecting the people who live there. Madam President, I would like The Red Green Government took this very seriously and provided historic sums of welfare billions, but we see that even more will be needed in the future. As more and more people get older, more staff are needed in health care, and when children become more in preschool and school, more educators and adults are needed. But they don't just have to be more. They also need good working conditions with working hours that you can live with and pay that you can live on. The people who work in welfare are one of the most important resources that we have, and we must take care of them. Since the start of the Red-Green Government, some 100,000 extra workers have been employed in welfare. It has been necessary, but we see an increased need in the future. In order for those who work with our children, the sick and the elderly not to burn themselves out, we need both more staff and more resources. We see that mental illness, often stress-related and linked to working life, is still large. Then it is important to review the working hours of those who work in the care sector. There, employees often experience stress, excessive time pressure and poor working hours. At the same time, many part - time workers want a full - time service. We in the Green Party are behind everyone's right to full-time while we believe that it should be possible to work part-time for everyone who needs to increase flexibility in life. This applies, in particular, to parents of young children and older people who are approaching retirement. We therefore made a choice to introduce the possibility of a step-by-step reduction in working time for older workers in welfare. But we do not only see that this needs to be done. The shortage of staff in certain health professions is widespread. Therefore, it is extremely important for a continued strong welfare to expand educational places to meet the needs of healthcare. Madam President, I would like I also want to say something about the LSS. The judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court in recent years have led to a practice in which many users have lost their state assistance compensation. LSS needs to be clarified so that people really get the support they are entitled to. We went to elections to shoot at 1 billion annually to the LSS to realize this. For the Green Party, it is clear that the aim of the revision that is now taking place is that we should be able to return to the case law that applied before, among other things, the judgment on self-care came in 2012. All variants of probe feeding and breathing aids should be seen as basic needs and thus give the right to personal assistance. There are more people who want to do things in this area in the future. I welcome that, because it is absolutely necessary. Having said that, briefly, on a huge area in the state budget, I would like to conclude by stating that there is much to do. I hope to return shortly with a coherent economic policy that provides the conditions for long-term sustainability for the municipalities, because it is an important part of the development of a stronger Sweden.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-189	Madam President, I would like It is possible to agree with many of the points raised by Janine Alm Ericson in her speech on important things we need to do in the municipalities. However, the same question I put to Ida Gabrielsson earlier comes up again. You have invested quite a lot of money in the local government sector, but nevertheless the results have gone in the wrong direction. Despite the fact that the municipalities have received increased state subsidies and we have had a boom and very good tax revenue in recent years, we have problems. The care queues are longer. More people than before are waiting for cancer treatment. We've got worse school scores. We've got fewer cops. We have more unsolved crimes and so on. Despite this, Janine Alm Ericson says that we will now solve all the problems by presenting a new budget with more money for the municipalities. How will Janine Alm Ericson guarantee that this time the money will solve the problems you have not solved for the last four years?
i-980db8b76e68bacc-192	Madam President, I would like Now I talked more on the basis of a general condition and not on the basis of my own suggestion. I can also say that even in the budget now passed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, there are additions to these very areas. I assume, therefore, that even the Moderates and Christian Democrats see that increased resources are probably part of what will have to be done to solve the challenges that exist. At the same time, we must see that the problems in the municipalities, regions and county councils with queues in healthcare and that people feel that they do not receive the care they are entitled to is a major problem for all of us. But it's not just fixed by a little snap with your fingers and a little more money. It is, of course, an area that has been neglected for a long time, where we have seen under-financing and too little money. There has been too little training and too little investment in, for example, the work environment, which has meant that those in these welfare professions have not been able to cope or want to stay. It is extremely clear that we must do a great deal in addition to simply providing resources, and we also have proposals for that. But right now we are actually talking about the state financial contribution for municipalities and county councils to be able to manage their commitments. I am absolutely convinced that all our municipalities and county council politicians out there do not want anything more than to get a straight look at what we are seeing today going in the wrong direction. That, however, is not all. Several things look better than they've done in a long time. More police officers will be trained, and school results will be strengthened, for example.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-196	Madam President, I would like We often talk about resources and how to spend more money. But the problem is that you also have to give the right priority and put the resources on the right things. That is what we are trying to do in our budget, where we are making changes to the large transitional budget. We simply re-prioritise, remove things that have not produced results, and instead spend that money on other things where we think they will have a greater impact. When it comes to the care queues, we tried during the alliance years to shoot at a queue billion. It had its flaws, but it actually reduced the queues. When you removed the queue billions, the queues increased again, which shows that if you bet on the wrong things you have no effect. Now we are putting forward a new such proposal to try again to reduce queues. That is where I think we need to have the discussion: what are we doing that is effective? It is not just about ending the most money, it is about doing the right things with the money we use.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-200	Madam President, I would like I can certainly agree with Jan Ericson that it is important that we prioritise the right things and evaluate the work that is being done. During the time of the queue billions there was a major debate out in Sweden's county councils and regions. The queues were abbreviated in the beginning, but did people receive care and become healthier? Nevertheless, the final result of resource supply must be about freshness and not about queues, and perhaps we did not see the results that we wanted either. Some adjustments have been made in this area. But when you look at the priorities in general of where you put resources and of what is important, we can note that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats do not at all address the climate and environment challenge that we also see as necessary in order to build a stronger Sweden.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-203	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Autumn 2018 will be remembered for a prolonged and so far unfortunately failed government formation. But many people are more concerned about insecurity, police shortages and poor school scores than about who is going to be Prime Minister. The criminal gangs have not taken a break because Sweden lacks government, and the care queues have not disappeared. Sweden cannot afford to wait for important changes in policy. We have a transitional government but, as I said, not a transitional holiday. It is the parliament that is responsible for deciding on the state budget, and now the state budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats has been adopted. It's not a coup, although the Left Party seems to think so. The red-green government has been unbridled champions in wasting our tax money. But success is measured, not in the number of crowns spent, but in results. We are now removing pointless expenditure and re-prioritising it. At the same time, it is important to remember that the decided state budget is based on the transitional budget presented earlier this autumn, with a number of changes agreed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Of course, in a budget motion of about 30 pages that corrects the large transitional budget of 3 000 pages, you cannot include everything. At present, we cannot do more than the savings and efforts that can be made without major legislative changes and that our authorities are also able to manage. So what we have done in our budget motion is to propose things that can be done at short notice. Nevertheless, we have managed to get an impressive amount. These are tax cuts for pensioners and wage earners, efforts to strengthen the welfare of municipalities, more resources for shorter care queues and greater security for those who need personal assistance. In addition, resources for police, customs and defence are increasing. At the same time, there are a lot of letters and declarations of intent in our budget motion, things that we want to deal with as soon as we hopefully can form a government. Then all our election promises can come true. Madam President, I would like An important part of our budget is our spending on welfare. For most people, well-being is in practice often the very activity you meet daily at home in your municipality or county council. The economic situation of the local government sector is therefore one of our most important political issues. When the Alliance took office in 2006, it was after a number of years where the local government sector showed large deficits. In fact, during the reign of the Alliance in 2006 – 2014, there was a balance between costs and revenues in the local government sector, despite the deep financial crisis. We managed to do this by making big extra money for the welfare. In the last four years of an S-government, we have had a strong boom and high tax revenues. Despite this, we have had several years of new imbalances for municipalities where tax revenue was not sufficient for needs. At present, the situation is under control; in 2017 most municipalities even managed to report surpluses. But then, as I said, we should remember that we have had a strong boom with good tax revenues and that temporary money for the reception of new arrivals temporarily strengthened the economy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Municipalities and County Council recently presented their financial report. The warning signals are clear. The costs in municipalities are predicted to increase significantly faster than revenue. I'm going to go over five main reasons for this, according to SKL. Firstly, the cost of financial assistance increases. The main reason is that an increasing number of new arrivals become dependent on the provision of grants when they leave the start-up assignment without moving on to work. When the state's supply of new arrivals ends, the costs will be passed on to the municipalities. Secondly, the costs incurred by municipalities as a result of housing shortages increase. In the absence of ordinary housing for various vulnerable target groups, social services must resort to expensive, short-term housing solutions. The reasons for the housing shortage are several, but two reasons stand out: There are more young people who want to leave home, and a large number of new arrivals need housing. Third, the Government reduced the compensation to the municipalities for unaccompanied children and young people from mid-2017. According to Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, this has resulted in annual deficits in the billion-dollar category of municipalities. Fourthly, there is a call for increased costs within individual and family care. These include increased drug abuse among young people, more complaints about larger sibling groups, more cases of honour-related violence and violence in close relationships, and more complex placements of children and young people. All this costs a lot of money. Fifthly, municipalities have a great demographic pressure, as both the group of young people and the group of older people are increasing. Some municipalities are wrestling with large and growing pension debts. The situation of the Landstingen and the regions is even more strained. Costs continue to increase rapidly, while the development of the tax base slows down. Despite the boom, five county councils and regions reported deficits in 2017, and in other county councils they have had to raise the tax. Madam President, I would like Overall, the situation is worrying for Sweden's municipalities and county councils. The state budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats decided by the Riksdag means an extra investment next year of 3 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities and 1 1⁄2 billion to county councils and regions. It is absolutely crucial to strengthening welfare. The next year will be additional money – more than we set aside for 2019. These include investments in smaller children's groups in preschool, more teaching time in primary school, a ten-year primary school, building more retirement homes, investing in dementia care and quality development of home care, a new queue billion to shorten care queues, investment in cancer care and, not least, re-imposed dignity in LSS, where people in need of respiratory help and probe feeding will of course receive the help they need. Our reforms and efforts are extremely important and a step towards better welfare and better priorities. At the same time, it is important to point out that it is not possible to save the welfare of municipalities and county councils only through tax increases or increased state subsidies. Reforms are needed for more people in work, reduced dependency on benefits and a much better control of costs and priority so as to increase the welfare of each tax chandelier. Some of this requires new laws and regulations from the government and parliament, others are at municipal level and require courageous and clear municipal politicians. If there is anything concrete I would like to strike a punch in this speech, it is the supply of human resources in the field of health and long-term care. We know that staff are getting older and that recruitment is difficult. If we are to manage staffing in the future, we must improve working conditions, the working environment, scheduling, staff density, salaries and ob-reimbursement. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats allow municipalities and county councils to take important steps in this direction. It can also be noted that a significant part of the reasons for the strained situation in our municipalities are directly linked to the widespread reception of new arrivals in recent years. It shows how important it is not to go back to the previous unsustainable migration policy. The parties that are pushing for us to go back to the old regulations do not take responsibility for welfare. We must be very clear about this in the debate. Madam President, I would like When I entered the Riksdag in 2006, one of the first questions I was engaged in was to introduce an opportunity for an equalisation reserve for municipalities and county councils where you could save surpluses from good years to cover costs when times got worse. As a municipal politician, I had seen for myself how it became hopeful between the years when one had to make panic savings in order to make ends meet. I finally got to see my proposal come true. Since 2013, there is this possibility, and SKL's report tells us that there are currently 139 municipalities with a total of 13 billion in earnings compensation reserve. These reserves can be very valuable to safeguard well-being and prevent panic savings when times get worse. With a wise policy, there is the possibility that more municipalities can spend more money next year and thus cope with the coming recession better than you would otherwise have done. Our budget provides a good basis for this. Madam President, I would like With these words, I thank you for the floor and wish the President-in-Office, not least the fantastic staff of the Committee on Finance and my committee colleagues, a truly merry Christmas and a happy New Year!
i-980db8b76e68bacc-229	Madam President, I would like We are experiencing major welfare problems and have done so in recent years. Even though there is an aid decision, elderly people in great need of a retirement home may wait far too long in that place. We have municipalities that feel compelled to invest a lot in guardians because we have a huge police shortage that keeps investigations high. Not least, we have over 93 000 people who have been illegally in line for a long time waiting for treatment or surgery. That is the reality we have. As Mats Persson points out, people begin to feel weakened trust in welfare. I think that is deeply problematic to keep society together over time. That is why we must now make major efforts to improve welfare. That is also one reason why we chose to come forward with a joint draft budget – in order to get reforms and resources in place in order to start a turnaround in the development of care and, not least, in health care. We are now adding great resources to our welfare. Next year we will add 3 1⁄2 billion extra to the country's 290 municipalities. The years thereafter increase to 7 billion per year. That is, of course, extremely important. It will make a real difference for everyone who works hard in welfare and for all the elderly and families with children who need the welfare for life to work. It will also take the additional efforts we make to reduce children's groups to make. We are increasing support for reducing children's groups by 50% so that more people who want it can make efforts to bring down the size of children's groups so that all children are seen. In addition, we are investing a billion in retirement homes to enable more elderly people to have a place in special housing or shelters with community opportunities, so that they can also break the loneliness that is widespread among older people. We strengthen the possibility for pensioners to demand this type of housing through reduced tax on pensions but also through increased housing allowance. We are investing heavily in health care. Next year, 5 billion, 1 1⁄2 billion will be added in general support for quality improvement and in addition two queue billions to re-focus on short-term care queues, which are not only harmful to those who do not receive treatment on time but also affect the ability of companies and the public sector to get back skilled employees. We are also committed to starting a strategy for equal care. We see that the care is very unequal, that it can be life-decisive in which county council or which region you happen to live. We must now deal with this. We are extending and improving the cancer strategy, and we are committed to strengthening primary care in the coming years precisely in order to improve first-line healthcare, which is a key to an overall improvement in health care. We also see the municipalities' need for skills provision, which is so important for them to fulfil their mission. There will be more training places. Regional vocational training provides resources. We do a nursing lift so that we facilitate the further training of a specialist nurse that is so important. We also lower taxes so that it pays better to go through this type of training. It will also be very important for more treatments and more surgery to take place. We are also removing the special wage tax imposed by the Red-Green Government on older workers. Instead, the employer is given more opportunities to offer these people better conditions at the end of their working life so that they choose to stay for a few more years. It can be part of the solution to get experienced social secretaries, nurses and teachers to want to stay in the labour market for a few extra years when we have such great skills needs in the municipal and county councils sector. Not least, we create better conditions for municipalities, county councils and regions in the long term. We provide these resources, which dampens the demands for increases in municipal tax. We know that it is very harmful to hours worked. That is why it needs to be curbed by state subsidies and not least by lowering taxes for everyone who works so that we benefit work, so that it becomes a little more profitable to work. Thus, we strengthen the municipalities' ability to fulfil their extremely important mission in the long term. We have major welfare problems, which I started with. However, I am pleased that the Riksdag is today actually making decisions on additional resources but also on sensible reforms to start work on reversing the development of welfare. We need to do that now, and that is the work that we are now – no matter what government it becomes – are better placed to do. We are providing historic resources for health care and well-being, and we are doing so because this is what plays a role in people's everyday lives: getting care on time, getting assistance when you need it, getting a place in retirement homes, and actually there is time for preschool staff to see every child left in the morning.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-242	Madam President, I would like There are no specific opinions or reservations here, so this risks becoming less of a debate and perhaps more of a monologue. Nevertheless, I wanted to highlight some concerns about the Swedish EU levy. In this connection, I will also put two questions to the two government options that exist. Question one is linked to the social pillar and social rights within the EU. I myself was at the European Summit in Gothenburg and heard the leaders of the Eastern European nations say almost man-made that the financing of social rights in Eastern Europe must be resolved through the EU budget, solidarity between the Member States. My simple question to the two government options available is: are you prepared to contribute to the fact that Sweden's EU contributions will significantly increase in the future in order to fund social rights in, for example, less developed Eastern European nations? My second question is more linked to the announced sharp increase in Sweden's EU contribution. There has been talk of up to SEK 15 billion extra as a result of Brexit and the new long-term budget that is currently being negotiated. Are the intended government options prepared to use the Swedish veto against greatly increased Swedish EU fees? These are two very simple, distinct questions, and it is possible for the representatives of the two government options to sign up for the list of speakers and give audiences, Members and other answers to them. Madam President, I would like The framework grant for 2019 is on breathtaking SEK 40.9 billion for Sweden. In terms of the estimated fee development for Sweden, the forecast is SEK 47.8 billion for 2020, i.e. an increase of 17%. For 2021, the fee is estimated at SEK 53.8 billion – an increase of as much as 31 per cent in two years. Then everyone thinks it's the 15 billion I'm talking about, but that's not the case. It is above all a matter of backwardness within some of the programmes that the EU has decided on. Then there can be another 15 billion, and so on. At the same time, all the signs indicate that we are now entering a recession, at least at the end of this term of office. I have a problem with this. In fact, the EU levy is very little affected by the economic situation. All of us here who have been members of the municipal council or similar or worked at county level or here in Parliament know that the entire Swedish state administration, the entire county administration and all municipalities are affected by the economic situation – no reform space, savings, cuts. However, almost nine tenths of the Swedish EU contribution can be attributed to our share of the EU's total budget and is very little affected by the economic situation. While, in all parts of Swedish society, we have to cut back and make savings when we are entering a recession, we are therefore in danger of greatly increasing EU charges. We will have less health care, less education and less security in Sweden, while more money goes to the EU. This is something I find difficult to reconcile with. The questions were therefore very simple: Are the two government options prepared to use the Swedish veto against greatly increased Swedish EU fees? Are you prepared to use the EU budget in future to finance the social pillar and social rights in the rest of the EU? This would mean greatly increased EU contributions for Sweden and Sweden's taxpayers.
i-980db8b76e68bacc-251	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by greeting the House from the President, who unfortunately cannot be here today for family reasons. I am pleased to be the first Vice-President to give the closing speech to all of you in this House. It is now time to round off and sum up one autumn as no one else in the Swedish parliament and in Swedish politics. When I was elected First Vice-President on 24 September, I thought that autumn could bring about some new political events, and that is probably the case. One example is the fact that Sweden has had a transitional government throughout the autumn, which of course has also affected the work of the Riksdag. The number of proposals has been strikingly low, neither written questions nor interpellations have been answered and no topical debates have been held. Despite this, committee work has started, and parliamentary debates have taken place. The general political debate lasted 21 hours in total, and it broke a new record with 197 participants, of which 47% were new members. During the last week's budget debates, too, there have been many hours of chamber debates with old and new members in the speaker's chair. I would also like to address those of you who are new Members in particular. We in the Presidium of Presidents have seen how you have taken on your important mission with both zeal and commitment in this House and in the committees. I have had the pleasure of listening to some of you when I chaired meetings in this House, and I have often been impressed by well-prepared and well-spoken maiden speeches during the general political debate or budget debates. The role of a Member is not simple, but being a Member of Parliament is one of the finest positions of trust in our country. It offers great opportunities to work with issues you are passionate about, but it also means a great responsibility and obligations. Although this autumn has been special, I hope that those of you who are new feel that you have started to get started in the mission and that you enjoy your new role. Ladies and gentlemen! When we, as representatives of the Parliament, meet the citizens, democracy is a given theme for our talks and our messages. On Monday, Parliament's celebration of the breakthrough of democracy was inaugurated 100 years ago. It was a very nice day, and I look forward to future activities. As you know, our anniversary is going on until January 2022 – 100 years after the first women took place in the Swedish Parliament. The whole Presidency Presidency will be active in the democratic anniversary, and I hope that we will all meet in the various activities and that we can all contribute and bring this out around the country. Finally, I would like to thank all of you for your work in Parliament this unusual political autumn. On behalf of the President and myself, I would also like to thank our Vice-Presidents, the group leaders and members of the parliamentary board for their very good cooperation. Of course, I would also like to extend warm thanks to our new Parliamentary Director Ingvar Mattson and to all members of Parliament's administration for their excellent cooperation during the autumn. Above all, I wish you all a really good and restful Christmas and a happy new year.
